ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u4	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Education and the Minister for European Affairs will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for the timing, given the live television in progress, which is three minutes for the honourable Member, three minutes for the Minister and two minutes for the reply. Senator Pharaoh has the right to explain question 3-02132 on the involvement of the army in the distribution and administration of vaccines against Covid-19, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u5	Minister, let us say for months that the most effective means of defeating the cursed covid-19 coronavirus, in order to overcome the health emergency and recover from the terrible economic crisis we are facing is the vaccine. We have already said this and now new vaccines have been tested and, precisely because new, they need extraordinary awareness among citizens in our country, which will have to be even more effective to overcome the shameful, constant and continuous campaign of no-vax against this instrument. We are experiencing a period in which we have already experienced, Minister, the sole implementation of the influenza vaccine and we have verified that there are already enormous difficulties in organizing it. Now, in a few weeks - this is the goal of anti-Covid vaccination - we need to achieve flock immunity and, to do this, Minister, we need to vaccinate at least 40 million Italians. And all of this will have to happen in no time. It is only with the immunity of flocks that we have been able, over the years, to defeat polio, smallpox and other diseases. And it is only with the immunity of flock that we will be able to guarantee all people who will not be able to vaccinate, because they are subjected to chemotherapy and, therefore, immunodepressed. This is what we must constantly explain. Mass vaccination is primarily for those people. Of course, in order to do all this, to vaccinate 40 million Italians, at least, in a few weeks, there is a need for an extraordinary commitment and we cannot rely only on those we have entrusted with the vaccination of influenza: ASL and basic doctors. We need an extraordinary commitment and today's question time, Minister, is addressed to you, because we believe that a very important role must be played by the Army: for its facilities and its use, barracks, as well as for the distribution and administration of the vaccine. We don't ask if you're ready, because the Army is ready by definition. We do not ask for your commitment, because we trust your commitment, Minister. We ask you what you are doing materially to achieve such an impressive organization. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is right, before we go into the subject of today's debate, to reiterate that, from the very first days of the emergence of the emergency, the armed forces have provided their contribution, expressing diversified capacities that have been put - and are - at the disposal of the community, and will continue to do so, responding to the needs and needs of the country with a continuous and constant presence at the service of the citizens. That said, it is hardly the case to point out that, in order to deal with the current health emergency, the military, health and non-health personnel are continuing to pursue - as the questioner points out - a great commitment with dedication, professionalism and a spirit of service. I would like to take this opportunity once again, thinking of interpreting the honourable Member from this point of view, to thank our women and our men in uniform for the work they have been doing since the beginning of the pandemic. [[Applause]] Currently they are engaged, among others, 1400 military for the operation of 200 drive through, able to run up to 30,000 swabs per day. To this must be added the daily work and the commitment of the personnel employed in diagnostic laboratories in Taranto and Ancona, in field hospitals and at military hospitals in Milan and Celio. In the current emergency phase, with regard to the subject of the questioner, the guide and the coordination of the process aimed at the distribution and administration of anti-Covid-19 vaccines, are at the head of the Ministry of Health, as regards the definition of the strategic plan, and of the extraordinary commissioner, Dr Domenico Arcuri, for the definition of the organizational logistic aspects, in particular related to the processes of distribution, conservation and administration of vaccines, fundamental for the realization of the strategic plan itself. The Defense has participated, since its establishment, in the inter-sectoral working group of the Ministry of Health on vaccines and vaccinations against Covid-19, established by directorial decree of 4 November 2020, and works permanently with the extraordinary commissioner who - for example - is meeting the commander of the Operation Command interforce, under whose direction all the missions of the Defense fall, including those related to the current health emergency. In this framework of coordination, the Defense - as it has always done since the beginning of the pandemic - provides and will provide all the support required by the authorities prepared in terms of helping the Armed Forces to distribute and administer the vaccine to the Italian population. In this light, the Operation Command interforce has already started the planning process, which will foresee - with regard to the contribution to the distribution of the vaccine - the use, if deemed necessary by the aforementioned authorities, of the logistic infrastructures and the transport facilities of the Armed Forces; regarding the administration, the widening and the transformation of the network of drive through present throughout the territory; finally, for possible specific needs, such as - for example - the intervention at the residential garrisons for the elderly, the composition of mobile health teams ready if necessary. The Defense is therefore ready to respond with all its resources of staff, means and structures to the needs that will be represented by the competent authorities, as it has done with professionalism and dedication since the beginning of the pandemic emergency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u7	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply. I had no doubt that there were, on the part of the armed forces of our country, a willingness and an organization suitable to face a challenge that shakes the wrists, because vaccinating millions of Italians in a few weeks will not be easy at all. It will be necessary to do so in uncrowded places, in order to avoid further infection; then a second call will be needed. Therefore, mobilization will be huge and your role will be indispensable. I am therefore satisfied with your reply. Of course, we owe this to those who cannot vaccinate, Minister. Many of us can choose whether to vaccinate or not; but there are many women and many men immunodepressed or subjected to chemotherapy who will not be able to choose and will be in the same condition as the elderly or those who today have a disease, risking their lives because a virus affects their lives first. We must avoid this. In our opinion, the spread of the vaccine must be total and free of charge, and its administration must be compulsory, precisely in order to ensure a massive spread in a short time. Thank you again for your commitment and I repeat that we are satisfied. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u8	Senator Rauti has the right to explain question 3-02130 on defence policies in the field of cybersecurity, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u9	Mr President, Minister, in view of the current national and international scenario, as well as the geopolitical and geostrategic importance acquired by the cybernetic dimension, as a channel for the propagation and amplification of other types of threat, as also highlighted in the Multi-annual Defence Programme Document for the three-year period 2020-2022, it is essential that the relevant choices are characterised by criteria of clarity and knowledge. The global pandemic has increased the crisis scenarios and has increased the vulnerability and permeability fronts of national security systems, while at the same time there is growing concern about the escalation of the international terrorist threat, even unfortunately in the light of the latest attacks. Therefore, any issue relating to the enhancement of all intelligence activities is an organisational and strategic choice of pre-eminent national interest. Unfortunately, the agreement on the 2021-2027 budget in the Next Generation EU, which is also crucial in the field of defence and security, remains stalemate among Member States, starting with the so-called European Defence Fund. The Council of the European Union of 20 November last, which took place on videoconference - that, to be understood, interrupted by an act of computer piracy by a French journalist - approved 47 projects, including those in the field of cyber defence, and started, with the sharing of the first intelligence documents, the process of elaboration of the strategic compass, that is, a document for a shared vision of the potential threats that lie on Europe and the tools to address it. That Council of the European Union discussed a threat analysis paper drawn up by the system of coordination between national intelligence - still in its embryonic phase, of course - which pays attention to the hybrid and cybernetic threat. 9:45 a.m. (Follows RAUTI). The Multi-annual Programmatic Document identifies an important focus on cyber-domain with its innovation programmes, relating precisely to cyber security and cyber defence. It is therefore a question of knowing, Minister, what initiatives are being taken in the field of cyber defence and security for the protection of national interests, as well as the involvement - as I stress - of the Italian defence industry in this front of the first trench. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u10	Mr President, the cyber-security capacity, which the Ministry of Defence has endowed itself with, is part of the national architecture for cyber-protection and national cyber-security, established by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 17 February 2017. This decree gives the Director-General of the Security Information Department (DIS) the authority to take appropriate steps to define the necessary lines of action to raise and improve the security levels of systems and networks, with particular regard to prevention, contrast and response actions in the event of cyber-crisis. In this context, the Defense takes an active part in interministerial initiatives implementing the National Plan for the security of cybernetic space, providing in particular its contribution to the work of defining the implementing decrees of Decree-Law No 105 of 21 September 2019, with urgent provisions on the perimeter of national cybernetic security, converted with amendments by Law No 133 of 18 November 2019. Having said that, the Dicastery is equipped with cybersecurity structures, framed within the framework of the newly established Command for Network Operations (COR), responsible for the conduct of the operation in the cybernetic domain and the technical-operational management in safety of all strategic structures for telecommunications, including satellite ones, for which significant investments in terms of human and financial resources have been made and maintained in operation. These measures are aimed at exercising the functions limited to the perimeter of operation of the Defense, established by the current regulatory framework, in particular the COM and the National Plan for cyber protection and national cybersecurity. In time of peace, these functions consist in the protection of the networks and information systems of the Defense, in the surveillance of the possible attacks brought to the ICT infrastructure, in the maintenance of the operational readiness necessary to an effective contrast of the cyber threat and, not least, in the possible activity of support, demanded within the core for cybersecurity of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, in case of computer accident occurred to any national infrastructure. Moreover, in the international context - as the honourable Member pointed out - the defence is involved on cyber issues both in the context of the Atlantic Alliance and in the context of the European Union, participating, with substantial contributions, in all the tables aimed at increasing cyber-security. These areas represent important test benches and comparison for raising the national level and the Alliance in the cyber domain. Within the framework that I have now outlined and within the limits of the mandate received, which does not provide security services in favour of Italian private companies (and not only private), the Dicastery has outlined the programming of investments in the digital dimension and, in particular, those related to cybersecurity, assigning priorities to the main projects of modernization and transformation of the military instrument, respecting the principles of sustainability, the ability to capitalize the resources invested and to share in the interforces of the acquisition processes, and continuing the synergy, for some time, in the field of research with universities and industry, as you mentioned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Rauti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, I am not dissatisfied with your reply, but as the Brothers of Italy we are and are dissatisfied with the content of the Multi-annual Defence Programme Document and especially with the funding, which unfortunately seems inadequate to us, as the investments are inadequate and - as everyone knows - that mismatch in the national defence budget with the expected 2% of GDP for the countries of the Alliance. However, I insist precisely on the aspect of cybernetic domination, which is the true frontier of geopolitical disputes and awaited that competence on this matter is also a guarantee of national sovereignty. We, as the Defence Commission, visited the Command for Network Operations (COR) - a citadel in the city of Rome, and appreciated its activities. However, it is clear that there is a need to do more to strengthen the defence capabilities of national cyberspace in the face of what, even in its report, is called an ever faster evolution of cyber threat, with an increasing emphasis on asymmetric and hybrid struggle scenarios. It is clear that cybernetic domination is the strategic axis for the security of every national system and, therefore, also for ours. In the Programmatic Document the word "cyber" appears 13 times; the word "cybersecurity" appears 9 times; the words "cyber defence" 8 times; the word "cybersecurity" 33 times and more, while the word "intelligence" appears only 2 times. However, it is not a matter of quantity. I know it is not your responsibility, but we cannot but say that we are concerned that the regulation on the establishment of the Italian Institute of Cybersecurity has been removed from the draft financial law. We'll ask the president. For Brothers of Italy never and never any frictions or misunderstandings within the majority may or must prevail over the national interest, nor divisions within the majority may prevail, in this case, over such urgent and prominent issues as those of cyber defence and, more generally, of national security.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u12	Senator Gasparri has the right to explain the question 3-02134 on support for military health and defence personnel for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, we have all remembered the dramatic images of the Armed Forces which, in Bergamo, have overcome, with trucks, the need for more mercy, helping the dead at a time when the first wave of the virus seemed to bring the state to its knees. Since then, on several occasions the Armed Forces have gathered more praise than support. Therefore, we believe that greater economic and real support should be given to the staff of the Armed Forces, thinking more about Operation Roads Secure than Gino Strada, also for emergency interventions. We have seen that, when necessary, the Armed Forces have made camp hospitals in no time. The Armed Forces are intervening in the front line and, therefore, the praise of Forza Italia is full and convinced. However, military health has undergone many cuts over the years. I remember when, in the past years, we were talking about military health in Parliament as a legacy of the First World War or, fortunately, distant epochs. Unfortunately, in other contexts and for other needs, military health care is important. Cutting resources and closing hospitals was a mistake. We at Forza Italia are supporting the Multi-annual Defence Programmatic Document because it is not a judgment on the Government, but a support to the Armed Forces, which are a founding structure of the State. And we do so even if we are under the average that NATO indicates us for military expenses; we do so because we are close to the Armed Forces, the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Carabinieri and the entire security and defence sector: I am thinking of the State Police, the Finance Guard, the Prison Police, the Fire Department and other civil protection realities as well. We call for more resources to be allocated to military health, which cannot be invoked as a matter of urgency. Every day a mayor or regional president asks for the field hospital and the intervention of the armed forces, who act; but, if they had been supported better and more over time, they could work more properly, and without huge sacrifices. In this context, Minister, I would remind you of the staff of the Armed Forces, for which we need less pats on the shoulders and more resources. There are contracts to be renewed, allowances to be checked and overtime to be compensated. The government did not even make the meeting that the law prescribes on the eve of the budget maneuver. The last one goes back to the Berlusconi Governments, and then there have been no more. Mr President, we ask you - the Senate Defence Commission has asked for this by unanimous vote - for the Government to meet the whole sector. It is the responsibility of the COCER, but the Government, in its collegiality, must extend this meeting to the unions of the other police forces and public aid. With this question we therefore call for support for military health, but through facts, for what we call the people in uniform.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u14	The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u15	Mr President, let me remind you that since the beginning of the crisis, the Defense has ensured the availability of military structures for health surveillance and has made available hundreds of military doctors and nurses; it has also provided robust logistical support, helped to ensure the control of the territory, the setting up of field hospitals, the carrying out of land and air transport, sending and containment. The strengthening of the hospital centers of Taranto and Milan and the capacitive adaptation of the Celius military hospital in Rome have been achieved very quickly, creating a Covid hospital that constitutes an important reference center for the health emergency in Central Italy, within the framework of a national network of structures dedicated to the fight against the disease. Significant is also the support given to companies in the health sector, which has allowed some of them to multiply production, contributing to the achievement of national autonomy for the realization of essential medical garrisons. More recently, in relation to the current outbreak of contagion, the availability of military health facilities has been provided to increase the country's daily capacity to make swabs through the launch of Operation Igea. The military health personnel are about 3,810 units, of which 1,185 medical officers, 56 pharmacists, 95 veterinarians, 154 psychologists, 32 dental practitioners, 8 biologists, 1,833 petty officers of the health professions (infirmaries, laboratory technicians, radiology technicians, orthopedic technicians, audiometrists, dental hygienists) and further 147 doctors and 300 nurses enrolled for Covid needs with firm for one year. To this should be added 1,493 non-specialized healthcare professionals. Although in the last fifteen years there has been a significant contraction in the resources of the defence budget, which has evidently involved also the health component, over the last four years have been destined to the enhancement of military health over 85 million euros, to which are added 150 million euros for the financial years 2020-2021 brought by the recent emergency measures care Italy and I throw again: a choice has allowed the realization of the enhanced and diversified medical and logistic capacities health promptly made available and in support of the National Health Service and the entire country system. With this in mind, as Minister of Defence I intend to confirm and renew the total availability of the Armed Forces in the current period of crisis, which can be further articulated and strengthened, if deemed necessary, with further investments aimed at the progressive increase of specialized health personnel already in place with the recent cancellations proposed by the Government. Finally, with regard to the last question concerning the involvement of the bodies representing the unions of the Armed Forces, I recall that on 18 November, at the hearing at the Joint Defence Committees of the Chamber and Senate and at the request of Senator Gasparri, I had the opportunity to represent how the difficulties encountered in the construction of the complex budget law in this emergency phase did not favour this preventive confrontation, while expressing the commitment to bring the issue to the attention of the President of the Council of Ministers, who has already assured me full willingness to proceed in this direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gasparri has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Forza Italia Group is not satisfied, but enthusiastic about the Armed Forces and the security and defence sector, and less enthusiastic about the Government, but this is another issue that the Senate will discuss today. However, I appreciate your words, the commitment to listening to the security and defence sector that you repeated to us a few days ago in the Commission, here in the Senate, where - I repeat - the unanimity of colleagues calls for compliance with the laws of listening to the sector. I understand the commitments of the President of the Council, but this commitment is a priority: listening to the people in uniform is not secondary and for the President of the Council, who is divided on many fronts during the day, this is an important front. Thank you for the news. There is no doubt that - as he rightly said - over the past fifteen years there has been a contraction in the defence budgets, which have often been plundered for other emergencies. However, the international obligations of Italy and NATO will have to be met and we will see how they will be implemented in the new international phase which will shortly open up. Above all, however, we remember staff issues. Forza Italia, during the examination of the budget law, will present to the House, where the first reading will take place, an amendment to allocate at least 1.2 billion to this sector. Another proposal has also been put forward: there has been controversy, ladies and gentlemen, over the 800 million for Members of Parliament. It is not money that Members give themselves, but only money left by the Stability Act to cover the many amendments that Parliament proposes. That needs to be clarified. Our Group will ask, however, that those 800 million should be addressed to the security and defence sector: there will be parliamentary amendments in this area, and I have just mentioned that of Forza Italia; we use the fund for Parliament's choices to finance the renewal of contracts and all the needs of the security and defence sector. This is the concrete indication that we are making, that I believe it can also strengthen its action in the Government, Minister, together with that of the Interior and the other competent ones. It is an attitude to defend the Italians and the gratitude and gratitude to the people in uniform, in particular to military health, which also acts in narrowness of means. Thanks to the people in uniform. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u17	We greet Minister Guerini, wishing him good work. Senator Laniece has the right to explain the question 3-02127 on the recruitment of the educational staff of the guests, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u18	Minister, I would like to raise a question which may seem marginal at the moment, but I believe that the subject of educational institutions, boarding schools and their educational staff is nevertheless an important part of getting our school system back on track at such a difficult time. As it turns out, today the national competition for educational staff has not yet been launched and the last - which I have here the ban - was made in 2000, and then there was nothing left. Given that vacancies for educational staff are constantly growing and destined to increase, following the achievement of retirement requirements, the consequences of the precarious work at both school and personal level are totally exhausting. I would like to give an example: in Valle D'Aosta, as in other regions, following a report by trade union representatives, the rankings of the first and second groups have been exhausted with regard to the availability of educational staff. At the school institution of the regional council Federico Chabod Aosta, the number of places currently vacant and put to supplement as educator is very important. Finally, in view of the Government's desire to stabilize - in the broadest sense, of course - with the help of the currently precarious staff of all orders and grades within the Italian educational institutions, I simply ask to know whether the Minister in address is aware of the above facts and whether he intends to recruit the above staff, through the publication of a national competition notice for the educational staff, possibly specifying within what deadlines.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u19	The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u20	Mr President, as Senator Laniece is well aware, the guests and educators contribute to the pursuit of the general objectives of the Italian education system, both through the training offered by the schools to which they are admitted and through the fundamental services provided by residential and semi-residential structures. The consistency of the organic endowments of the educational staff of the national boarding schools and of the female educators as well as of the associations annexed to the technical and professional institutes is determined on the basis of the criteria and parameters indicated in Article 20 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 81 of 2009. For the current school year, the organic budget is 2.279 units. I can assure you that, even in this difficult situation, we have worked to arrange for the allocation of quotas for the permanent recruitment of educational staff in appropriate times, precisely to ensure stability for the children, who use the service of the guests and the educators. For the school year 2020-2021, the permanent recruitment of 91 educational staff was authorised. Coming to the question, it is clear that the social context in which these institutions were born has changed greatly. The number of convitors and semi-convitors, in fact, has recorded over the years a contraction, which has consequently led to a redundancy of the educational staff of role. In any event, such national redundancies did not make it impossible to intervene with the necessary recruitment. They have been used, where necessary, the size rankings still in force. I can assure the honourable Member that, like all other categories of school staff, the planning of recruitment requirements will be accompanied by the necessary competitive procedures, as laid down in Article 97 of the Constitution. I only specify, with reference to the request concerning the Autonomous Region Valle d'Aosta, that the competitions for the recruitment of such staff are held by the Region itself in conjunction, as a rule, with the corresponding competitions launched in the remaining national territory. Nevertheless, I assure you of every contribution I make and of the structure I represent which, in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation, can provide a useful and qualified contribution to the valorization and revitalization of these institutions which undoubtedly constitute a heritage of our community.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u21	I give the floor to Senator Laniece to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his attention and for his reply. As the Minister has already said, these are staff and structures which are important complements to our school system. The proper functioning of these educational institutions, of these boarding schools, which are extremely functional in territories such as the Valle d'Aosta, in which there are Alpine valleys, and therefore must be available to families, which must be able to support them for the education of their children. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his reply and I will always monitor this aspect, of course with all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u23	Senator Pittoni has the right to explain the question 3-02131 on the funds allocated to equal schools, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister, there is a need for a change of pace so that in the current economic, employment and social crisis the educational issue and the effective plurality of school provision become a priority. To this end, it is considered necessary to consider four possibilities: the signing of community education pacts, involving the Ministry of Education, Regions and Municipalities, generating an alliance between the 40,000 state schools and the 12,000 paritarian ones, in order to find local and means of transport that allow everyone to attend, under the same conditions, a state or an equal one, with particular attention to families living in situations of difficulty for the pandemic or sharing the experience of disability; to provide an increase of resources for the pluralism of schools in relation to the quality and continuity of the service offered by the peers, referred to in Law No 62 of 10 March 2000 and, from fiscal year 2021, the deductibility of the fee paid up to 5,500 euros per pupil; to eliminate any discrimination between state public school and public paritarian school, in order to overcome the equal accessibility in terms of the provision of funds, endowments and resources, especially if linked to the criticalities and burdens determined by the pandemic; the increase of the fund, referred to in Article 1, paragraph 616 of Law 232 of 2016 to the grade of schools, destined for the provision of funds, endowments and resources that do not include it with the purpose of the children with the support of the children with the support of the children, and the purpose determined by the pandia. Given that: equal schools offer absolute availability to report contributions, reviewing the lines of funding of the school system through the introduction of the standard costs of sustainability, to be declined into conventions, vouchers, good school, detachability of the fees, devolution of 10 per thousand (a measure already proposed by the League with specific bill presented in Senate); also considering that in phase 2 of the Covid-19 the state school, whose annual cost to the community per pupil is equal to 8,500 euros, has failed to ensure the repartition of the teaching for all, while the peer schools survived the lack of resources generated by the pandemic, with straights ranging from 3,800 euros for the school of childhood to 5,000 euros for the high school, have assured the service, it is asked whether the Minister intends to start a synergistic collaboration, and possibly in terms, between state schools and equal schools in order to raise the quality level of the school system as a whole, making it fairer and generating, in the face of a better service, a probable significant saving of public resources. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u25	The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u26	Senator Pittoni, the synergistic collaboration between public schools and peer schools you want is a reality, and it could not be otherwise because, as you know, peer schools form together with state schools the national education system, pursuant to Law No 62 of 2000. Synergy is not exhausted in this collaboration but already involves, through the community pacts that you recall, local authorities and administrations, as well as the associative realities. In this sense, the investment of previous months has been crucial to support the realization, within the resources of the Fund for the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, of the community pacts; already made agreements, which have stimulated and generated initiatives and good cooperation practices that can be encouraged even more and promoted. With reference to the financing for the segment of peer schools insured over time, the evidence that the Ministry of Education has already guaranteed the issuing of all acts of its own competence in compliance with the legislation in force. In view of the unity of the national education and training system in the draft budget law, which is now before Parliament, provision has also been made for the allocation of EUR 60 million under the scheme, starting next year, of the fund to support the integrated system from zero to six years. With regard to the provision of Irpef deduction of fees and expenses relating to the attendance of kindergartens and schools of all order and grade, I recall that already exists to the extent of 19 percent. Further attention has been given in the emergency. Precisely because we are aware of the role of criticalities and burdens linked to the pandemic with respect to all educational institutions, as you pointed out, already with decree-law n. 18 of last March and with the so-called decree-law I throw again we have assigned specific resources to equal schools, also to equip ourselves with materials for the extraordinary cleaning of the premises as well as of protective and hygiene devices, both for the staff and for the students, as well as to ensure the correct performance of the state exams. Senator, what I have illustrated so far shows that we are working hard in the exclusive interest of all students and students, in synergy with all the institutional actors involved within a unified framework - that of the education and training system - outlined in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u27	Senator Saponara has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot be satisfied with the answer. Minister, you have repeated the litany that we have been hearing for months, but above all, you continue to think that the public, the State, can do everything by itself, and that what is born and exists thanks to private initiative is only a burden to support, while often the opposite is true. In the question that we have presented we have suggested ourselves the words that we would have liked to hear from you, Minister, but you, ideologically focused on centralism, rather than on the form of autonomy that so much has done and does well to the regions of our country that go in that direction, cannot see that only in the collaboration between public and private you can find the right solutions to the many problems that the public alone is not able to solve, in the school as well as in many other areas, for example, in the transports, as it appeared evident in this last period. I know that transport is not your area of competence, but if you had listened immediately to the proposals of the League, putting in place a collaboration between public and private transport, perhaps so many high school students would not be obliged to take lessons from home, Minister: the same thing with regard to school. I invite you, Minister, to reflect on the need for synergy between state school and peer school. Only in this way will we be able to guarantee our young people an excellent quality of education, guaranteeing freedom of educational choice and also saving public resources. If you are still not convinced of this, Minister, allow me to give you just one example, without making it go too far, reminding you that the first STEM high school in Italy was established in Palermo, precisely in an equal school, which I think you will well know. Minister, you know what we're talking about when we talk about STEM or STEAM, because that's what the National Digital School Plan is based on, with the aim of innovating the Italian educational system. I hope that you will reflect on what I have said to you, Minister, and come back to this House in some time with different arguments; you will also have the opportunity shortly with the next budget law. If you give... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u29	Thank you, Senator. Unfortunately, it has already exceeded by thirty seconds the time allowed for the reply, but the speech was very clear. [[Comments. Applause.]] Senator, you know we're on live television, and I still gave you 30 seconds longer than the time you were given.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u30	Mr President, Minister, the health emergency from Covid-19 has led, since March 2020, to the suspension of educational activities in schools of all order and grade for much of the time that has passed until now, making it necessary to regulate with emergency tools first the operations relating to the closure of the school year 2019-2020 and, subsequently, those relating to the start of the school year 2020-2021. In any case, in the context of the urgent decree concerning the school sector, increasing resources have been allocated progressively to allow the continuation of activities in digital mode (distance teaching, integrated digital teaching), so as to ensure as much as possible the continuity of teaching. Among the measures that have been recently arranged is unfortunately also the possibility to suspend the teaching activities in the presence of schools of every order and grade. This has been compulsory throughout the national territory for secondary schools of second grade and for the second and third year of secondary school of first grade and on the basis of risk scenarios articulated on a regional basis for children's schools, primary school and the first year of secondary school of first grade. However, it should be noted that a scenario characterized for the most part by the suspension of educational activities in presence, while strictly respecting the indispensable safety and prevention measures aimed at containing contagions, can determine both repercussions on the psychological state of the students and the increase of a deleterious phenomenon such as school dispersal, which risks leaving indelible traces in those contexts more degraded and characterized by educational poverty and socio-economic backwardness. For this reason, the reopening of schools in safety is a top priority in our country. In particular, it should be stressed that the educational sector is particularly affected by shortcomings in other sectors, including local transport. In the current panorama, characterized by extreme uncertainty even in the short term, it is essential that the State invests adequate resources for both current expenditure and investment, in order to ensure as much as possible the continuation of teaching activity in presence. It is therefore called upon to know what measures the Minister has taken, with particular reference to the draft budget law on schools, both in order to deal more adequately with the current health emergency and in a broader perspective, first and foremost with regard to school support and inclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u31	The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u32	Mr President, Senator Grenato, never as at this time has the school returned to the centre of public debate and never as now is the awareness that education is one of the main drivers of development in our country. I can assure you, Senator Granato, that we are investing resources and working not only for today but also for the future, for an open, cohesive, supportive, inclusive and innovative school. The significant measures provided for in the draft budget law for 2021, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies, are an eloquent testimony to this. There is a multi-annual plan for the permanent recruitment of 25,000 teachers in the so-called legal staff, to ensure continuity of teaching for pupils and pupils with disabilities. A figure of €10 million is allocated for the training of all teachers, not only in support, on issues related to the inclusion of students and students with disabilities. EUR 10 million is also allocated for the purchase of teaching aids for school institutions that welcome them. 4,485 former LSU school workers have been assured, transforming their contract of employment in full time, thus ensuring an adequate level of cleaning services in school environments even after the end of the health emergency. The stability of 1,000 technical assistants for digital support in first cycle schools has also been guaranteed. The provision of training in children's school has been strengthened in order to set up new sections with an additional 1,000 teachers and the fund for the integrated system from zero to six years has been increased to an additional EUR 60 million scheme. The Fund for the enrichment and expansion of training provision and for equalisation (more than €100 million in 2021) has been invested, also in order to reduce inequalities and to promote the optimum use of the right to education, especially for those without resources. In order to enhance digital didactic innovation in schools, an additional €40 million has also been invested in the Digital Innovation and Laboratory Teaching Fund. The Single Fund for School Building has then been further increased for the coming years to a total of EUR 1.5 billion. In total, we are investing more than EUR 3.7 billion. Adding this amount to the resources allocated in recent months, it can be said that this Government has already invested more than 7 billion euros on the school. Senator, the acceleration of investment, especially on training and innovation, shows that in recent months we have faced the emergency of health care by trying to make use of opportunities for relaunching the national education and training system. I am sure that, together with Parliament, during the examination of the draft budget law, we will be able to give further signals of attention to the entire school community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u33	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Garnet for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u34	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply, which I would like to thank personally, also on behalf of the other colleagues of the majority groups, for the commitment he is making to the reopening of schools in attendance. This issue must be central to our country's political debate and also to the institutional debate. All institutional actors, both state and territorial, must therefore see themselves invested in this important and fundamental commitment, because reopening economic activities without first reopening the schools unfortunately will necessarily mean that the contagions will continue to circulate within the country and therefore the schools could remain closed sine die. We cannot allow an emergency situation to turn into a social butcher's shop, because this will be the scenario for the next few years if we do not invest now in the reopening of schools. I therefore hope that, apart from its commitment, there will also be the commitment of the other institutions to contribute to this fundamental and important objective: that schools will be the first to open and the last to close. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u35	We greet Minister Azzolina and wish her good work. Senator Stefano has the right to explain Question 3-02133 on the progress of negotiations on the European Union's multiannual budget for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, there is widespread concern and as if the climate of mistrust and anguish generated by the current pandemic and its effects on the maintenance of the social and economic systems of Italy and Europe were not enough, a new fact seriously overshadowed the horizon and in fact prevented us from acting in the appropriate times and ways to support our communities in this very delicate phase of world history. As we know, at the beginning of November an important negotiation agreement was reached between Parliament and the Council of the European Union on the long-term budget and the recovery mechanism, the Next generation EU, on the basis of the political guidelines given at the European Council last July; an agreement which introduced a new conditionality regime with the aim of protecting the EU budget even more from violations of the principles of the rule of law. These days, however, we are witnessing a serious and dangerous crisis that seriously exposes the European Union to the risk of provisional budgetary exercise and, consequently, to a dangerous delay in the delivery of resources intended to alleviate Europe from the deep crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. This is because of the opposition from Hungary and Poland on the inclusion of the cross-compliance mechanism which makes the allocation of resources from the European budget conditional on compliance with the rule of law. The veto of the two countries clearly cannot be exercised on the mechanism for applying the rule of law criterion to European funds, but on the decision and own resources, which would risk blocking the unanimous approval of the new multiannual financial framework. It may be useful then to recall not only that the European Union is not and cannot be interpreted as merely an economic market, but also and above all as the framework of the rule of law and fundamental rights that is increasingly deteriorating in Hungary and Poland. Just a day ago, the President of the European Commission invited Poland and Hungary to address the Court of Justice of the European Union to address the most legitimate concerns about this conditionality, since that is the place where disagreements are held on legal texts and not at the expense of millions of Europeans who urgently await our aid. This is alarming. In conclusion, Minister, that is why I ask you what initiatives the Government considers to take in the European institutional fora in order to ensure the approval and immediate operation of the new budgetary cycle, to prevent the provisional exercise and the serious consequences that it would have in providing the recovery fund, as well as the introduction of the new conditionality regime. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u37	The Minister for European Affairs, Mr Amendola, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Stefano and the senators for the question which has been put to me in detail on a matter which, as has been pointed out, is of common concern and I agree with this alarm. The agreement of the European Council of 21 July last, which built a package of EUR 1824,3 billion, between the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and Next generation is the largest package of funds financed from the EU budget in history and is a package that is necessary for recovery and resilience and our economies. In its conclusions of 21 July, points 22 and 23 set out the following: The financial interests of the Union shall be protected in accordance with the general principles... in particular the values referred to in Article 2 TEU (Treatise on European Union) and it shall still be written that: A cross-compliance regime to protect the budget and Next generation EU will be introduced on the basis of this premise. I would stress that this is an agreement signed by all 27 countries. It is no coincidence that, in the light of that agreement, the German Presidency began negotiations with the European Parliament and on the regulation on budgetary conditionality which applies precisely to cases of violation of the rule of law. In the negotiations with Parliament, the provisions provide for: a preventive protection function against infringement risks; a list with examples of cases (such as the threat to the independence of the judiciary); a clause for the protection of final beneficiaries; the possibility of suspending payments or the prohibition of requesting new legal commitments and also an emergency brake (i.e. the possibility that the Member State, in violation of the rule of law, would refer the matter to the European Council). A wise mediation that we have supported and this compromise, reached in the trialogue, obviously must now be adopted again by the European Council and Parliament by qualified majority and, in theory, it would not serve the vote of Hungary and Poland, as you pointed out. In practice, however, the veto of Budapest and Warsaw is exercised on the general regulation of the MFF and on the Next Generation EU, a veto that blocks procedures. Poland and Hungary justify their veto by referring to ideological disputes or violation of rights. I want to be clear: this is a legally correct issue, which is expressed on the basis of the Treaties and without any ideological character and it is good for President Von der Leyen to refer to the European Court of Justice, because with this veto the package has been blocked and the alarm is that, until this veto is over, all procedures will be stalled. We will of course support the role of the German Presidency, but let me say that, in addition to the alarm, it is a serious responsibility... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u39	Senator Stefano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister, who seems to me, on behalf of the Government, to have understood the risk we face. I would ask the Minister, on behalf of Parliament and my Group, to hold on to this line, because the prospect and above all this climate of uncertainty does not help us to face the crisis that we are facing and that we have not resolved. So thank you, Minister, for your commitment and please keep Parliament constantly informed, because the climate of concern does not facilitate the decisions before us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u41	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 10:33 a.m. and resumed at 13:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u42	The next item is the debate on document LVII-a, No 3. The rapporteur, Senator Beginini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u43	Mr President, the Government has forwarded to Parliament the report setting out the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective, which has already been authorised with the previous report to Parliament attached to NADEF. The report under consideration is adopted pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 (the so-called reinforced law implementing the principle of balance-of-balance-sheet), which provides that temporary deviations of the structural balance from the medium-term objective are permitted in the event of exceptional events, heard by the European Commission and after authorisation approved by the Chambers by an absolute majority of their members, while indicating the return plan towards the medium-term objective. It should be recalled that this report was preceded by four authorisations to deviate from the return plan, approved by an absolute majority by the Chambers in the current year, in order to cope with the economic and health crisis from Covid-19. The worsening of the health situation resulting from the second wave of infection by Covid-19, which developed this autumn, has led the Government to adopt restrictive measures differentiated at territorial level. The regions have been divided according to three categories of severity of health conditions, which are associated with differentiated rules of social distance and the closure of economic activities. The health framework of the regions is constantly changing, making it necessary to adapt the support measures being approved and therefore to find additional financial resources. Having clarified the assumptions and aims of the report, the Government illustrates the update of the trend estimates of public finance for the current year, with specific reference to the level of net debt in relation to GDP. In detail, the estimate of net debt tends to improve to 10.4% of GDP, mainly on the basis of a downward revision of expenditure forecasts for intermediate consumption, income, investment and interest. With this report, therefore, after hearing the European Commission, the Government only requires for the year 2020 the authorisation of the use of higher debt, amounting to 5 billion euros in terms of net balance to be financed and 8 billion in terms of both needs and net debt. As a result of the new request for deviation and taking into account the previous authorisations granted and the policy objectives set out in NADEF 2020 and the 2021 budget plan, the overall maximum level of the net balance to be financed will thus increase by 2020 to EUR 341 billion in terms of competence and up to 389 billion in cash. With regard to the next three years of programming, despite the high degree of uncertainty surrounding the estimate, the Government confirms the return path towards the medium-term objective, already indicated in the NADEF last October, according to which there would be a net debt of 7% of GDP in 2021, 4.7% in 2022 and 3% in 2023.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u44	I recall that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 3, of Law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the use of debt is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Motions for resolutions on the report will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u45	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues, for the fifth time since the beginning of the pandemic, we are voting on a budgetary deviation. I insist: four times already in this House it has been noted that the Government is doing everything to bring liquidity into the economic and entrepreneurial fabric of the country. We're in a swamp, that's clear, but as this fifth deviation shows, we're doing everything we can to get out of it. The situation is constantly under observation and the necessary measures are being taken without delay. On the other hand, it is undeniable that this global health emergency is something that has never been seen in the past. For this reason, if necessary, further deviations will be made to support citizens, families and businesses. You do not navigate on sight, you act surgically when and where necessary. Today, precisely in this direction, we are called to give the green light to another 8 billion euros in terms of net debt: a deviation that perhaps improperly by someone has been defined without deficit, because we know that this amount will be reabsorbed by extra-tax revenue, which we immediately make usable to face the economic and pandemic emergency. Let us be clear, for the irreducible detractors who do nothing but complain, that all the billions have been and will be transferred to the real economy: to small businesses, to school, to health care, to families and to VAT matches in difficulty. We could uncover a Pandora's box to discuss how the funds for the health emergency have been and are administered by the regions. We do not want to mortify or crucify anyone, but we must have the intellectual honesty to recognize that what we are living unfortunately has shown in an unmistakable way that a central management of health, faced with such great problems, is more functional than regional decisions that are not unanimous. Title V of the Constitution has been suddenly changed in the past, but it is a sign of intelligence to recognize that it must be reviewed again. In this regard, I would like to draw up the bill that my colleague Paola Taverna presented and which I have signed with many others. We cannot leave it to the local authorities to manage health at will: this must be reiterated, because I hope it is a central theme of our work even in the months and years to come of this legislature. As another crucial point has to be reiterated: the ESM is not the appropriate response. [[Applause]] It is not even at this stage to have resources for our health care. The ESM is an instrument considered obsolete by all European countries, even those who suffer most from health care than we do, on which Minister Gualtieri has expressed many doubts on several occasions. It is a mechanism that is labelled as being surpassed by the President of the European Parliament, David Sassoli, and former Prime Minister Enrico Letta, both of whom are members of the PD and of a strong European tradition, and by many of those same political forces who in a reckless way wanted to rekindle the debate. Let's stop it; by drawing on those funds, far from zero impact, we will give a devastating signal to the outside. On the other hand, if we go back to today, there are certainly sectors that have been affected differently from this crisis and that need a flexible response from the institutions. In my speech, I would like to mention two sectors or categories of workers among the most affected by the crisis and I know them closely for my professional experience. Firstly, I would like to mention the whole trade fair sector and the related industrial sectors. 2020 has been a year to forget for the great national and international events, showcases that allow the knowledge of Made in Italy in the world and that are the engine of the internationalization of our companies. But fairs means the whole world also of small professionals and companies that deal with the settings and support of these great events: from safety to catering, passing through the workers to the laying of the materials, the joinery, interior furnishings, the world of photography, contracts for cleaning, just to mention some areas related to the fairs. Let's not forget of course also all the exhibition districts that host the events. For this reason, if on the one hand it is necessary to provide a safe reopening for trade fairs, on the other hand we have the duty to support the entire world of trade fairs, freeing us from the rigidity of the setting of the Ateco codes. I have to admit that, in general, we have to work more on the whole world of VAT matches. Last December there was a cut in the threshold of subordinated contracts for those who simultaneously held VAT and flat-rate schemes: a short-sighted choice that penalized so many workers who, in this year of crisis and difficulty, could have worked in the free profession to round up their salary. You don't have to look at professionals and VAT matches as enemies to fight. In a country that aims at modernity, even in the area of work, agility and little bureaucracy are necessary, elements that, if not pursued, cage the freelancer and at the same time only encourage irregularities and abuses. The Government has never denied the possibility of innovative reforms to revive entire productive sectors. The 110% superbonus, as well as the mobility bonus, are shining examples of how politics must affect to raise the country, without preconceptions and mistrust towards citizens. The 110% superbonus is an extraordinary measure that will not last decades, but that will certainly be extended by covering a multi-annual horizon: a reasonable time to start the yards in quantity, efficienting and securing our homes (a goal on which I am sure the whole House agrees). Distrust is only a form of loneliness and isolation; it is as far away as we can be from the role we play in this House. For this reason, I believe that the only way we can make someone reliable is to give them our trust. The approach that we will have to take towards all the people of entrepreneurs and VAT matches must be constructive and proactive. Too often I have noticed how dialogue has been spoiled by ideological approaches pre-constituted on one side and on the other. In conclusion, I welcome the attitude of the Ministries to listen to me during this period of difficulty for the country. The demands have often found an answer and especially the so-called ristori decrees, which are being discussed in the Budget Committee these days, contain economic support for many categories blocked by the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. I hope that precisely with the so-called ristori decrees and the budget law we can also work with the opposition forces, because we are all part of this great conflict against an invisible enemy that strikes indiscriminately. It is a war without visible rubble, but with very deep wounds that we can only heal with the time and support of all. There are therefore no reasons to counter this deviation which, like the previous ones, has been designed to support our health care, our families, our schools and our businesses. Italians are optimistic by nature and we have a duty to act to give confidence and security. We're doing this and we're gonna keep doing it for everyone's sake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u46	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u47	Mr President, I apologise for the delay, but we were engaged in a press conference with the entire centre-right. I would like to thank the President, the colleagues who are here with us and, above all, the sense of responsibility that the entire centre of the Union has wanted to confirm, once again, just today. It is an act of responsibility to ensure that budgetary deviation that must respond to the problems of the country that we have been looking for for months - I believe with the utmost kindness, education, friendliness and also the friendship that binds us to some of you - to offer you on a silver plate. Waiting to see the majority's motion for a resolution, it seems that some of the points on which the Brothers of Italy and the entire centre of the right paused can become part of your political line and of the directions along which the resources related to this deviation will be invested. I'm gonna go in a nutshell. The expectation is towards the interest to overcome the logic of the Ateco codes in favor of a logic of the supply chain, because there are no children and stepchildren; there are self-employed workers, businesses and VAT consignments that have suffered and suffer decreases in turnover and profitability and that all must be considered together. We have been saying this for months, it seems that you have understood it and we are happy first of all as Italians. We are thinking of preferential tax regimes for companies that maintain business continuity. We have been asking for this too for months and we have put it among the five points of Brothers of Italy: I am referring to VAT and tax concessions for entrepreneurs who hold hard, who even after the various lockdowns will reopen their companies. We must make these companies feel, for the next two years, that it will be crucial for the future of our country, all the solidarity of the right, the centre and the left of the Italian Parliament, the representatives of the citizens. Therefore, Mr President, starting to conclude my speech, I believe it is essential to give the Italian professionals the attention that we - I repeat - have been demanding for months. Today I address the vice minister Misiani also in the institutional setting, as well as in the moments of conversation also pleasant outside of these classrooms, to ask him to really grant this extension in the matter of declarative obligations and this postponement of tax deadlines. We Italians need it above all, but they need those professionals and accountants who are working in trenches with studies, often handicapped for the forty and the diseases of their employees, as well as the owners. We therefore really expect an answer on this and also for professionals to finally be recognized as refreshers, because they are human beings, workers, they are the main mechanism of the transmission of state rules in the economy. We help them as well as others and therefore we prepare social shock absorbers that apply not only to employees, but to all self-employed workers and professionals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, it has not been long since 18 October, when the President of the Council intervened at a press conference on live television and let himself go to three seemingly granite statements: schools will not close, new lockdowns will not be arranged, the condition of the Italian economy is that of a vigorous recovery (I use the words of the President-in-Office himself). Those who had a minimum knowledge of the facts and lived in the real world were amazed. Soon we fell into today's condition: hospitals are close to collapse, we have the record of deaths for Covid-19, growth forecasts have dropped further, debt has grown further, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is in the condition of the mystery enveloped by an enigma and nobody knows anything about it. It is clear that this Government is inadequate to deal with the situation and it is equally clear that we are living in a moment of real national tragedy. Under such conditions the opposition has two possibilities: the first, the most convenient, is to sit on the banks of the river and wait until the current transports the political corpse of the President of the Council, of the Government, of the majority that supports it. It is a slippery and unpleasant position to the extent that we all know that, together with the political body of the President of the Council, the social body of the nation would also pass. There is a second possibility, the one that was chosen by Silvio Berlusconi and Forza Italia: make concrete proposals, identify concrete problems and possible solutions to concrete problems without asking anything in return. In fact, I believe and I hope it is clear to everyone that the question of incision is a veritable infamy that does not exist in reality. [[Applause]] Silvio Berlusconi and Forza Italia have identified in half of the country that is paying the most for the consequences of this crisis the political objective to be indicated to the Government: the non-securities, VAT matches, the self-employed, those that more than others are today struggling with the total blockade of their economic activities. The government has accepted this approach; it has agreed to take on, as our party has pointed out, this serious national and social emergency. The oppositions rightly aligned on a position of national responsibility: we did a good service not to Forza Italia, not to the center-right, not to the Government, but to Italy. It is clear that this is not enough and that the Government will have to make sure that Parliament is given back its constitutional function of all the acts adopted in this Covid crisis. The legislative acts of parliamentary initiative are 10%; the rest are governmental or administrative acts. Throughout the history of the Count II Government, 1.03% of the amendments tabled by Parliament, individual parliamentarians and parliamentary groups have been approved. We cannot go on like this and we cannot accept the fact that decisive choices for the future of the country are taken by the technicians of the Ministry of Economy and the technicians of the European Commission in the ignorance of the country and of Parliament. If we want to think that we can get the country out of the buckets in which it is finished, we must all assume our responsibilities. Parliament must become central again, the narcissism of the President of the Council and other leaders must be put aside; all parties must think not about their own future, but about the future of the next generations on whose shoulders we are burdening potentially unsustainable debts. In times no easier than those we are given to live, when the nation proved to be compact and when the political class proved to be very concrete, then the President of the Republic, the president of the reconstruction Luigi Einaudi, wrote: In the lives of nations the mistake of not being able to grasp the fleeting moment is usually irreparable. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u50	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Government for its presence. Today we arrive at yet another deviation that, if we want, is less relevant than the previous ones. I still remember for those who look at us from outside the 20 billion for the decree cure Italy, 55 billion for the decree raise, 25 billion for the decree August and now have arrived all the various decrees restori with little consistency, except then realize that some consistency there had to be. We are at the restori-c : we have done the restori one, or rather, we are still doing the restori one, then there is the restori-a, which is part of the restori one, the restori-b, which will also be part of the restori one. It's a big mess. The 8 billion that arrive at this moment of extreme economic disaster serve as bread. However, we should not have come to this point: we should not have arrived on November 26 to make a quick and furious deviation because you noticed that on November 30 there are important tax deadlines. Autonomous, merchants and craftsmen on 30 November have the F24 in expiration. There are payments for INPS contributions and tax payments for 2020, but if you think you have no turnover you can pay 80% and we don't sanction you. In short, the autonomous must really have the crystal sphere in order not to incur sanctions. Then what else? I don't know why I got lost, too. The confusion is extreme and it is all the more shameful because we are behind deadlines. [[Applause.]] People don't know what to pay and when. Not to mention that, if the accountant is in quarantine and with him all his office, the taxpayer is required to do it himself. The taxpayer must know what to pay and it is not justified either because of force majeure. This is how the Revenue Agency responded to tax collectors: there is no objectively proven impossibility that justifies non-compliance. I wonder who, at the Revenue Agency, wrote this obnoxious thing. Mr. Deputy Minister, seriously, listen to me. This is a very important point. Please have this ignoble answer, which the Revenue Agency has given to tax collectors, deleted or corrected as a matter of urgency. I wonder where they live. They really don't see the disaster out there? There are desperate people, they have to pay and they don't know how to do it, they have anguish of sanctions and they have no money. These are, at present, the real conditions, this is the reality. Mr President, at least my brief four-minute speech, which I begin to conclude, is a useful appeal to resolve this situation. At least this! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u53	Mr President, we often hear from some observers and opposition forces that the government lacks an overall vision and I think that is quite true. We saw how he dealt with the epidemic, the pandemic, with the famous DPCM, never sufficient and always untimely. From an economic point of view, the government then tried to reduce the damage and the negative economic effects of the pandemic, with the first decrees-laws and then with the restorative ones, which are kind of matryoske, Mr. Deputy Minister: as the borders of the pandemic widen, the matryoskes are also enlarged, sticking one inside the other. The decree ristori one suffers the arrival of the matrioska of the decree ristori two and the same happens with the decree ristori two, against the decree ristori three and so on. It almost seems that the famous vision I was talking about earlier is missing and the social impact is dramatically negative, because the guarantees are already guaranteed, while not those guaranteed have never been: I mean the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, the traders, the precarious, the VAT matches, the seasonal, the consultants, the professionals of the entertainment world. The question, at this point, is whether we have the chance to really have a vision of what has happened to us. This lack of vision probably clashes with our structural inability, with an inadequacy of the political class, basically, and with those famous laces and laces, which have always blocked even the untimely measures I mentioned earlier. Perhaps there is also a lack of a vision of the fundamentals of what will happen next, at the end of this pandemic. Before or after it will end, but at that point we will have missed that vision, which we must also propose to Europe and on the basis of which we will be able to transform and revolutionize our country, as in the famous post-war period. The vision ability tends to belong to that category of policy that simplifies complex problems. We try to use a grammar of immediate solutions, without slipping into the labyrinths of successive legislation and the famous matryoske, to which I mentioned earlier, with operations that are all zero sum. So I'll try to decline this road map, very quickly. The first phase is containment. In my opinion, it would have been much better for all the resources found in debt to have been devoted immediately to all those who had economic suffering because of the pandemic. I'm just making an example of a numerical character: the company Italy invoices to the year 1.800 billion euros, pairs to 150 billion euros per month and therefore, with the two months of blockade and the successive drags, we speak of a vulnus to the Italian economic system pairs to something like 300 billion euros. Let us also make a tara of 30%, compared to EUR 300 billion, and we come to EUR 200 billion, which is more or less the figure of the deviations that have been resolved. Would it have been better? In my opinion, yes. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. The second phase concerns the exit from the health emergency. We hit the first and second wave with difficulty, but now we have an extraordinary vaccination plan, which means to vaccinate with a first injection and with a second after eighteen days, but also with an overall history of Italian citizens, because you cannot inoculate them the vaccine without knowing its clinical state. An extraordinary vaccination plan that must then decline over a period of two months, from mid-January to the end of March, because only in this way will it be possible to reach that famous immunity of flock, or rather of community, which could allow more than 15 percent of Italians who have already contracted the virus. Are we ready for this? Are we capable? There are also the financial resources, the famous ESM: you don't want to take 37 billion, take 20 billion, but with those 20 you set up this extraordinary organization. I shall conclude, Mr President, by focusing on post-emergency Italy. The recovery fund dedicates 209 billion to us; they will probably arrive calmly, perhaps occasionally in Brussels they exaggerate in defining the small notes and the rates of internal democracy of some countries, also because when Orban and Mateusz Morawiecki go to the Councils of State and Government no one asks them for the license of democracy: they take it out only when there is money to give, and it happens that the German Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe often overlooks national legislation. I do not know whether a pro-temporaneous government will ever be able to cope with the immense task ahead of it. I think that there is an entire political class that must take this responsibility to give our children, our young people in 2030 a completely different and revolutionary Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u55	Mr President, the current pandemic and its prevention and containment measures are inevitably triggering an unprecedented economic crisis. In this scenario, which involves large productive sectors and puts many Italian families in pain, the vote in favour of the further budgetary deviation required today by the Government turns out to be a due act, so much so that I note that none of the oppositions will vote against. It is clear that immediate assistance is needed at this time for businesses, traders and self-employed workers to avoid further impoverishment of the national production fabric and to offer concrete help to citizens. This means providing compensation for those who have had to close their business; it means integrating the turnover of those who, while not closing, have experienced significant contractions of their work, postpone tax deadlines, give emergency subsidies to those who do not make it. And all this must be done immediately. The path taken by the government must be further traveled with courage and determination, using all the greater indebtedness that will be necessary. This does not mean, however, that we do not carefully choose the measures to be financed. We must never forget, in fact, that the debts we bear today sooner or later will have to be repaid and will fall on our children. If it is true that our debt securities are currently being purchased by the ECB, which will be able to refinance and sterilize them for some time, however, I have no confidence that this pandemic debt will be cancelled. Those who draw the line of European finance and dictated the Treaties have carved in stone the ultimate aim of the European banking system, which is price stability, which does not allow the devaluation of loans. Those who hold the keys to the system certainly have an interest in financing States in exceptional periods such as these so that the European system does not break down, and yet they will always demand strict return plans and have no opportunity to repay debts to their debtors. While it is also true that next year we will be able to count on the billions of the recovery fund, it is also true that it is ultimately also the debts of the State or the European Union that will be repaid either directly or indirectly through the contribution to the EU budget. In other words, there is no philosopher stone that creates gold from nothing and there is no benefactor in Brussels who gives us anything. Every penny we use today will be called to return it tomorrow as a nation, with the sweat of the front of our people. This introduces a subject that I have not heard of so far. Who will pay the costs of this crisis? To whom do we intend to repay, tomorrow, the large debt that we are forced to bear today? Already from the budget law and the national plan, which will have to decide which financial projects to carry out with the 209 billion of the recovery fund, we will have to make clear political choices, that they will not be able to satisfy everyone. As soon as the state of emergency is over, we will need to name the return plan and put our hand in tax reform by making clear choices that will identify who and how they will have to pay what we spend today. The crisis and the need to find the resources to pay the debts and to select the projects on which to invest make, in my opinion, not possible the path of broad understanding I hear about and vague many. On these issues, the Movimento cannot find points of agreement with Forza Italia: we believe that it is absolute injustice to treat equally unequal situations, therefore we propose the progressiveness of taxation, to make more pay those who have the most; Forza Italia, on the contrary, would like generalized moratorie, in which the usual cunnings can be confused with the needy, and to charge little even to those who have so much, with the inevitable consequence of charging more to those who have less, or to cut public services. Our Movimento was born so that each citizen would count like the others; your party so that the elites would count more than the masses. We want the laws to be the same for all and we aspire to make laws that are useful to the most; Forza Italia does not make any scruples to make laws ad personam, as has happened in the past, aimed at the interest of few to the detriment of many. We want to fight tax evasion rigorously, while Forza Italia has its own leader convicted of tax fraud. We want legality and we want to eradicate organised crime and the associated economy, which stifles healthy businesses, while Forza Italia was founded by those who carry out the mafia demands. [[Comments]] As determined by the judgment passed in court...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u56	Senator Crucioli...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u57	CRUCIOLI (M5S). ...on its founder Marcello Dell'Utri, transmission belt between the thighs and Berlusconi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crucioli! I'm asking you for the courtesy of addressing the Presidency, thank you. [[Comments.]] CRUCIOLI (M5S). Does the truth hurt? It's a judgment passed in court. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, talk to the presidency. I'll listen to you. CRUCIOLI (M5S). For these main reasons, it would be utopian, wrong and leading to serious misunderstandings to write together the financial law, the national recovery plan or tax reform. I want to give you a concrete example. Two French economists, in the book "The Triumph of Unrighteousness," show that today in the world inequalities have increased and that precisely in times of crisis the wealth tends to increase in a few hands; it increases the poverty of many, but also the wealth of few. This book also shows that the rich pay less taxes than the poor and how it is necessary and possible to build a tax system that reduces inequalities and ultimately builds a fairer world. Following these theories, if a 2 percent levy were applied to the approximately 3,000 Italians who today have a wealth of more than 50 million euros and 3 percent to the approximately 40 subjects with wealth above billion euros, an emergency contribution of about 10 billion would be made, which could be used for the benefit of the needy and middle classes, increasingly tested by the crisis. These proposals, as well as that of the lower taxation of labour income compared to the income from capital, could certainly be carried out by the Movimento 5 Stars, but do you think that they can be shared by conservative forces like Forza Italia? For these reasons, I will vote in favour of the budgetary deviation requested by the Government, but at the same time I warn my colleagues of the majority not to embark on paths that would mislead us from the objectives of change and equity that the country needs and demands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u58	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u59	Mr President, I was thinking of making a kind of speech, but I will now change it by improvising, because my colleague's question first of all prompted me to ask: what is the point of policy? What is the reason why we are here to represent the people? To erect walls and capture some likes or to try to bring our contribution, which is based on our history, our culture and our values? [[Applause]] You see, Mr President, you are a person who is also sensitive to the history of our country. Imagine if, after the ruins of World War II, this Parliament had created such a dialectic, because we are talking about this. We are the ones who at the Paris Conference used only the personal courtesy of the other leaders of foreign countries and who rebuilt the country; and we did so also with the contribution of our opponents, because we avoided a civil war. [[Applause]] So, dear Mr President, we are the ones who defeated terrorism, even with the contribution of their political opponents: and all this was possible because there were men and women who had vision and built bridges, and not who denigrated the opponent only and exclusively for a personal gain. That's what we are. [[Applause]] We are the ones who have defended democracy and we allow a senator in Parliament to say completely unfounded things. We are the ones who have defended private property and freedom in this country, so we do not take lessons from those who today have the sole purpose of dividing it during one of its greatest tragedies since the birth of the Republic. I do not believe, and I say this to Parliament as a whole, that, although I am proud of the opposition of this Government, I want to make a contribution, which means betrayal or abuse, because I do not allow myself to classify the behaviour of the fathers of the Republic in this way. It must be, however, men of state, who put their culture, their values and their formation at the service of the country. And so I say, Mr President, that today does not win a political part of the government and not even the opposition; today the country wins, and we must say it with the pride of this Parliament too often denigrated outside this building. Today the country wins, because I believe that we, as opposition, are changing paradigm: the bar man we often refer to, in addition to listing the inadequacy of this Government, asks us what our proposal is and how we help him to arrive at the end of the month. We have done so constructively, so that each of us has left out our own interests in the interests of the country. In conclusion, Mr President, I have nothing to say or teach anyone. All I'm saying is that in politics they taught me a rule: respect for others and ideas other than mine, so I don't fall into the trap of those who today think only to offend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u60	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u61	Mr President, being able to give me the luxury of getting away from this somewhat embarrassing debate, which is why, while you are voting together, you insult yourself, I would like to try to put it back on the ground of merit, because +Europe-Action has convincedly voted for the first budgetary deviations. We have done so in the awareness and conviction that dealing with the emergency, both health and economic, was a responsibility that does not concern the majority alone and the Government alone, so we have accepted the first invitations of the Count Government to vote in a shared way. Along with that willingness to vote, we also offered the Government something else: punctual proposals and collaboration on specific issues. I remember only a few of them, because unfortunately they are still of dramatic topicality. We had proposed to Minister Gualtieri the return of payments of IRES and IRAP payments, to give immediate and proportionate refreshment to the companies, as well as a very fast intervention in the companies' coffers. We had proposed to Minister Hope and Minister Manfredi the financing of all specialization grants in medicine, to overcome the now age-old problem of the training funnel. I would like to remind everyone that while we are celebrating the new broad agreements, there have been kids outside who have been waiting for months - from September now, and we are in December - to know their fate about the examination for access to specialization. I say this out of all controversy, because we are talking about emergency, health care and doctors and we would do well to take this into account. We have asked Minister Hope, with a resolution that has been rejected, a punctual statement of the 9 billion so far destined to health care, without any controversy, because, if you ask to share a decision, we share even if the use of resources is functional and efficient or not. We proposed to the government in May, long before the summer, the so-called traffic lights plan, a gradual reopening thanks to which, if perhaps we had used it this summer, we would not be in the current conditions. On several occasions, at the initiative of Senator Bonino, we have asked this House to express itself, not for a whim or for a Europeanistic delight, on the issue of the ESM available since June, because it is becoming unbearable every day to read the chronicle that tells of insufficient swabs, race to field hospitals, personnel subjected to exasperating shifts and performances in difficulty. If you do not agree, let us say this: you have been submitting this Parliament, in the form of regulatory technicalities, for months, to the impossibility of expressing your views on the matter. Since the seriousness of the situation prevents each of us, including myself, from resorting to polemics and attitude of unwillingness, I would like to ask the Government, Mr President, what we are being asked for cooperation on. On what should we share government action? On the appointment of the Health Commissioner in Calabria? Which government should we work with? With what this morning, by the voice of Minister Hope, said that the ESM is indispensable or with what, by the voice of Minister Di Maio - both respectable - says that it is not really talked about? Before appealing for cooperation and unity, you should be clear, because this evening, when some doctors and some exhausted nurses will return home and turn on the television, Mr President, they will be watching the following scene: while the Premier at TG1 explains that there is no problem, the whole world envy and the situation is under control, a banner runs under, asking doctors to make themselves available because there is an emergency and there are not enough doctors, and we continue to say no to resources earmarked for health care. For these reasons, invite us when you want to raise the country, not when you want to bring it to your knees permanently. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u62	Mr President, this report accompanies the fifth budgetary deviation, an operation built entirely on 2020, which has been unpublished for our country: there is no memory in the articulation of the Republic of the management of a phase so complex that it requires five structural interventions such as these, which have changed the balance of public finances in a very short period of time. I want to say immediately that we feel responsible and we share the value that the government has taken to address the emergency, in its fundamental principles: to protect the work; to leave no one in solitude; to promote the liquidity of companies, which are a heritage of our country and our community so that, they are in a position to withstand the impact of a pandemic that, hiding inside a terrible virus, not only was not predictable, but certainly did not provoke a cyclical and economic crisis manageable with the ordinary tools of public finance and the economy. I say this to my colleagues in the opposition: first of all, we must realize that we are in an emerging phase that Europe is going through the world in its entirety and will change much of the economic and social dynamics of our communities. We feel represented by the measures that the Government has introduced to overcome this crisis, because we have to make a qualitative leap in keeping emergency management together with a more precise project to get out of the emergency itself and the crisis. We need, that is, to accompany these shared principles and values with a more precise idea of how we will emerge from the crisis and it will be a different exit. That is why I find that the commonplaces in the past are no longer in a position to represent the future. [[Applause]] To live in the future it is not necessary to claim ideologies of the past distant light years from our need to give a concrete answer. I could give a few examples. I hear a contrast in my ears, in my work, between guaranteed and not: but what does it mean? I believe that no one can think of referring to those who work in the public (a doctor, a nurse or a teacher) as persons guaranteed. I continue to believe that there is a legacy of the past and I obviously consider it wrong, in the course of a pandemic crisis like this, to strike, but it is essential to free ourselves from the virus of inappropriate and useless terms that indicated separation between public and private work, between enterprise, capital and labour, between the market and the State. This crisis shows us a new need: labour and capital are closer and no more distant than the past and need new reformist initiatives to be able to unite and not divide; we need to overcome the roots of the past, because for us VAT matches and self-employment are not a legacy of avoidance and tax evasion, but a fundamental part of the undertaking, necessary to bring the country out of the crisis, to build new work and new employment. That is why - and I am addressing the Minister and the majority in the first place - we need to clarify more clearly our profile as a country coming out of the pandemic. This does not mean that there is no room to improve in terms of efficiency and effectiveness: the ristori decrees are born to give an immediate and timely response to economic dynamics which, moreover, compared to the first wave, in the second are even more complicated, because all the relapses have elements of complexity even more delicate to deal with than those of the first wave of the epidemic. Nevertheless, we are faced with extraordinary opportunities to move more quickly in this direction. To give some examples, I believe that on the subject of health we need to take possession of territorial medicine, a project that puts Italian citizens in a position to understand that the State and the Government are working to bring medicine into the territorial dimension. [[Applause]] We need to go beyond the chorus, about guaranteed and not guaranteed, and we also need to overcome the mentality that in fact has always led us to think about reducing spending and blocking recruitment. We need to tell our young people that taking up the health and medical profession is not a choice that pushes to loneliness, but it responds to the extraordinary need to bring the right to health into territorial medicine, that is to say to people's home. We cannot say one day that in order to get out of the crisis the first response must be of a health nature, that is, to secure the right to health, and not have a more precise and punctual plan on how to restructure the health system. That is why we can attract European resources. If we have a project, we must attract European resources. We must have no difficulty in discussing ideologically the new face of Europe, but first we must clearly indicate where the resources are needed, where they are to be used and what improves in terms of the right to health for our citizens. This is the first step to take. The second is that we must take advantage of that new face of Europe. I remember that this parliamentary term, unfortunately, began on the no to Europe, on the no to the euro, on the no to science and, in many cases, even with a contrast on the issues of vaccination. I think we are all aware today of the need not only for Europe but also for science and knowledge. Thanks to science, in fact, we will be able to guarantee to all Italian citizens an exit from the pandemic. We've turned this upside down. We're proud of that. That is why I think we need to speed up the idea of how to use it from this crisis and of what economic and social profile to offer Italians to give a security response, because recovering the terms of confidence is indispensable for the new economic dynamics. We need to accelerate investment. We make no mistakes, thinking of stopping at the projects. We need to get to the bottom of the process to make an investment. We have to reduce the time. That is why the new European dynamics must also offer us the conditions to return to giving value to the public administration, which must improve in efficiency and competitiveness, but must be a good word again, not a centre of waste and cost: it is the largest and most important necessity we have to give speed to processes and efficiency to procedures. There is a difference: just as a vaccine is not vaccination, so a project is not the public work carried out; there is the role of the state, which must be in the conditions to ensure effectiveness and efficiency. I am very pleased to note the address I saw: the passage from yesterday's abstention vote in the Commission by the right centre to today's vote in favour of the House. It is the signal that our ideas, which called for unity and responsibility in the general interest of the country, have finally found a correct path. It is a good move, from yesterday's abstention in the Commission to today's vote in favour: it means that this time they win Italy and national responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u64	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, fellow senators, we thought that after October, after the last deviation of some EUR 22 billion, there was no need for this debt instrument today, partly because the government, on that occasion, once again assured us that the situation was under control. But, alas, that was not the case, because we are once again here today to vote on further debt. In the report to Parliament that we are going to vote today, we are told, precisely, by Prime Minister Conte, that the reasons are the need to support the productive groups and citizens affected by this second wave of the pandemic. At this moment, because we are talking about budgetary deviation, I absolutely do not want to make any controversy about the choices made by the Government in these weeks to divide Italy also in color. This new closure of our country today, however, needs extraordinary measures to support, at this particular moment, the incomes of traders, artisans, companies, freelancers and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our country. Eight billion euros to provide for a new ristori decree; we have done the first, the second, the third and the fourth: we, once again, do not share this way of making measures "a stew"; what we have always asked and which we have offered as a collaboration to the Government is to have instead an overall vision. Our position today therefore remains consistent, because once again, as we have done before, we have expressed our opinion in favour of debt. There is debt and debt, though. We are leaving debts to future generations, but today we must qualify the choices we make, with the possibility, which was given to us at the last minute, to incorporate the proposals and demands of the opposition that go in this direction. We have imposed ourselves, as a centre-right political force, to ask the Government to acquire our proposals. As I said, we have never shared the way of dividing the measures, because we are now crossing the threshold of 100 billion in debt and 100 billion in budgetary deviation. You have made so many measures and in this way you have depowered that firepower that has been announced many times; still today, so many measures are struggling to take off and have not yet arrived at the capillaries of our country, that is, directly to citizens and businesses. The pandemic in recent months has destroyed the productive fabric of our country, which - as I said - is based on small and medium-sized enterprises, crafts, commerce and freelancers. These resources must be allocated to them and only to them today; to these categories which we consider to be poorly protected by our system today, or rather, even more so, neglected by the measures launched by this Government. In this situation, not only in these weeks, but since March and from the very beginning, we have shown our full cooperation. Finally, what we had always indicated as the best way, that is, to listen to everyone, to accept the proposals of oppositions and above all to open up to new ideas, has been persecuted. We're not gonna stop here. Now the debate on financial maneuver opens, which is important precisely to look at the new generations and the future of our country. We will continue to pursue the best way, in the only and only interest of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u65	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u66	Mr President, the Government once again asks us to examine the request for a budgetary deviation, which is now 8 billion. Many of them have already been approved, and the question I believe we all have to answer is this: is the deviation necessary? Is it useful to the country? Is it crucial to respond to the serious crisis we are facing? These questions have only one answer and it is in the affirmative: the deviation is absolutely necessary. The underlying issue, however, as we have always pointed out, is not so much debt. It is obvious that it is a damage to the budgets and to the future of our country to be indebted for these huge sums, but it is the dramatic period that we are living to demand it. But we have always put a theme: how do you spend this money? [[Applause]] We have placed it since the first time and we immediately tried to make our contribution, but, beyond a availability of facade, both in the Commissions and at the level of government, the answer has always been elusive; we have never had the satisfaction of seeing our proposals accepted and not even of having them taken into consideration. The feeling is that you have always pretended to want to listen to us and open a dialogue, exclusively to give the country a beautiful feeling and a beautiful image of your attitude [[Applause),]] However, it was made of fiction and falsehood, which unfortunately belongs to many of your government's representatives, first of all - allow me, this is my feeling and my conviction - to your President-in-Office of the Council. There is a beautiful image of facade, but in essence there is nothing good for the country nor anything useful to comparison with oppositions. It is necessary, this deviation, because within a little less than thirty days you have approved four refreshment decrees, demonstrating your approximation, the lack of strategy, the lack of understanding of the gravity of the situation that we are experiencing, in an eternal chase to face the economic problems of the country. This confusing state of the government cannot be allowed and we could not allow you to proceed to a ristori plan based on the colors of the regions: it is unacceptable. [[Applause]] No to refreshments based on red, orange and yellow zones, which vary from week to week. No to the lottery of the colors; yes instead according to the decrease of the turnover: this is the right and sacrosanct basic criterion that must be used from North to South [[Applause]] , in the yellow, red, orange and all the colors that you want to attribute to the territorial authorities. It is the only criterion that can be used and on which we have also insisted in the Commission. This will be the test case: if you use this criterion, you will obviously only have our approval in the next steps. If that is not the case and for the umpteenth time you will mock us, I believe that this will be the last time we can participate in the assumption of responsibility to proceed with the budgetary deviations. This deviation is absolutely necessary, because in recent months you have completely forgotten the drama that are experiencing self-employed workers, VAT matches, artisans, traders, entrepreneurs and seasonal workers without employment. [[Applause]] Everyone is suffering the damage of this pandemic from a health, emotional and psychological point of view, every citizen of this country and every citizen of the world; on an economic level it is undeniable that someone is paying them more than others. I have never believed and - not even - the League to the contrasts between civil servants, self-employed and private employees: we are all on the same boat, especially at such a dramatic time, and we owe a thanks to all the civil servants who are guaranteeing the fundamental services to our country, from school to the Forces of Order in particular and to public health, who are under pressure day by day and on the front. [[Applause]] Our unconditional thanks go to them, but it is undeniable that from an economic point of view someone has the guaranteed salary (at least that security has it) and someone else is in a black and total crisis for months now and can no longer stand up to what we are living. [[Applause]] It is for this reason that we have insisted from the beginning that interventions should be directed to these categories, to those who produce wealth and work, pay taxes (proportionate, but pays them) and try to honour their role as a taxpayer, but at this moment it is now at the limit. [[Applause]] We also call for action at European level to ensure fairness in the management of the winter tourist season. Look that in our mountains either you allow yourself to work or, even there, will have to be guaranteed compensation for everyone. The underlying theme - and here the irony really does not need - is not whether to take holidays or go skiing; the theme is the companies that are supporting mortgages, even very high, and risk failure. [[Applause]] The theme is seasonal workers without work, the firm and paralyzed induced and families in difficulty: in the face of this need you have to respond and you have to do so at European level. The country is suffering and you are always acting late, in distress and without a clear strategy. There is a dramatic example of all that represents the inconsistency of this Government: I refer to the Commissioner for Health in Calabria. It was very serious that he was not even aware of his own roles or that he had to launch an anti-Covid plan, but - allow me - it is even more dramatic that the government has appointed him and that, after days, he has not yet found a substitute worthy of this name. [[Applause]] You are an accomplice to that commissioner and his delays and this represents more than any other element the ineffectiveness and inconsequence of your Government. The 100 billion you have spent, often badly, and few, too few have gone to the reduction of taxes. Winter is long. You want to last - this is your goal - until the end of the legislature, in 2023. The problem, however, is not the duration of the government, but the holding of the country, which you are not up to guarantee. We'll do our part, as we've always done. This is not the first budgetary deviation we face; you know that we have always approved them, guaranteeing our vote, which, in one case, has also been decisive. In fact, the 161 necessary votes, at least on one occasion, were guaranteed by the center-right and our sense of responsibility towards the country. We have never hindered the work of the Commission and this House and we have made our contribution. I believe that this Government and this majority do not deserve our trust, but the country, citizens and families need economic help and we, even with our contribution, will ensure that they receive what is right and necessary to overcome this unprecedented crisis. The League is there and will play its part, together with the center-right; we will never subtract from confrontation and always assume our responsibilities. In conclusion, we have not changed our attitude, as Mr Missa said. Our attitude has never changed and has always been consistent: to make proposals, to vote on deviations and not to hinder parliamentary activities. What has changed is the address of the Government, which stated that the resources allocated in this deviation will finally go in the right direction, so that the huge and boundless audience of VAT matches, autonomous, traders, artisans, small entrepreneurs and all the employees and seasonal workers who work for them is guaranteed by an Executive that so far, for them, has done little or nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to open a window on the issues covered by the 7th Commission, in which I honour to sit, which deals with public education, cultural goods and activities and live entertainment. With regard to the question of the refreshments and the many support that the Government has courageously put on the field in recent months, also with regard to the live entertainment sector, for example, the problem related to the Ateco codes has emerged. Also from there came the request to evaluate the transition to a supply chain perspective. In fact, if the Ateco codes could be useful in the emerging framework and in the need to provide economic support at the most appropriate times possible, in the context of an emergency that clearly no one could foresee (otherwise it would not have been so), today perhaps we should start to reason instead in terms of supply chain, in order to make sure that these supports actually reach the whole audience of workers and enterprises - which also exist in the world of entertainment and culture - that need support. Among these, I absolutely ask you not to forget the private theatres, which perform an absolutely essential function, not only to delight us in our free time, but also for everything that the theatre teaches us every time we set foot, in terms of reading ourselves, of society and of the time we live in. Alongside this, I would also like to draw attention to some more structural demands that have come, namely the extension of the bonus and tax credits and the de-taxation of cultural consumption, precisely because consuming culture is an essential asset and, as such, must be treated and we must promote the use of it as much as possible, especially among the least well-off groups. Finally, I am also thinking of a remodulation of certain VAT rates and an extension of certain tax credits, because there are sectors which do not yet enjoy this measure. However, I would also like to turn to what I consider to be the most compelling situation: the one that concerns the live performance and its workers, because, as I will not tire of repeating, in this pandemic phase the drama of the absence of a welfare system dedicated ad hoc to these workers who do not have a normal form of work, that is, are so-called atypical, and therefore need a welfare system designed ad hoc. I would like to thank the Members of the House, Mrs Gribaudo and Mr Carbonaro, who have deposited a bill. In this connection, I should like to add a few words: we absolutely must continue to pursue parliamentary work in the Commissions, even beyond the examination of the emergency measures. [[Applause),]] because, alongside emergency interventions, we cannot help but reason in perspective, and this is the moment because time is running out. In fact, the Constitution provides for a five-year legislature (we did not decide in this majority), so we would all like to come to the end of the legislature in order to have the time to put in place this planning and not to start from the way everything was before, because it was not good. So, I was talking about an ad hoc welfare for the entertainment workers, but it is also necessary to resume the examination of the related bill on the live show and implement immediately the practicable norms of Law No. 175 of 2017, the so-called code of the show. In particular, there are sectors, such as dance, which have been waiting for those measures for decades, as well as other sectors. The deviation that we are voting on today and all those measures of refreshment fall within the framework of elements that also provide for the budget law, which is beginning its process in the House. Unfortunately, I regret to note that from a cake chart, compared to the resources we decide to use in the budget law, the environment and culture still have a chick slice. This should not be the case, because in addition to the social crisis that will follow this pandemic crisis there will also be the climate crisis that is destined to impact on our cultural heritage. I am here today because the workers of the show must be represented here and we must be their voice; but we must be even more the voice of those who have no voice, that is, of all our artistic and architectural heritage that has no voice, but that tells us our history, fills us with beauty, stimulates us the intellect and always improves, grows and develops us. We, in fact, are Italians and the whole world recognizes us our Made in Italy, because that beauty has the right to be protected even just for the intangible wealth that we represent ourselves as a people. I would therefore ask you not to neglect this element. When I came to the conclusion, Mr President, an anecdote whose foundations are uncertain tells us that one day one of the extraordinary talents we gave to this world gave a hammer to his sculpture and asked her to speak; then today I take the burden of speaking for that heritage and asking you not to forget it. A few days ago, about the anniversary of the earthquake in Irpinia, an interview was re-presented that Lina Wertmüller gave to Martin Scorsese, whose family has Irpine origins. He said that, for Italians like him who no longer live in Italy and will no longer return to those places, knowing that those places keep their beauty intact, knowing that there is still that monument, that there is still that shop - I mean the crafts and our knowledge - that there are still that cinema and that theatre still makes them feel Italian and makes them feel that the beauty of Italy... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] We must not forget this for a revival of this country and of all the professions related to it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u69	The debate is closed. I note that the following motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1, by Senators Bagnai and Tosato, No 2 (text 2), by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and No 3, by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani, whose texts are distributed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u70	Mr President, the debate reveals an important direction that is given to the government in order to proceed with this new deviation, with aims that have been clarified by the different groups and that I hope the government can take into account in a broad and comprehensive way, precisely to give satisfaction to Parliament itself. If it is possible to have the texts of the motions for resolutions tabled, we can also give the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u71	I'm on distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u72	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to thank the senators and senators who have spoken in the debate on a particularly significant shift in economic and financial policy choices. It is not by chance that Article 81 of the Constitution requires votes on budgetary deviations not to be approved by a simple majority, but by a majority of the members of the House and Senate of the Republic. The ratio of this paragraph to Article 81 is, in fact, an invitation to the search for a broad sharing in Parliament on choices that involve consequences that affect not only the present but also future generations. We are talking, in fact, about debt demands that result in greater public debt. The request for greater indebtedness follows similar requests voted by Parliament from March onwards, as was mentioned. The first was 20 billion euros, the second of 55 billion euros, the third of 25 and the latter is 8 billion euros and brings the total of permissions required by the Government to Parliament to 108 billion euros. This is an unprecedented amount; it is the equivalent of five budget laws, as has also been mentioned in today's debate. It is an extraordinarily high amount of resources in the face of an exceptional health, economic and social situation. The pandemic first invested Italy in Europe with a first terrible wave in March, April and May. For a few weeks Europe and our country have been facing a second wave, which we are facing with painful restrictive measures, but different from those we were forced to adopt at the beginning of March. In fact, in the meantime we have built and shared with the Regions a monitoring system, that we did not have available at the beginning of the pandemic and that today has allowed us to differentiate the restrictive measures, from the territorial point of view, in relation to the gravity, Region by Region, of the epidemiological data and has allowed us to limit, partially or totally, the activity of some economic sectors, but maintaining open the majority of the economic activities of the Country, unlike the strongly restrictive measures, that we were forced to adopt in March. This new model of security measures, which we have adopted since the DPCM at the end of October and especially at the beginning of November, is producing some first positive results. It should be stressed that a principle of maximum caution and caution must be maintained, but the data, which are daily provided and evaluated by the management cabin, indicate that there is no longer the exponential growth of the contagions and pressure on the hospital system, which we recorded until a few days ago. This does not mean that we have to deal with the economic consequences of the restrictive measures, which have been taken to deal with this second wave. These are economic consequences, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has indicated, but also the Bank of Italy in its hearing, less heavy than those that the economy has suffered from from March onwards, but they are nevertheless significant and particularly painful economic consequences for the economic activities directly involved by the restrictive measures. It is for this purpose that we have gradually adopted three restorative decrees, which are being examined by the Senate of the Republic. We have taken a series of measures, because we have tried to build a mechanism of support and refreshment, which takes into account this new model of containment of the pandemic, differentiated by economic sector and territory. These three decrees have put resources in place, which have largely exceeded the figure of EUR 10 billion. It is clear, however, that those resources are not sufficient to deal with and restore, as much as necessary, the economic activities affected by these restrictive measures, and it is for this reason, to fully support those who are impacted by restrictive measures, that the Government today calls for a new deviation of 8 billion euros. I have recorded with great appreciation the climate and the sharing content of the majority forces and the opposition forces, towards this request of the Government. I believe this is a very important step from the political point of view, which responds positively to the appeals of the Head of State and to the country's expectations of a choral response of politics, which does not cancel the differences of assessment and proposal of the opposition forces, towards the work that the Government has put in place in recent months, but which involves a common assumption of responsibility, in a difficult phase for the country. I would like to stress that this is a sharing that comes down to a conversation that has been held these days with the opposition forces for the use of these 8 billion euros; the interlocation that collects the sensitivity expressed by all the parliamentary forces, in particular those of opposition, towards an intervention that responds to that part of the country that does business, that carries out its work independently and independently, that is suffering particularly the consequences of this crisis due to the pandemic and that is less protected by the social protection network. The will of the government, the will of the majority but also of the opposition is not only to not enlarge a social divide that risks to occur in this country, but also to work with all the instruments of support that we can put on the field to keep this country together, to keep him cohesive in a particularly difficult phase. This is why we will devote almost all the resources to an intervention on the tax field, to postpone the tax deadlines foreseen from 30 November onwards, the second deposit Irpef, Ires and Irap, the VAT payments, the payments of contributions, the payments of withholding taxes, of course favouring those who suffer significant decreases in turnover. We have a duty to be selective and to use taxpayers' resources - which we ask Parliament in this case - to help those who are most in need. We build an intervention that looks first of all at that part of the country using the instrument of deferment of these payments. The intercourse, which has been reflected in the content of the resolutions before Parliament, also calls into question the mechanism of restors. At this stage we built restaurants based on the Ateco codes because this was the tool to get resources as quickly as possible to the activities directly impacted in the absence of turnover data. Today, in fact, we do not have the updated data that will allow us to understand who in November - when the restrictive measures started - has had losses of turnover and who not. That is why we have built a mechanism that started from the grant, defined by the decree-law relaunch, giving additional resources to the activities directly concerned. A mechanism certainly imperfect, but that was chosen for the speed of execution. Yesterday the Revenue Agency announced that it had completed the payment of the ristori to all the activities, to all the codes Ateco identified from the first decree-restori laws, and in the next few days these contributions will be followed by the categories, the activities identified from the successive measures. It is clear, however, that we - thinking in a perspective that does not directly concern this deviation - must imagine for the immediate future a more general mechanism of support for the world of self-employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, the freelancers, VAT matches; a mechanism that looks at what has actually happened in recent months (and we will know this, however, not now, but since January) and that provides a form of significant support for this crucial piece of the world of Italian labour that cannot rely on the Cassa Integrazione nor on social protection tools that instead protect employee work, as our welfare model is organized today. These are the guidelines that will inspire the choices that the Government will submit to Parliament for the use of resources; they are the choices of perspective on which we renew the invitation to dialogue to all parliamentary groups, of majority and opposition, to continue - it is the hope I feel to make here - a path of sharing the effort of economic policy to support businesses and families that we will have to continue in the coming months. Colleagues, there have been positive news on vaccine research, which sees the European Union and Italy playing a leading role. Minister Hope will present to Parliament on 2 December the plan for the distribution of vaccines in our country, but we will have to tighten our teeth for many more months. We have a duty to make a statement of truth to the Italians and to assume the responsibility, on the economic policy front, to continue the measures to support companies and families looking at the emergency. At the same time - but we will do this first in the debate on the budget law - we have to build a medium- to long-term project that relaunches development in our country. This is the work we are all called to do in this difficult phase of the country's life and I am very pleased that from all the parliamentary groups also in the Senate came a positive response that the Government can only emphasize with great appreciation. It is on the basis of these considerations that I welcome motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2), which was first signed by Senator Marcucci, and I call on the authors to withdraw motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 3. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u74	Would the rapporteur, Senator Beginini, like to add something?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u75	Mr President, I believe that Deputy Minister Misiani has given a very precise and timely description of the work he has done over the last few months and also of the reasons that have inspired the Government to request this new budgetary deviation. And while "incubating" it, political forces faced and expressed the need to devote these resources primarily to those who had not yet had adequate refreshments, so the world of VAT matches, self-employed workers and traders. It seems to me that the government has accepted the call from all the political forces in Parliament, therefore, in relation to the texts of the motions for resolutions which have been tabled, I would ask the Groups, if possible, to recognize themselves in the text of motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u79	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been pointed out in the Commission, the negative figures of these weeks are offset by the strong cyclical rebound of the summer months. The question was whether a further deviation of 8 billion was really necessary compared with a picture substantially identical to that provided for in the Update Note. The answer is that the new wave of the pandemic will negatively affect 2021 with a rebound of GDP that will not exceed 5%. The other element is called uncertainty: the one about the time of delivery of the recovery fund resources and the one about the time of containment of the pandemic with the arrival of the vaccine. Therefore, this deviation responds to a prudential principle that is absolutely acceptable to us; I say more, it will certainly not be the last. The productive sector during the summer months has shown a resilience that must encourage us for the future, provided that appropriate choices are made. So today the issue is that of the relationship with the tax authorities of citizens, freelancers and businesses. We must put in place tools not to send companies into liquidity crisis, also helping them to close the old disputes, for example by withdrawing interest, moratories and renegotiating debts, especially for small folders, suspension of payments and extension of deadlines, starting with those foreseen here at the end of the year. Let me open a little parenthesis. Businesses, traders, craftsmen, self-employed workers and VAT matches are also suffering tremendously from the bans on activities imposed with DPCM, albeit just. It is time to learn how to live with this virus: prohibitions were necessary; some of them will also be necessary in the coming months, but political responses must also be given. As the ban is the simplest political response, we must start to find proactive responses; as economic activities are allowed by strict security protocols. If we continue with the simple bans, after the first wave of the pandemic in spring and the second wave now shortly we will face the third wave, that of the failures and closures of the companies; and then in the face of the fourth wave, that of unemployment and poverty. We must aim to build more and more timely and efficient measures. For example, the ristori decree is giving better evidence of the speed of delivery of resources than the first measures, but it has been less efficient in defining the audience of beneficiaries with all the discourse of the Ateco codes, when instead the only principle should be that of the loss of turnover. Then there are more general and medium-long-term goals from which we must never look away, starting with the sustainability of our public debt. Today the Government relies so much on the recovery fund that with the budget law it estimates a positive fiscal feedback so much to include these resources in the public finance balances. As has been said in the Commission, it is a risk element, partly because the resources are used to cover not extraordinary interventions, but structural policies. Italy can no longer afford to return to that low growth, but for me the main point is another, that is what will happen to Italy if, after the end of the phase of economic exceptionality that we will live with the recovery fund, these projects will not be able to determine a change of pace in the levels of growth of the Country. This is the game that is played because the low growth has marked Italy in the last twenty-five years for a very simple reason. After this phase we will find ourselves with a public debt of thirty points higher, so we cannot Let's have it. This debt, at that point, would be a real boon to any government and any policy, regardless of the evolution of the European framework, i.e. the interventionism or not of the ECB, the will or not of the European institutions to return to the season of financial rigour. What I'm saying is that we play the game of life with the recovery fund. That is why we must put in place, with the necessary involvement of Parliament and the territories, the regions and the municipalities, a plan of projects that are up to the challenge, that do not disperse resources in so many small and medium-sized interventions without any multiplier effect or qualitative leap of the system. Also because in the meantime there are other states that have much more efficient bureaucracy than our public administration. My first concern, in setting up the planning, is efficiency, or rather the lack of efficiency of our public administration system that must be qualified soon because the 122 billion planned we really have to use them (there are 209 billion in all, 122 of which are refreshments). The delay, also in terms of competitiveness and productivity, if we do not implement positive policies also for public administration, would make the differential with other countries unbreakable. This is above all, let me say, for the mountain which pays more than all the price of the new restrictions and on which it would perhaps be useful to open a reflection on the closures of these weeks. The political points are these: not the ideological debate on the ESM and the 37 billion which would be a mistake, from my point of view (respect for any other position), not to take. Finally, Mr President, the Autonomous Group will vote in favour of the budgetary deviation. We understand and support the prudential principle that moves the Government because of the uncertainty about the pandemic trend. At the same time, we believe that on recovery fund projects there is no longer a minute to lose. We enjoyed the address lines. Now is the time for the draft plan, with the necessary confrontation and involvement of Parliament, Regions Provinces and Municipalities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u82	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the challenge facing Italy for the coming months is growth. It is in the name of this imperative that we should also plan our action in relation to how we will spend the resources we release through the budgetary deviation that we are about to vote on. A vote, today's vote, that we would have gladly spared ourselves a year after the beginning of the pandemic because we know well that budgetary deviation means nothing more than new indebtedness. The beauty of an additional 8 billion to add to that mountain of debt, 2,583 billion, which makes our public debt the second largest in the European space after Greece. In other words, we are giving our children and grandchildren another bad gift; we continue to aggravate a legacy that is already very salty for the country and for the younger generations. However, it is not possible to do otherwise since we must try to stem the dramatic crisis caused by the first and, now, by the second wave of coronavirus infections, a health and economic crisis of disastrous size. That is why, while increasing expenditure, it is our duty to at least try to contain the damage by doing the impossible to ensure that the additional debt we are going to produce serves, for the most part, to finance investment and structural reforms, so that these huge resources can, at least in part, benefit the new generations, for example, in so far as they contribute to the achievement of a modern, more livable, healthier and even more attractive society for tomorrow's citizens. This is a good thing that we envisage a series of measures in favour of parenthood, reconciliation between the world of work and the family regardless of gender. In fact, it is urgent that in Italy children return to the world in order to guarantee the maintenance of the pension system, but also to avoid human desertification in entire territories, in the South of Italy, as well as in Apennine or peripheral areas. Our country must return to being a child-friendly place, that is, a welcoming country for all. The measures we have taken to protect the environment to promote the circular economy and waste disposal are also in the right direction, i.e. to limit the impact of climate change and to make our economy more sustainable. Just as we are optimistic about the positive feedback that will come from having introduced a strong decontribution for the recruitment of young people and women and that we do by helping companies that have the courage to invest, freeing them from the payment of social security charges, that is, making recruitment of new staff more convenient. This means creating opportunities for so many young people who for years had no other prospects than emigration and, at the same time, helping healthy businesses to start again to start working again and look to the future. The real challenge to be overcome, from here to the next few years, is productivity; instead, asking for debt cancellation now would risk being counterproductive because it would mean transmitting the image of a country that is not credible. The road to recovery is economic recovery, and we must invest in this. After months in which in the successive decrees we have deliberated interventions aimed at dealing with the emergency, more and more we begin opportunely to put in field also investments and it is urgent that it is so. The pandemic forced us to intervene with the largest public spending plan since the post-war period, trying to strengthen the national health system, creating places of intensive care, hiring medical and nursing personnel and enhancing research on vaccines. We have then tried to overcome the situations of major economic difficulties resulting from the lockdown, with the extension of the integration fund as a derogation for all those workers who have been out of work due to the pandemic, with resources lost to those who have lost their income because of the Covid-19 and with the postponement of tax obligations, payment of mortgages, deadlines of utilities. In short, a series of measures to deal with the serious situation caused by the Covid-19, because the months of lockdown have caused disruptive effects on the Italian economy, with a sudden fall of around 10% of GDP and with a recovery that is supposed to be only partial next year, at best between 4% and 6%. The pandemic, among other things, has unfortunately had paralyzing consequences for entire production sectors, from tourism to receptive activities to catering, also following the sharp decrease in tourist flows to Italy and also the industrial sector is suffering, also following the strong reduction of export caused by the spread of Covid also in many foreign countries. The same applies to the trade sector, which in turn has contracted by around 21%, even as a result of the sharp fall in consumption. With the measures that we have gone away to deliberate, like Italy Viva we have insisted - and we continue to do so - that we move from emergency aid to measures that have a different approach, an impulse to recovery and investment for the future. I am thinking of the simplification measures aimed at facilitating the reopening of public infrastructure yards but also of the tax benefits we have introduced to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, as well as the responses to digital innovation across the country. All incentives from which it will be possible to derive great impulses for the economy. It is on innovations of this kind that we must progressively aim so as to encourage an acceleration of the process of modernization, intervening immediately also on all those zavores that for decades have managed to harness Italy, beginning with bureaucracy, the slowness of justice, the twisted taxation, the cumbersomeness of part of the public administration. Instead, we must focus on investments that benefit the new generations and help to make our system more welcoming and profitable. This is the only way to make sense of the new budgetary deviation that we are preparing to vote on, and it is a good hope and we very much appreciate the fact that Forza Italia and the oppositions all, as we have often hoped for, have decided to take a constructive attitude, lowering their tones and voting in favour of the budgetary deviation, because the challenge is arduous and facing it together will certainly help us to overcome it better for the good of the country and our children. For this reason we hope that today's vote will inaugurate a new season of dialogue and greater collaboration, in such a complicated historical phase, in which we feel the need for a spirit of national unity. It must also be added, Mr President, that the fact that we have to be in debt again for such a high amount makes us realize how much we need to use the ESM, for a matter of costs first, because the ESM is much more convenient than any other form of credit. The multi-annual treasury bills, with which we finance our debt, for example, have a much higher interest cost. At the last issue, a BTP cost 0.7%, while the ESM costs -0.24, with a differential of 1.03 percent more spending, which means that if we use all the 36 billion ESM available we could save 370 million a year for a ten-year period, namely that we could spend a total of 3.7 billion less, a gigantic figure, almost half the budget deviation that we are about to vote on in a few minutes. That is, we could save half of the new debt that we are going to write today and no one understands why we should not avoid this waste, since we already have such a high public debt. [[Applause]] In addition, we should also use the ESM for an issue of immediate availability of resources, which could be forfeited immediately, but the funds of the Next Generation EU and other European programmes are likely to be available only with serious delays due to the vetoes placed by Poland and Hungary, as Minister Amendola confirmed just this morning. This means that Italy too will have to wait a long time to be able to receive this funding materially, which would not be necessary if we were to use the funds provided for in the ESM. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the time for referrals is over, huge resources are needed. Our health system is again collapsed, there is a need for doctors, nurses, intensive therapies, telemedicine, there is a need for funds to finally put an end to the pandemic and the MES can be the most convenient and fastest tool to try to do so. The situation is too dramatic and urgent to continue to oppose a purely ideological no, because not only are we called upon to spend well the resources we receive, but we also have an obligation to spend as little as possible, as we spend on the shoulders of our children and our children. [[Applause.]] 14.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u85	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, we are preparing - and this is not the first time - to vote on the budgetary deviation. This is not the first time - and I say this quite clearly - because we voted responsibly on the first and second budget deviations, allowing the government to use 20 billion first and then 55 billion more. Then, then, in front of what did we find ourselves? From the source of the government's failures, because the budgetary deviation is a new debt, which we all start by putting a serious mortgage on the common home of the Italians. We agreed to do so, initially for massive figures, in the face of the health and economic emergency. But our act of responsibility has not been followed by any act of the Government, because you have never responded to what we were asking for, that is, a real comparison on the amendments and, therefore, on the legislative rules, on how to compensate, on how to face the crisis and on how to create the conditions for economic recovery. Today we are not giving you credibility again, because this credibility - I am sorry, Mr Vice-Minister - you no longer have it. You are a bit like insolvent debtors, declared in your insolvency, because today we are voting, correspondingly, another budgetary deviation of EUR 8 billion, billion added to the previous ones, reaching the figure of EUR 108 billion. Today, in this House, you have made a specific commitment that these EUR 8 billion should be allocated, almost exclusively or, in any case, prevalent, to help those who have had little or nothing to date, namely businesses, families, self-employed persons, holders of VAT consignments, with a specific and clear measure, namely the suspension of payments and the postponement of tax deadlines. Well, this commitment of yours we want it to be specifically maintained, especially since it already announces us that there will be a further deviation in the budget; and all the more so in view of what is unfortunately happening with a financial maneuver which, to a large extent - as the Bank of Italy itself, the Parliamentary Budget Office and the Court of Auditors say - is highly risky to cover. And this is because it relies largely on what you yourself have announced in these classrooms in the last few days, i.e. the resources of the recovery fund, will probably delay over time. There is therefore a need for clarity. We expect that this time you will keep your commitment, that you will really go to the rescue of those who have had little or nothing until now, of those who are the real unsafe in this country, all the more so in the face of the measures that have blocked most of the productive activities, and, therefore, of those who work in the productive activities, of those who cannot now realize their revenues. This also happens in the face of what you have done. You mentioned the three restorative decrees first. Yes, it is true: 1.6 billion have already arrived. Out of 10 billion, 1.6 billion have come: better than what you have done in recent months, but always too little, all the more so in the face of the data that are communicated to us; data according to which since the beginning of the crisis, that is, since March, 544 companies close every day. There are 544 companies that close every day and the number of employees is reduced: by reducing the productive base and closing the enterprises, work contracts are also closed, besides those that have not been renewed for the folly of the decree dignity. Let's talk about a million less occupied. Well, in the face of this really difficult and dramatic situation, it is not enough to have resources in debt, which will have to be repaid anyway, but it is necessary that they be invested in the productive system, in order to really allow a recovery. The official sources tell us that we will close the year with a dry reduction of more than 10 points in gross domestic product and a debt of almost 2,600 billion. So less production, less employment, less gross domestic product and more public debt: we really risk the country's financial and social collapse. It is therefore necessary for there to be a change that you have not yet achieved, in the face of a Europe which - unlike what the left was just propaganda in this House - has changed, but not in the direction you wanted, but precisely in the direction that we were asking for even before the crisis. Europe changes when, in view of the dramatic situation, it finally realizes what we said before - even in a situation that was not the current one - that the Stability Pact needed to be revised. You didn't say it. We said it. Europe has even suspended the Stability Pact and this suspension has been extended for another year; we have two years to relaunch the country before the Stability Pact returns. But we hope that it will not come back and be truly reviewed from the very foundations. Europe changes not in the direction you wanted, but in the direction we wanted, when it issues eurobonds and shares the public debt. Even members of the majority begin to talk about the need to cancel the public debt. Even a President of the Council of this country, a Europeanist who studies and works in Paris, Enrico Letta, tells us that the ESM is of no use, because no one - and not by chance - has activated it in these five months. Let us ask ourselves why Spain, Portugal and France did not activate it. And he himself says to take the ESM money, which no one is activating, and to use it directly through the European Commission, because otherwise it is frozen and will remain frozen. It is you who are having an ideological debate about the ESM. Even some Presidents of the Council of this country, more aware, tell you to stop with this story, which is a useless flag, a false flag, and to go and pick up the resources where there are and especially to use them where they really serve. We expect you to change the financial maneuver. It is clear to everyone that this manoeuvre, in addition to being based in half on a promise that is not yet there and therefore to be at risk of cover, according to the Bank of Italy does not identify exactly what are the reforms that serve the country and does not have a clear line of fiscal policy. That is what the Bank of Italy says; that is what the Parliamentary Budget Office says; that is what the Court of Auditors says; that is what the country and businesses say. In the face of our yet another act of responsibility, we hope. I come back to the origins: it was we who asked you to make a significant budgetary deviation in the first measure, because I remind everyone that you did not understand the drama of the situation and had brought a measure from a handful of billions. Only in the face of the demands of the oppositions and of the Brothers of Italy did that measure take substance, with 20 billion debt. You always understand things with extreme delay, because you are far from the reality of the country. I hope that this time, in front of our umpteenth act of responsibility, you will really sit down and discuss, with a vision of the country, how to direct the resources that however there are. In fact, there are resources, both as debt, thanks to the initiative of the European Central Bank - even there has changed - and possibly as a recovery fund. It is important that these resources are directed to build what the country needs, so that businesses and families finally have the potential for a great relaunch. I say in conclusion: growth is not produced by decree - we all know it - but it can be blocked by decree and you have made a series of measures that have prevented growth. On the other hand, we want measures to be taken to enable the country to resume its growth with confidence. We certainly trust the country, not the government, with this budgetary deviation that means debt on everyone's shoulders and that we would like it to be shared in the choices, so that we can free them together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u88	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we as the Mixed Group will vote in favour of this fourth deviation. I am convinced that today we are taking a step forward in relation to the previous situation. It is true that the oppositions voted on the first two deviations - the third no, but the second yes - but in this fourth deviation, making it clear that it is not - as some colleagues have said of the oppositions - either an iniqucio or an attempt to confuse the role between majority and opposition, at last - I say finally, because I have supported it in all these months - I want to see the start of a new climate. And it starts without anyone giving up their criticism, objections and problems over the last few months, and perhaps we start working together. This is done, colleagues, to give a perspective and a future to our country, without prejudice to the different political positions; to tell the Italian citizens that this country has a perspective in change and innovation. With this deviation we will give a response to small and medium-sized enterprises, Italy of VAT matches and professionals. I do not share the narration for which nothing has been done to these subjects in recent months. You also know that it is not true: it is a wrong narration. However, this is certainly one of the most sensitive and critical points of the economic and social crisis that we are experiencing. And I think that, after the postponements of the VAT deadlines, social security contributions and IRPEF - fundamental since the first deadline would be 30 November - we must go further, as you anticipated - if I understood correctly - Deputy Minister Misiani. I am very convinced of the logic of the Ateco codes and of the fact that we have to build a real strategy that can work on the reduction of the billed ones, even using the tax lever. I am convinced of this and I think that in the coming months - already in January - we could work on this and make a fair and transparent operation. On the contrary, I hope that it will then be possible to verify and pay attention to those who have had and how much, as well as to the elements of injustice and injustice that are still evident in the actions we have taken. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that from this point of view we must challenge ourselves not to those who are more attentive to a fundamental part of the economy of this country, but to a great issue that the pandemic has further aggravated: I am referring to the fairness and the fight against injustices that so many VAT matches - for example - are undergoing in a work system that needs radical reform. Having said that, I would like to clarify two more points. We must first defeat the pandemic. Let us agree on something that I think is objective: defeating the pandemic is a priority for citizens' health, as well as for the economy. If the pandemic continues, the economy has not recovered. I hope that after these weeks the debate on the rules to be used has finally ended. The Covid is still there and we must learn intelligently to live with it. We avoid, then, in the morning being for reopenings and in the afternoon for closures. [[Applause]] We find a serious balance that can guarantee the management until the arrival of vaccines. We cannot forget August and our priorities. One absolute priority is school: it must be possible to resume lessons in safety and with all the guarantees, also exceeding the limits we have had in recent months on transport, alternative solutions in the area of classrooms and on a new timetable plan that we must build now and for the future. [[Applause]] Then we have to work on the strategy. First of all, a structural reform of health is needed, under Title V of the Constitution unchanged - at least for now - to restore a fundamental function of governance and direction to the Ministry of Health [[Applause),]] because the health system is national, public and universal. [[Applause]] Secondly, we invest in telemedicine on the ground. No one can say they're in charge on the ground. They do not command doctors of general medicine, nor the other professionals: they command and govern the ability to manage the epidemiological conditions of citizens. I would also like to address a proposal to both the majority and the opposition: with budgetary manoeuvre, please, we overcome all the constraints in the recruitment of health workers. Let's get past them and erase them. [[Applause]] These are wrong and ineffective constraints that create problems, as we have seen in recent months. We will discuss a new development model and recovery fund. That's fine. We discuss projects, where Italy goes; we strengthen the public system so that it is able to manage large investments to give productivity and quality to growth, a social and environmental quality, in order to restore a future to our country. The last major challenge is a new welfare. I hear a lot about public and private. The new welfare can only be a community welfare in which the different actors participate in the quality response of the citizens. But be careful: when we talk about children or the elderly, we don't talk about refrigerators or televisions; we need, therefore, an accreditation system such that there is no such thing that there are no quality doctors and staff in a family home to manage an elder. This is the real challenge of welfare reform, and not the old and inconclusive debate between the public and the private. We have so much to do, but I believe that, if this is the climate, we will actually be able to do what we have to do, to which the citizens have called us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u91	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators and my fellow senators, what we are about to vote on is the fifth budgetary deviation since the beginning of the crisis. We are now voting on deviations almost in the same way as we are voting on the timetable, and in the newspapers we are talking more about it for the numbers of votes in the Senate than for those of public finance. The proposals and demands of citizens and social partners accompanying other measures do not come to our e-mail boxes. It almost seems to be faced with a due act, a formal and bureaucratic step rather than a substantial one. It is quite incredible if we just think that the issue of public debt and public finance balances has been the cornerstone of economic policy in Italy and Europe in recent decades. Other governments and other parliaments have moved on the narrow path of the "zero comma" to try to counter growth and financial consolidation. The pandemic crisis has changed everything and it is right that it has, but this does not exempt us from considering all the implications of the choices we are taking, all the risks that will recur once we leave the pandemic if we do not accompany the budgetary choices with other political choices: in short, if we do not use the fiscal space that we are opening up well. The vote in favour of the opposition to this deviation is also a very positive fact, which allows us to move from the wrong numbers (the parliamentary margins) to the right themes (such as spending the resources that we are mobilizing soon and well). Compared to the 2008-2011 debt crisis, the European Union is moving in the right direction. Some errors of that time have been understood and the Commission has immediately suspended the Stability Pact and is starting, not without difficulty but with a strong underlying ambition, the Next Generation EU plan for an incisive and shared response to the crisis. As Mario Draghi has explained to us, it is the moment of good debt, even if we Italians - it would help us to admit it - in the past we have also been teachers of bad debt for electoral reasons rather than growth and social justice. Now, however, public budgets have to pay off private debts, which would otherwise choke families and businesses, undermining our economies. Good debt, however, will also have political and economic effects in the future, and not because we have to return it at maturity, as happens to families and businesses - public debt is different from private debt - but because public debt affects the choices that governments, businesses and families will be able to make in the future. By rightly using our sovereignty today to get out of the crisis, we are placing constraints on our sovereignty tomorrow, on what we could do after the pandemic to give answers to the citizens and we must be aware of that. It is time for the courage of choices, but courage requires a sense of responsibility, otherwise it becomes something else. The answer to the debts we are contracting today will only be one, if there is. And I don't think about economic growth, although, of course, without growth there is no debt sustainability. Growth, however, is a necessary and not sufficient condition for debt sustainability. It won't be enough alone. The answer is more Europe, more growth and more Europe. We need both: only one of these two things for us would risk not being enough and the two things are held together. Only if we make good use of the resources that Europe is making available to us will we be credible in calling for a qualitative leap in European construction, which is for all the Member States and not only for Italy. And only if Europe becomes a real fiscal union, which complements trade and monetary union, will our budgetary laws and reforms be able to find the necessary momentum to engage in sustained and sustainable growth. More growth and more Europe serve both and both hold together. Let's take the media theme of the cancellation of debts due to Covid. This is not the time for conservatism. We have to think about what seemed unthinkable a short time ago. Just as monetary policy is using exceptional instruments, fiscal policy can also draw exceptional instruments in the face of the exceptional nature of the crisis that we are experiencing, but thinking about the unthinkable cannot help but think about it. All the more so, when making exceptional proposals, we must think of all the economic and political consequences they entail. Slogans and appeals are not enough. We must not talk - for example - about cancellation because, unlike debts between states or international organisations - as in the case of many developing countries - we are talking about debts held largely by institutional investors and families, and I think no one wants to cancel them to make defaults at European or Italian level. We need to talk, if anything, about monetary sterilization or tax mutualisation of debts from Covid. If we want to talk about both things (monetary sterilization and mutualisation of debts), huge and difficult choices are required. A partial monetization of debts requires a modification of the European Treaties and of the mandate of the Central Bank, preserving its autonomy, and I stress this last aspect. A partial mutualisation of debts requires a real fiscal union that completes monetary union with a non-technocratic political authority, which places a piece of our taxes and debts at European level. If taxes and debts, the heart of economic sovereignty, do not move in part at European level, we do not get out of it: Europe does not come out of it because it will remain an unfinished building; Italy does not come out of it because, with our debt, we will have a burden whose costs sooner or later will become an unsustainable ballast. That is why the answers to the debts that we are facing today will not come from slogans, appeals or financial alchemies: they can only come from the conference on Europe and from a new idea of Europe. The time is now, because in politics phases two hardly ever exist, except in dreams or in the hypocrisies of those who invoke them. It is in the midst of a crisis like the one we face that we must re-launch the construction of Europe or we will not be able to do it tomorrow. Italy must take the lead in this battle for a new European fiscal sovereignty. And it must do so first of all with the credibility that only a national plan for recovery and serious resilience, feasible and based on clear priorities, can give us, and not for the conditions that some bureaucrats ask us, but for the choices that we, as Italians, want to make in the face of the crises and social injustices of this country. We must spend quickly and well every penny of the resources we are mobilizing, putting at the centre a sustained and sustainable growth and the hopes of millions of young people, who have left too much alone to bear the cost of the crisis, without investing in their opportunities, their training, the guarantee of their income entering the world of work, at such a dramatic time. Mr President, in announcing the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of the report presented by the Government, I repeat that this vote is not a formal act or a bureaucratic passage, but a choice we have lived with awareness and responsibility, with respect to all that it entails. Awareness and responsibility from tomorrow, we will put in the enormous challenges that open up: to spend well the Italian and European resources that we are mobilizing and building a fiscal and political Europe that completes the trade and monetary union, to achieve goals of growth, social justice and debt sustainability, for all of us and, not least, for future generations of Italians and Europeans. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u94	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is unfortunately still hit by the pandemic by Covid-19, in a war against a violent, devious and unfortunately invisible monster, which has already caused over 50,000 deaths. On the part of the government from the beginning there had to be a reaction - there was an attempt and we recognize it - and a contrast on the health, economic and social front. Timely reactions and risk planning were needed. From the beginning we were talking about the second phase and the second wave and we are already talking unfortunately about the third wave. Mr Vice-Minister is here to ask, on behalf of the Government, for a vote on the fourth budgetary deviation of EUR 8 billion. We have never opposed the previous requests for budgetary deviation, from EUR 20 billion, from EUR 25 billion and from EUR 55 billion, respectively. Now, with the current EUR 8 billion, we reach a total of EUR 108 billion. On the contrary - as in this case - we have made proposals, which the Government has not listened to: you have not faced each other and you have not discussed anything. You have simply chased the past, with messy closures and not easy to understand - at least for Italians - with yellow, orange and red zones, with refreshments to someone and not to someone else, realizing today that the codes Ateco, used in the first moment of emergency, do not work [[Applause]] , but also with bonuses some necessary and others, given the time we are, properly useless or at least questionable. Gentlemen of the Government, we understand the difficulties. However, we do not understand the fear of dealing with these issues. We do not understand the inability - at the total moment - to have a drawing of breath, to have the courage to think and challenge the future, to think about the following too. And that's what we're asking for. We know that the economy of the following will be different, and will be different for many reasons: because of technological change, because of the habits that have changed - however an impulse to the change of habits there is - for a series of processes of enterprise that have undergone a change, which will probably be even more accentuated. It must be accompanied and regulated, and the State needs revenue and not just debts. We say this responsibly: the State needs revenue and not just debts. That's why we tell you - and we do it in the interest of the Italians - as our President Berlusconi did a few days ago, which is time to turn the page: turn the page! [[Applause.]] So far we have seen decree-laws such as care Italy, liquidity, relaunch, decree-law August, simplifications. Now we are at Decree-Laws 1 (from about 5.4 billion), Restorations 2 (from about 2.5 billion), Restorations 3 of about two billion and, as a member of the Budget Committee, I say with much imagination about the coverage. At present we are at Decree-Laws 4 of 8 billion, announcing already that there will be a ristori 5, so with evaluations that we will make later. The proposals of Forza Italia, largely incorporated in the unitary resolution of the centre-right - and I thank the colleagues of the League and the Brothers of Italy - say enough to the confusion. [[Applause.]] No more confusion: first of all we need a white semester. Enough with rainy alms: refreshments are needed with reference to fixed costs. [[Applause.]] I would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur for the excellent work they have done on this subject. We need guarantee to those who are not guaranteed: artisans, professionals excluded from the decree-law relaunch [[Applause]] , holders of VAT consignments that in some cases - and there are many, unfortunately - are workers in contracts, and therefore completely comparable to employees in other sectors, some guaranteed in absolute (certainly, civil servants) and others guaranteed in the intervention of the Integration Fund where there is; subjects who must still pay the INPS and, when they arrive - there are about 9 million - the notorious debitory folders of the past. I would also like to mention those workers on the fringes of society who, for various reasons, have no right to citizenship income - your citizenship income - and no longer have work. [[Applause.]] Gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, looking forward means thinking about those who can't do it and the employees, who may now be guaranteed by the Integration Fund, but will no longer be guaranteed when the dismissals stop, and the anguish begins to take over. Lords of the Government, responsibly we of Forza Italia realize that not everything can be done, not everything can be refreshed; however, we can give peace and less anguish by showing that the State is and is at the side of its citizens. The White Semester requested by our President is also this. We have also shared with our colleagues, in the resolution signed by the opposition, the reopening of the break-up; just as we ask that those who have declared and, therefore, are not evaders should not be further punished and punished, but are unable - given the revenue - to meet their commitments. [[Applause.]] Today Forza Italia, on the indication of President Berlusconi, together with his colleagues in the centre-right, is here: critical but he proposes; he is here to evaluate the deviation and to vote for it, because when you are at war you do not distinguish yourself by color. As our president Anna Maria Bernini said in a speech, today we all wear the blue jersey, and I don't say it just because Sabaudo: the blue jersey of the Italian national team. [[Applause.]] For this reason, our vote will be in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority on budgetary deviation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u97	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us briefly summarize the previous episodes. We are at the fifth vote on a deviation: we have voted on one of EUR 20 billion, one of EUR 55 billion, one of EUR 25 billion and one of EUR 22 billion in the budget law (which is therefore next year's responsibility). We are going to vote - if this is news, I will give it to you - one of EUR 8 billion and we already know that one of EUR 20 billion will come. I'm saying this for those outside the palaces who didn't know how things were going. This already shows that in the government's strategy the approach has been at least fragmentary. From these benches someone in March asked you to reflect on the title of a book and asked you not to waste a crisis like this; the implicit request was to intervene in an incisive and timely manner. This didn't happen, but it's the past. Let's look at the present and see if we can observe an evolution. We note a positive evolution in the attitude of the Government. We have seen in this majority that something is finally beginning to be seen, but there is still much that is not right. I'll start by pointing out what's going on. There is a certain resistance, finally; there is a beginning of listening. The autonomouss, the professionals, finally enter the radar of this government. [[Applause.]] When I read "autonomous" in the text I thought it was an attack of rogue nostalgia, then instead, when I saw next to the word "workers", I realized that there was actually talk of unprotected, that so far this Government had a little left aside and sometimes I would say bullied with the mechanisms of click day. This is an act of fine, and there are so many good intentions in the majority text, undoubtedly. Another thing has also happened: that the expectation of lockdown is itself lockdown, and that therefore it was not possible to make so much difference between Ateco codes and between zones at a time when pessimism and even uncertainty - it has to be said, not if the honourable members of the government take it badly - spread with full hands by this Government, had led a little 'to a general depression of economic activity [[Applause),]] So these surgeries couldn't be completed. Well, I consider that to be a positive fact and it means one thing from a political point of view: the united centre is frightening by a divided majority. [[Applause.]] I would like to thank my fellow right-wing colleagues with whom I had the privilege of working these days in order to achieve a united position, which, however, was only partially taken up by the Government, despite a whole series of initial proposals. Many things have remained outside and to clarify why, on the other hand, it should have been kept inside I would like to make a brief reflection. You see, Mr President, in the Analog Middle Ages - what we all remember - distribution policy was done by Robin Hood, who used his arrows to steal from the rich and give to the poor. It was, so to speak, a rudimentary redistributive policy that somehow fought, in a less complex world than today, the inequality that was much more accentuated - for now - than today. In this different cultural temperie the supporters, the advocates of the future digital Middle Ages, that of the happy decline, armed with arrows towards our colleagues of center-right, cite here in the Hall Saez and Zucman, but I would also add their partner Piketty, who tells us in the 21st century something that was perhaps good or at least plausibly sustainable in the 14th, that is to say the usual old tiritera of stealing from the rich to give to the poor and therefore, attacking the heritage, would solve the problem of inequality. Of course, the discourse always concerns the great assets, never be (although, with these levels of technical competence I would like to understand how you would attack them, but this is another discourse). [[Applause]] Always at the risk of being expelled by my Group, I will reveal to you then my left soul that sits on these benches today, and I clarify a concept, addressing first of all to my colleague Nannicini, who for standing, academic position, perhaps could appreciate the topic: the problem of inequality must not be solved downstream with fiscal interventions, but upstream on the labour market, and that is precisely where Europe does not help us and here someone knows, even if he pretends not to know it. The world of internal devaluation, in fact, the world of wage compression as the only response to macroeconomic shocks is the world of inequality: but this world is fine, because we are told that the crisis has changed everything and it is right that it is so. In short, it's not so much right: let's think for a moment about what we are witnessing. We are witnessing a confession: the fact that tax rules, of which economists have always known the absurdity, are disenforced now that the countries of the North are in trouble means one thing: for this Europe that you like so much a Greek child counts less than a German child [[Applause]] and you, in defending this project, make them accomplices, as you go around giving the negator to the right and left to those who exercise a right of criticism and associate with this new Nazism. This is not very nice of you, especially of those in this House who sit there in front of me. Since the problem of inequality should be solved on the labour market if one really cares about it - without, of course, taking away the redistributive function of the tax system - there is a very clear root of the problem - let us think for a moment about the many proposals that have fallen on a long day and a half of negotiations and negotiations for not having been taken up by the current majority and by the Ministry. One proposal, for example, which I believe to be in the centre-right, was to finally carry out a single social shock absorber to simplify the lives of workers. [[Applause]] and, if you will excuse me, also some consultants of the job [[Applause]] Now you have mentioned professionals in this paper sheet, although it remains the fact that your approach continues to make their life impossible. There are, of course, other measures that we believe would have been appropriate. The time has come for exceptional circumstances and great steps. Look, there is an intervention, the first one I heard from the National Council of Accountants and Accountants heard in the hearing in the 6th Commission in the context of the study - still incarnate - on the process of simplifying the tax system and the relationship between taxpayers and tax (very long to say, but you understand me): do we want to remove the IRAP? How can we be the only European country where we pay tax on losses? [[Applause.]] This is barbaric, we condemn our best entrepreneurs to leave and then we cry about the milk that has been poured out. But there were also other proposals. I know that - let us say this - some ideological hatred towards the rich, towards the many sheriffs of Nottingham that you see around, but that in Italy there are not, animates this majority or pieces of it, because it is very varied. We had also, since July, proposed a serious intervention on the IMU. The intervention that raised it has decreased, according to the Conf building Studies Centre, the real estate values by 27 percent. But what is the point of this destruction of wealth? Who does he do good to? Not even the proceeds, not even the treasury. The same goes for the destruction of wealth caused by bail-in and all these other good things in Europe, which you like so much. Well, I have told you that there is still a way forward if the intentions shown in this resolution are actually sincere and will actually translate from commitments into concrete gestures towards the world of work (allow me to say it: of all the work), we will always be there. I would also like us to come out of the rhetoric that the only productive investment is in physical capital. Many colleagues, including academics, fill their mouths with human capital, then come to the House to call the expenditure for nurses, policemen and firemen. [[Applause.]] In short, colleagues - now immersed in their mobile phone - the theme exists. If then these commitments are translated into concrete gestures we, as center-right, will always be there to restart the country. Let's hope so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u100	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Government, colleagues, a few months ago Alfonso was wearing his uniform again, returning to the ambulance and with his old colleagues he started running again to save lives. During the rescue, however, he gets infected and in a few days ends up in the ICU, where he is intubated and then dies. This is the story of Alfonso Durante, retired nurses back in the ambulance to fight the Covid-19 virus. Like Alfonso, there are so many health workers who are giving their best, their own life to save that of others. Thank you Alfonso and thank all those who are fighting this battle on the front line. [[Applause.]] This suspended time is full of stories, each of us is writing the story and the choice of which character to interpret belongs only and only to each of us. There are the stories of teachers who, in order to keep their students' attention high during distance teaching, have created imaginative and ingenious study modules, such as Sandro Marenco, a professor of English and German in a scientific high school in Alexandria that, in order not to leave the students alone in summer and to stimulate them to deepen their subjects, created the hashtag "we review together," which became viral. There are stories of entrepreneurs who have been able to convert their companies and enhance employees so that they do not lose their jobs. Thanks to all these teachers, to these entrepreneurs and to all those who have been able to imagine a new world. It was decades in fact that we talked about digitalization and smart working, but up to now they seemed utopias, while now they are reality. Today workers, teachers and students live and operate in a single space called infosfera. Research carried out by Forum PA's Public Administration Innovation Studies Centre on a sample of around 4,000 smart workers showed that 41 percent of respondents switched to smart working improved their work efficiency and another 41 percent remained the same; it also showed that 56 percent of workers took advantage of the lockdown period to devote part of their time to training to improve their digital skills, knowledge of the procurement code and anti-corruption. Working from home therefore did not mean to stop working, nor to work less. We have dealt first in Europe with this pandemic and the whole world, including the World Health Organization, has recognized the merit of the measures put in place by this Government. We have followed the scientific method through monitoring, data analysis using numerous parameters, the implementation of gradual measures, adapted and modified according to the pandemic and the maintenance of our economic fabric. In a few months we have allocated resources for the equivalent of three financial maneuvers. With the decrees care Italy and I throw again we have invested 75 billion euros in support of the Italian economy, 8 billion in order to put in place our health care (depowered and destructured from decades of cuts), 28 billion of aid to the families, 15 billion for the Cassa Integrazione, 8 billion for autonomous and VAT lots, 3,5 billion for parental leave and vouchers for families, 18 billion for the enterprises (of which six for the contributions lost for the small and medium enterprises), four billion in order to cancel the balance 2019 and the deposit 2020 IRAP, 2,5 billion for the tax credit and the suspension of the terms for the fiscal obligations, 6 billion for the municipalities and the territorial authorities, one billion for the income of emergency. We are now giving oxygen to activities that have been damaged by red zone closures and to allow the municipalities to take further urgent solidarity measures. We are not yet out of the question because the epidemiological curve continues to be worrying, despite the measures taken with the latest decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers are beginning to produce the expected effects. There will be further difficulties, we are all bitterly aware of this and we are concerned about the many activities linked to winter tourism that cannot be reopened and for which urgent support rules must be put in place. We are also approaching the Christmas festivities, which recall to our mind the image of families gathered together, of evenings among friends, of hugs. But we must not forget another image, that of a daughter standing on the roof of her car parked next to the window of the hospital room in which her mother is hospitalized and that from the roof moves her arms well knowing she is not seen, but sure of being able to transmit her love to those who are struggling to survive a few meters from there. Today it seems impossible to find a way out that pleases everyone. How can such distant needs be reconciled? I want to tell you a story, even to soften the tones of this discussion. Long ago in the Middle East lived a man who at his death left 17 camels for inheritance to his three sons. To one he gave half, to the second a third, to the youngest a ninth. These boys tried for months to divide the inheritance according to their father's will, but they failed, because 17 is not divisible by 6, it is not divisible by 3 and so they asked for help from a wise woman, who after long thought proposed a solution to them: he gave them his camel, so that they would have 18 and no more 17. So the calculation became simpler: the first son touched 9 (half), the second 6 (one third) and the younger 2 (one ninth), exactly as the father wanted. However, the sum of 9 plus 6 plus 2 is just 17 and the boys returned the eighteenth camel to the woman. This is to say that often our positions seem really irreconcilable and the insurmountable difficulties. At this moment, resources certainly seem limited to us to be distributed fairly and to solve existing problems. Yet, sometimes it's enough to just change perspective: basically, we're a big family. Humanity is a great family. We all have the same goal, which is to achieve the common good. Today we are happy that the oppositions have accepted our invitation to collaborate for the good of the citizens, because only together we can help all those who, at this moment, are afraid not to make it: to those who fear having lost everything, to those who see the shadow of depression approaching, to those who have lost their loved ones or their work. At night, anxieties, fears, pain become stronger, but as soon as the sun rises we will feel masters of our time again. We don't know when this is over, but we know for sure that day will come. We are aware that the budgetary deviation that we are voting on today is yet another small step towards reaching the goal of the economic recovery of this country and we are also certain that we are still waiting for a great and hard work, but we will only come out stronger if we can all work together, united for the common good, putting into play the best part of ourselves. Today we are talking about EUR 8 billion, which will be used to finance the new ristori decrees. We must continue to support companies and workers who are in difficulty in the highest risk areas and, therefore, are subject to multiple closures. With these new resources we intend to freeze a whole series of tax extensions, which will allow the economic and productive fabric to face more serenely the coming months. And it is with this awareness that today the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour of this measure, required and necessary to face the rise of the pandemic and support businesses and families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u102	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u103	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, how can we really believe a government that opens, enlarges, shares, when the government itself narrows down and leans on a super-commissary Arcuri: the Covid-19 emergency, the management of the vaccination plan and even the Ilva? Give to a man only emergencies that, taken individually, would cause anyone to lose sleep. Evidently, either Arcuri is paranormal or you are scarce; or there is no emergency to handle if one man is to handle three. The problem is not the budgetary deviation, but your detachment from the Italians and your detachment from matters too much bigger than you. You are used to the metaphorical genuflection. Now to the Benetton system (right, Patuanelli?), now to Big Pharma (real, Hope?), now to the condemned Alessandro Profumo (real, Gualtieri?). There's no vision here. Not to give money to VAT matches: 5 billion to banks is money. And then I read about "The Truth": 72 million euros data as a commission for masks, so much so that a report in Banca d'Italia started from Anti-money laundering. That's money. The problems are bigger than you. What do you know about family drama, where parents, if they lose their jobs at 50, become ghosts? Covid effect-19: at risk of poverty another two million families. You repair yourself behind the income of citizenship, except then leave the navigators on the street, but not Mimmo Parisi, because he is your friend. As if the challenge were only to assist and not to revive employment and wages; but full employment is the great challenge of the ruling class. You speak of the decrees of refreshment, evidently little if the Mafia acquires space and power. Your decrees are always two steps back from the needs (winter tourism, we will see it with the next deviation). This is how bills are made: well over 60 percent are made up of system charges. But aren't you ashamed? There is an apocalypse of commerce going on and you don't see it. Almost 100,000 failures in six months. 98,000 companies ceased from April to September. The fashion chain is collapsing because the logic of both the production chain and the payment chain escapes. The maturity credit cards of those who bought the goods will become jam and the Bonarie notices will become debitory folders. If you do not review the rules of the risk centre, the real economy will burst into your face. It is useless for you to extend tax deadlines; whether you like it or not, you are forced to an agreed tax reset or the tax strike will be the self-defense of trade. And, in front of a state that doesn't pay, no lesson of respect for the rules will be worth, because the first ones not to pay are you, so you are dishonest. But - I repeat - in front of a government that appoints in the state participants the defendants, who does not remove the condemned managing directors, who deals with managers who will soon be arrested or who gives money to the banks to cover the relational system, what are we surprised about? Other than budget deviation; distract yourself, because the situation is getting heavy and you don't have the resume to deal with it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u105	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u106	RICHETTI (Mixed-+Eu-Az). Mr President, much more calmly, I obviously respect the ground of the understanding, although it is not clear to me. This afternoon I listened very carefully to this debate and I was lost between Robin Hood and the Sheriff of Nottingham; I did not understand what the understanding was built on, except a series of insults of colleagues of the 5 Stars towards Forza Italia. What I understand - and that's why Action and More Europe will abstain in today's vote - is that there are such clear ideas about the rest of business that, while Parliament is converting the first decree-restoration laws, the second one has been written, designed the third and thought of the quarter. I have to say that this is the best way to constantly leave behind segments of the economy, categories, production sectors, for a response that has everything but organicity. On health issues I listened with great attention and also great respect to the narration (which today we could call the "ristori telling") on the themes of the operators, to whom all our solidarity goes. But, if you want to help health care, put the money in it; and you know where to find it. The last point: we will never escape - I say this to the Government - from a real willingness to cooperate on the measures. Call us to decide, decide, legislate on medical specialization grants, on the Amaldi plan on university research and on a real re-introduction of Industry 4.0. You've put the title back today, but you haven't funded the competence centers and you haven't funded the ITS. These are the battles that More Europe and Action will wage in this Parliament, because, if the understandings arise as this debate has developed today, I believe that this is not good news for the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u107	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions on the report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, which will be put to the vote in accordance with the order of presentation. I would remind you that this resolution requires an absolute majority of the members of this House. The Government has invited the presenters to withdraw motion for resolution No 1, signed by Senators Bagnai and Tosato. I'll ask Senator Bagnai if he intends to withdraw it. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Bagnai and Tosato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani is therefore not included. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u110	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on 20 November the International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence was celebrated. I would like to begin my brief speech by quoting Maria Montessori: "If there is a hope of salvation and help for humanity, this help can only come from the child, because man is built in him." It is our duty to strongly reaffirm the need for respect for childhood and adolescence, for children and adolescents first and foremost as people and men of tomorrow. It must be strongly stated that children come first and foremost and must not be discriminated against and promote school attendance, in contrast in all ways to the phenomenon, which is unfortunately still widespread, of early school leaving. We cannot and must never say that some children have less rights than others, just because they are less fortunate. I am thinking here of children with disabilities, children who are fragile or who live in very poor environmental conditions. Nevertheless, still today, many of them, even in Italy, are victims of violence or abuse, discriminated against, marginalized or live in conditions of social distress and isolation. We cannot forget the many children in the world who still die of hunger and hardship, or are civilian victims, innocent and predestined, of bloody wars or fratricidal struggles, or are still deprived of the affection and love of their parents. We all know the fundamental importance for a harmonious development of the child of two pillars on which rests the very future of our children: the family and the school. If the child lives well and feels the love and affection of the family in which he lives and at the same time is well inserted in the school context, well accepted and appropriately motivated, he grows strong in the soul and mature in the mind. The school-family carrier axis must work in synergy also to recognize the first signs of difficulty, insuffering and asking for help, sometimes silent and little communicated for fear or shame. Here is the importance, among the many initiatives of different subjects who are concerned and support the universe of childhood, of the presence of a continuous and always present reference: the Blue Phone that, born with the aim of defending the rights of childhood and adolescence, represents, with its telephone number 114, a real anchor of salvation for children in difficulty or victims of abuse and violence. The sensitivity of many citizens has prompted me to present a bill, simple in its implementation, which provides for the obligation of exposure in all public administrations, in schools, hospitals, nursing homes, in the studies of basic doctors and pediatricians of free choice of a sign indicating the number 114 Childhood Emergency. Spreading or knowing who can respond to a call for help can often save a life. The objective must always be the protection of minors and the weakest: being a child is a right; for us adults it is a duty to defend them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u113	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I am speaking in the Senate Assembly on the case of the municipal councilwoman Giannino, who was the subject of a warning in pure mafia style a few days ago, having received the City of Anzio an envelope with a bullet addressed to her. This is yet another act of intimidation against this brave woman, after the tires of the car have been ripped apart and she has suffered some abusive writings. Not only that, that territory of the coast of Anzio and Neptune is particularly martyred. A few years ago the Municipality of Neptune was dissolved by mob infiltration and there was also a commission of access to the acts by the prefecture of Rome. I therefore ask in the Senate Chamber, one of the most solemn places in our Republic, that the institutions should not be subject to any fear and should not be taken by any reverence. I ask that, from the anti-Mafia Commission, to the prefecture, to all the institutions, a lighthouse be lit on the story of Councilwoman Giannino of Anzio and of a territory that seems very permeated with infiltrations and not only. I therefore call for all the institutions to be able to bring their solidarity, but above all to take concrete action so that such a vile gesture does not remain unheard of in this Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u116	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very sad day for the community and the Nurse lawyer, who mourns the premature disappearance of our dear friend and colleague, Mr Salvatore Murru, a man of a mild and kind character, a serious person and a great professional, already President of the Criminal Chambers of Nuoro. He leaves two boys, Ignatius and Sebastian, and a wife, my colleague Franca Paola, to whom my warm embrace goes. The city is besieged by the disease, the Covid. I can't help but remember the ambulance lines outside the San Francesco Hospital in Nuoro and the Covid department, with 33 patients and only 6 doctors. As a lawyer and representative of the institutions in the Senate, I am close to all my citizens and all the Sardinians and I remain at their disposal in the fight against this terrible disease. Rest in peace, Savior, you have been and will always be an example for all of us. I thank the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u119	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to address two questions. A few months ago, a first question was asked to the Ministry of Health to ask to resume a series of key passages of Law No 3 of 2003, the so-called Sirchia law, which does not provide for the use of heated tobacco and to take into account the health damage it causes. I understand that from the Institute of Health there has been documentation, specifically requested by the Ministry of Health, in which it was stated clearly and bluntly that the heated tobacco seriously harms the health. Then I put a second question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to ask why a substance which objectively seriously harms health should have a 75% tax discount at a time when, as is well known, with a view to reviewing and re-evaluation of fiscal policies, on the one hand, it declares itself to be combating tax evasion and, on the other hand, it is rightly sought to meet people who are far too heavily burdened by what we can call the burden of taxes. I have received no reply, either from the Ministry of Health or from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Today's news, which explodes in some newspapers, is that the Movimento 5 Stars, through the Associate House, has received from the most important producer of heated tobacco what we can define subsidies, economic resources or funding, to a decidedly substantial extent. At this point, the doubt that there may be a conflict of interest calls for the response in the Chamber of Ministers responsible, first of all to stress that it is detrimental to health, secondly to explain why there is a 75% tax discount in this case. I believe that there are all the premises, including the public scandal, for obtaining answers to these questions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u122	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I am only asking for an e-mail which I sent to my colleagues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and to you, Mr President, in which I asked to put on the agenda the possibility of taking on the symbol of the Protagonist People's Party (AP), already present in the House, and to create this component in the Senate. My speech is aimed at this: I am basically waiting for an answer, because I have not received it from any of the members of the Council or from you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u123	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-278.ana.u124	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday, 2 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
