ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 26 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u4	I communicate that on 30 November 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 157 of 30 November 2020 on further urgent measures related to the epidemiological emergency by COOVID-19" (2031).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u5	The next item is the statement by the Minister of Health on further measures to deal with the emergency from Covid-19. I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been less than a month since, on 6 November, with my latest information, I reported to Parliament on the evolution of the pandemic in Italy and on the first order I signed on 4 November in implementation of the DPCM of 3 November. Now, with respect for the work of the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies, I will follow carefully the observations, proposals and guidelines that will be formulated during this parliamentary debate by all political forces, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. Today's sitting is of further importance because in the second part of my speech I intend to outline the guidelines of our strategic plan on VOCID vaccines, drawn up by the Ministry of Health, the Special Commissioner for Emergency, the Higher Institute of Health, the National Agency for Regional Health Services (AGENAS) and the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA). In the main European countries a parliamentary passage like this has not yet taken place. I believe that the full involvement of Parliament in such a strategic challenge for the future of the country is crucial. But let us start from the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers and of course from the epidemiological framework from which it derives. Before I dwell on the effects of the orders signed in these four weeks, I would like to remind you that the Government, already before the DPCM of 3 November, faced with the increase in the number of contagions and the RT index, had taken more stringent measures to combat the uncontrolled spread of the epidemic. My orders have been adopted, as prescribed by the norm, on the basis of the classification of the Regions, carried out weekly by the monitoring cabin, heard the Presidents of the Region and our technical-scientific committee. They are choices dictated by scientific assessments, inspired as always by the precautionary principle, and by our firm will to protect health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, as our Constitution indicates. They are choices that, as the latest data show, have helped the Regions first to slow down the spread of the contagion and then to reduce, even in absolute value, the daily number of new cases. The Government, through my ordinances, has assumed responsibility for difficult and necessary choices. Every restraining order involves sacrifices that we are well aware of, but without these choices it would be impossible to put the curve under control. Pressure on hospital facilities would become unsustainable: our doctors, nurses and health professionals would not be able to stand up, and we are always grateful for the unceasing work they are doing. [[Applause]] The data from the latest survey of the monitoring cabin and, in particular, the unceasing work of the Higher Institute of Health certainly provide us with very useful indications to guide our next choices. The analysis of the data, considered above all in their evolutionary framework, shows that the whole of the measures we have taken begins to give the first encouraging results: the daily increase of the contagions decreases and everything suggests that the next survey of the monitoring should confirm the downward trend of the RT index, which has passed in four weeks from 1.7 to 1.4, to 1.2, to 1.08. I am confident that soon the index can fall below 1 and this, as is known, is an essential element to bring the infection back under control. The situation is very serious throughout the country and no understatement can be admissible, but it seems right to emphasize before Parliament what is now a clear truth: the measures we have put in place as a government and how Regions are working and the assessments of our scientists are proving to be sound. In March it was Italy, with courage and determination, that indicated to the other Western countries the way of lockdown to stop the pandemic; now, in the second wave, we are experiencing a different path. The government's objective is to bend the curve without a general lockdown, which other countries have been forced to choose. The experience of these weeks tells us that our choice to adopt a model to classify the Regions according to the scenario and the level of risk and to modulate proportionally the measures to be taken seems able to flatten the curve of the contagion, without resorting again to a total lockdown throughout the country, with the social and economic costs that it would entail. It is an unpredictable result, which I shall not dwell on any further, because today I want to talk first of all about what we must do tomorrow and in the coming weeks, rather than demanding the first steps forward. I think it's essential to have your eyes open. Looking at the progress we are making through the measures we have taken cannot mean not seeing, with as much clarity, the great difficulties that remain. The data highlighted by the last detection of the monitoring booth are very clear: trouble not to read them all with the same attention. We are in the presence of a sustained circulation of the virus, which makes it very difficult to contact tracing and can feed significant new outbreaks and we are in the presence of a strong pressure on hospitals, intensive therapies and the medical area. For the stabilization of the first positive results I mentioned, we need more weeks of sacrifice and then a robust maintenance care. I say this with all the force I have inside me: be careful not to exchange a first ray of sunshine with the escaped danger, the wave remains very high and our navigation will continue to be difficult and exposed to a thousand unexpecteds, I say it with the clarity and the strength that the Minister of Health must have in these passages. Let us not be deceived: if we lower our guard, the third wave is around the corner. I repeat once again an expression that I have used a thousand times in recent months: we must not lose our memory, we now know the virus, we know the damage it does and the ease with which it can be lost control. Too many, in the months following the lockdown, have hastily theorized that the virus had lost strength, that the risk of a second wave was substantially non-existent, that one could do without the obligation to respect the rules, starting with the use of masks. The results are before everyone's eyes. It has dangerously lowered the threshold of attention and the respect of the three fundamental rules of prevention (masks, distancement, hygiene of the hands) and has resulted in a climate from free all wrong and unjustifiable. I remember these facts with concern, without wanting to fuel controversy that would serve nothing, only to renew a warning and an alarm that I have repeated several times even after the lockdown and before the summer months. I want to remember some numbers that we must always have well impressed, so that we do not repeat on Christmas holidays the same lightness seen in summer. On March 20, on the most dramatic day of the first wave, we recorded 6,237 cases, after the lockdown in July the daily average had dropped to 237 cases a day, in August we were to 778, in September the average rose to 1,608, with a peak of 2,588 cases. In September - that's the point - the virus began to break the banks, to tracify, coming out of the borders within which we were able to keep it. Assuming that someone still has doubts about the strength and speed of the Covid propagation, I would like to briefly remind you of a few more facts. In the week from 28 September to 4 October we had 14,587 cases, in the next 28,196, then 52,960, then 100,446, then 183,243, little less than a weekly doubling. In the week from 2 to 8 November, the increase began slightly to decrease, with 200,829 cases, which later became 211,850 in the next one. In the last detection of the monitoring cabin there is the first reduction in absolute value of the number of contagions, which is at 193.309, with an average of 27.615 per day and a Rt index, as I said, equal to 1.08. From the survey at the end of September to the beginning of October to last week, the average employment rate of beds in the medical area has increased from 7% to about 50% and that of intensive therapies from 4% to 38%. I don't think these numbers need any particular comments. In September, after the lockdown, we were on average at 1,608 cases a day, now we have certainly decreasing data, but we are still last night at 19,350 new infections, the highest peak of the last weeks had been over 40,000 cases. It is quite clear that with this circulation of the virus, if we lower our guard, we are facing a marked outcome. We have an incidence of 320 cases of about every 100,000 inhabitants. We have to get to 50 cases every 100,000 inhabitants. For this reason, the next festivities must be dealt with very seriously, if we do not want new heavy closures between January and February. I repeat once again a basic concept for me: without substantial restrictions on movement, a substantial change in our habits and strict compliance with the safety rules, the coexistence with the virus up to the vaccine is doomed to failure. This is the truth that is before us. In strongly developed societies like ours, without reducing the displacements and the occasions of contagion, coexistence with the virus is difficult to achieve. That is why with the next DCCM we must continue with clear and rigorous measures, not even to frustrate the work done in recent weeks. The Government's guidelines can be summed up in two basic choices. As for the first, it is a question of reconfirming the model of classification of regions by scenario and risk index. The system of the three zones (red, orange and yellow) has produced results that we consider satisfactory. The technicians of the Ministry, together with those of the Higher Institute of Health and the Regions, are comparing themselves on the parameters, but the basic installation is correct and it is working. It is an effective tool that allows us to act quickly and in proportion to the change in epidemiological conditions. Today, in a context of first improvement, the regions tend towards yellow, but if the picture gets worse we already have an automatic instrument that can immediately reactivate more restrictive measures. I'll switch to the second choice. In order to properly address Christmas holidays and end-of-year holidays, the restrictions will have to be strengthened, also in the framework of a European coordination that our country has promoted in recent weeks. This coordination is always useful - that is my point of view - but it becomes essential if we are to think of activities taking place on the natural borders between different states. In this context, it seems necessary to limit as much as possible the non-necessary contacts between people. The government's orientation - and I will listen carefully to the addresses of the Houses on this - is that during the Christmas holidays international movements should be discouraged and travel between the Regions limited, as already happens today in the presence of red and orange zones. In addition, on the most important days of celebration - 25 and 26 December and 1 January - travel between municipalities must also be limited. It is also necessary to avoid potential gatherings in places of tourist attraction linked in particular to ski activities. More generally, the risks of spreading contagion associated with the moments of aggregation during Christmas and New Year's Eve should be reduced. These are essential measures if we do not want to frustrate the first signs of improvement. It will not be a Christmas like the others, but it really needs everyone's contribution to reduce the number of infections and the, unfortunately, very high number of deaths, as well as to relieve the pressure on our health facilities. We have consciously chosen to keep lessons in presence in primary school and in the sixth grade even in red areas. It is a choice that we claim and that connects with the centrality that school activities assume in the lives of our communities. With the exit of many Regions from the red zones is already underway also a resumption of the lessons in presence for the classes of second and third middle. Compatible with the evolution of the epidemiological framework, it is the government's objective to gradually bring back high school students in attendance. I now come to the second part of my speech on the strategic plan for Covid vaccines. I would like to make two preliminary points which I consider to be very important and decisive. First of all, after the harsh words I have used to highlight the many risks that are still ahead of us, I would like to highlight with the same clarity a clear message of hope. After very difficult months and days that we will never forget, the basic message that I want to address to Parliament and, through you, to all Italians, is a message of reasoned trust. Ladies and gentlemen, in the storm that we are still experiencing, we finally see a landing place, we have a clear route to a safe port. Now it is possible because it seems likely that, starting from January, we will have the first vaccines and then, gradually, we will be able to vaccinate an increasing number of Italians. We have been the first in Europe, together with Germany, France and the Netherlands, to build the vaccine alliance in May and to put the subject of a Community commitment to invest in research and all trials. Now, finally, let's see the first results. We still need caution, and we still need caution. The truth is that at the moment, as I speak, no vaccine has been approved either by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) or by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However, the signals coming from the studies carried out are encouraging and have led us to speed up the definition of the strategic plan that identifies the essential lines of vision and action that we intend to adopt. From the strategic plan that I outline today in Parliament will then come an executive plan that will be permanently adjusted on the basis of the authorisation processes of the regulatory agencies and the consequent, effective availability of vaccines. I always thought science would get us out of this crisis. It is still early and - I repeat - we need caution, but we finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. At the moment, it is not the Government's intention to provide for compulsory vaccination. During the campaign we will assess the membership rate of citizens. Our goal is undoubtedly to achieve herd immunity as soon as possible. Today more than ever we need the contribution of all, with responsible behaviors to face this phase of transition and resistance. They are sacrifices with a definite deadline, which will finally lead us to close this difficult page of the history of our country, Europe and all humanity. We must make every effort not to coincide the vaccination campaign with a new phase of serious spread of Covid. The vaccination campaign will be impressive and will require an unprecedented effort. We must avoid getting there with our health care workers in difficulty and with the staff who are totally involved in the fight against Covid. The second consideration I want to make is about the political climate with which we will face the vaccination season Covid. The full success of the vaccination campaign must be a fundamental goal throughout the country. There can be no division between us on this issue, we cannot afford it; on this issue and on this challenge we need a great country pact with everyone inside, no one excluded, there is no majority and opposition, but the Italians and their fundamental right to health as an indispensable precondition for a solid economic recovery. It is on the basis of these general considerations that I want to go into detail and explain to Parliament the basic lines of Italy's strategic plan for the vaccination of SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19). The first axis is as simple as important: the purchase of the vaccine is centralized and will be administered free of charge to all Italians. I repeat: centralized and administered free of charge to all Italians. [[Applause]] The vaccine is a common good, a right that must be guaranteed to all people, women and men, regardless of the income and territory in which everyone lives or works; no inequality will be admissible in the vaccination campaign. The second axis is equally important and makes concrete the previously announced principle. Italy has opted for 202.573,000 doses of vaccine, which would be sufficiently large to potentially vaccinate the entire population and store security stocks. With the knowledge at our disposal today it is very likely that two doses will be needed for each vaccination, at short time. It should also be recalled that there is still no scientific evidence of the exact duration of immunity produced by the vaccine. The choice made here too is based on the principle of maximum precaution. We have, in fact, signed part of all the contracts that the European Union has formalised for Italy, amounting to 13.4%. We do not want to take the slightest risk of not being able to have a vaccine approved before others or which should be more effective, as a result of the decision not to participate in one of the acquisitions concluded by the European Union. We have never exercised the right to opt-out that was provided for in the Europe Agreements. I would like to remind you that this European vaccine purchasing mechanism has been promoted and promoted by an initiative of Italy. Indeed, the first agreement for the supply of vaccines signed on 13 June between Italy, Germany, France and the Netherlands resulted in the European Union's decision to centralise the negotiation and conclusion of all contracts in Brussels. It is not, therefore, the individual states that are dealing with pharmaceutical companies, but it is the Commission that is negotiating on behalf of all European countries. The European Commission and the Member States have signed an agreement under which the negotiations with the producing companies have been entrusted exclusively to the Commission itself, together with a group of seven negotiators representing the Member States (the seven represent Italy) and a steering board, which takes the final decisions, where representatives of all the Member States sit. The negotiations started focused on a group of companies that are developing vaccines with different technology. These doses will be distributed to Member States - as I said - in proportion to their populations from the first quarter of 2021 and with a more significant distribution of doses in the second and third trimesters, to be substantially completed in the fourth quarter of next year. If all the authorization processes went well - on which we cannot, for the reasons I said before, still have absolute certainty - Italy could count on the availability of the following doses: for the contract with AstraZeneca 40,38 million doses, for the contract with Johnson & Johnson 26,92 million doses, for the contract with Sanofi 40,38 million doses, for the contract with Pfeizer-BioNTech 26,92 million doses, for the contract with CureVac 30,285 million doses, for the contract with Moderna 10,768 million doses. They are clearly numbers still subject to licensing processes that are not yet completed. The third axis concerns the time for the authorisation of the vaccines we have purchased. In this regard, I would first like to stress that the race against the time that the scientific community is making goes hand in hand with maximum security and full respect for all the guarantee and control protocols. Having effective and safe vaccines is a priority that cannot be subordinated or conditioned by any other interest. Around this commitment there is also an important corporate social responsibility. Let me be clear: the production and distribution of the vaccine cannot be regulated solely by the laws of the market. On this I found very effective the opinion sent to me by Professor Lorenzo D'Avack, president of the National Committee for Bioethics, who I would like to thank for the availability and for the valuable contribution given. It is stated in that opinion that the emergency must not lead to a reduction in time or even an omission of the phases of experimentation, defined by the international scientific community, which are essential scientific, bioethic and biojuridical requirements to ensure the quality, safety and efficacy of a drug. Europe has chosen this path, not shortening the stages of study and testing of vaccine candidates and continuing to make marketing subject to the final and binding opinion of the EMA. The acceleration of the times has been achieved by proceeding in parallel the different phases of experimentation, production and authorization. In fact, parallel to the preclinical and clinical studies of phase one, two and three, the preparation of production on an industrial scale for the purpose of commercial distribution began. At the same time, the European Medicines Agency, the EMA, in order to contribute to the acceleration of the process, without losing its fundamental role, is proceeding with a final rolling review procedure, which consists in evaluating the individual parts of the dossier as they are presented by the companies, rather than waiting for the submission of a complete dossier. This procedure, without affecting the overall assessment, significantly shortens the time frame and can create the conditions for granting a first marketing authorisation by the end of the year. To date, two dates have been given by EMA, which could be expressed on 29 December on the Pfizer-Biontech vaccine and 12 January on the Modern vaccine. These two companies in the first quarter of next year's contract should provide us respectively 8,749 million Pfizer-Biontech doses and 1,346,000 Modern doses. While I speak to you there are no other dates fixed by EMA. I would like to remind you that the contracts signed by the European Commission, from which distributions to our country come, must always be considered as best scenario and are obviously subordinate to the authorization processes that - I repeat - have not yet absolute certainty. We must be prepared for the best scenario and then adapt ourselves if the deadlines change due to the lengthening of regulatory agency authorisation processes. The heart of the vaccination campaign, according to the data we have and according to our forecasts, will be the time between next spring and summer. The fourth axis is related to the choices of the first categories that we will have to decide to vaccinate, starting with the arrival in Italy of the first doses of vaccine. This is not an easy choice; we must make it clear and transparent, taking into account international and European recommendations and informing citizens on a timely basis. Currently, Italy, as is well known, is in the phase of the sustained transmission in community. In this epidemiological situation, the public health strategy should focus initially on the direct dilution of morbidity and mortality as well as on maintaining the most critical essential services. In order to exploit the direct protective effect of vaccines, the following categories to be vaccinated as a priority in the early stages have been identified. First category: health and social-health workers. Working and working in the front line, they have a higher risk of being exposed to Covid-19 infection and of transmitting it to susceptible and vulnerable patients in health and social contexts. Defending these professionals at the forefront will help maintain the resilience of the National Health Service. Second category: residents and staff of residential garrisons for the elderly. A high percentage of health care residences have been severely affected by the Covid-19; residents of such facilities are at high risk of serious illness due to the advanced age, the presence of multiple comorbidities and the need for assistance to feed themselves and other daily activities. Therefore, both the institutionalised population and the staff of residential care for the elderly should be considered as a high priority for vaccination. Third category: people of advanced age. An age-based vaccination program is generally easier to implement and allows for greater vaccine coverage. It is also evident that an age-based program also increases coverage in people with risk factors, as the prevalence of comorbidity increases with age. This population group is therefore another top priority for vaccination. Here are some numbers of the above categories, built in comparison with the Regions, with Istat and with the databases of the Ministry of Health. Health and social workers: 1,404,037 persons; staff and guests of residential garrisons for the elderly 570,287 persons; elderly over eighty years 4,442,048; still, persons from sixty to seventy-nine years 13,432,005; population with at least one chronic comorbidity: 7,403,578. Some of these categories will naturally be the first to receive the vaccine. Of course, with the increase in doses, other categories of population will start to be vaccinated, including those belonging to essential services such as teachers and school staff, law enforcement agencies, prison staff and community places. In the event that, then, significant epidemic outbreaks develop in specific areas of the country, any stocks of vaccine will be destined to reactive vaccination strategies compared to that territory in difficulty. The fifth axis is related to logistics, supply, storage and transport, which will be the responsibility of the extraordinary commissioner. In the definition of feasibility plans and supplies of all necessary equipment, tools and materials, several aspects were considered, including the extreme cold chain for the preservation of certain vaccines or the standard cold chain, the packaging of multidose vaccines and the need for dilution. For vaccines requiring a standard cold chain, between two and eight degrees, a hub and spoke distribution model will be adopted, with a national storage site and a number of second-level territorial sites. As for vaccines that need extreme cold chain, these will be delivered directly by the manufacturer at 300 vaccine points, which have already been shared with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. The packaging of multidose vaccines requires the purchase of an adequate number of syringes, needles and thinners, which is ensured both through European joint procurement and through a request for a public offer, already issued by the offices of the Commissioner for Emergency. The Extraordinary Commissioner will also ensure the material considered essential for the conduct of the vaccination sessions, starting with protective devices. The distribution of vaccines, in particular those related to the standard cold chain, will take place with the involvement of the Armed Forces, which are already planning carriers, modalities and logistics in agreement with the Extraordinary Commissioner. I would like to thank Minister Lorenzo Guerini for his valuable cooperation. [[Applause]] The sixth axis concerns the governance of the vaccination plan, which will be ensured constantly by the coordination between the Ministry of Health, the structure of the Extraordinary Commissioner, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. In the initial phase of the vaccination campaign, centralized management of vaccination is envisaged, with the identification of hospital or peri-hospital sites and the use of mobile units intended for the vaccination of persons unable to reach the vaccination points. The staff of the vaccination units will consist of a flexible number of doctors, nurses, health assistants, social and health workers (SDOs) and administrative support staff. It is estimated at the moment a maximum requirement of about 20,000 people. In this regard, it is envisaged to act, on the one hand, by making use of a large and temporary recourse to the professionalism existing in the country, also through the publication of a call to demonstrate the willingness to contribute to the vaccination campaign, with the activation of consequent contractual modalities defined ad hoc, as well as the conclusion of agreements with the Ministry of University and Research, within the framework of the training courses of medical specialization schools. The latter is a qualifying choice, for which I am obliged to thank the Minister for University and Research, Manfredi. [[Applause]] Thousands of young medical graduates, enrolled in the first years of the specialization schools, for a period of time that we are defining, will participate in the vaccination campaign, which will represent a part of their training course. At the organisational level, procedures, operational standards and layout of spaces for acceptance, administration and surveillance of possible short-term effects will be defined at national level. The physical location of the sites, the operational coordination of the employees and the monitoring of the execution of the activities will be established at territorial level. At regional and local level, contact points will therefore be identified, which will respond directly to the national coordination structure and interface with local actors, starting from the prevention departments, to ensure the implementation of the regional vaccination plan and its agreement with the national vaccination plan. As the availability of vaccines increases, large-scale campaigns, walk-in for the population, can be carried out at ad hoc vaccination centres and, at an advanced stage, alongside the use of mobile units, the organisational model will gradually see a greater articulation on the territory, following more and more the normal traditional supply chain, including the involvement of territorial vaccine clinics, general medical doctors and free choice pediatricians, military health and competent doctors of companies. The seventh axis consists of a modern information system to manage the vaccination campaign effectively, integrated, safe and transparently. For the realization of the activities of the plan an efficient information system is being prepared and interfaced with the different regional and national systems, in order to be able to optimize all the organizational and managerial processes, starting from the supplies, until the programming and management of the vaccine sessions. In addition, homogeneous functionality must be ensured throughout the national territory, in particular with regard to the active call system, reservation, registration and certification of vaccination, the recall system and the punctual calculation of vaccine cover in realtime and integration with regional and national surveillance and epidemiological surveillance vaccine systems. The eighth axis, and I start with the conclusions, is an effective drug surveillance and immunological surveillance to ensure the highest level of safety during the vaccination campaign. The key objective is to provide additional surveillance on the safety of vaccines themselves, monitoring any adverse events to new Covid vaccines in the context of their actual use, promptly identify and characterise any new risks that have not yet emerged and identify any quality issues. Monitoring activities will be carefully planned in terms of both the collection and evaluation of spontaneous reports of suspected adverse reaction - passive pharmacovigilance - and proactive actions through studies and active pharmacovigilance projects and pharmacology epidemiology. AIFA, in addition to pharmacovigilance activities that are normally planned for medicines and vaccines, will promote the start of some independent post-authorisation studies on Covid vaccines. The AIFA will also have a scientific committee that, throughout the period of the vaccination campaign, will have the function to support the Agency and the scientific leaders of the individual studies in the phase of setting up the activities, in the overall analysis of the data that will be collected and in the identification of possible interventions. Immune surveillance, which will allow the assessment of the vaccine-induced immune response to different population groups, will be very important together with vaccinevigilanza. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that it is clear from the information I have given you, the scope and complexity of the vaccination campaign we are organising. It is, from all points of view, an unprecedented effort that will require a huge collective effort. We will need to involve all our fellow citizens on time to ensure transparency, seriousness and maximum security for all. We cannot underestimate any scientific, logistical or organizational aspects. And I am sure that in a positive and united climate all Republican institutions will be able to do a great job. We must work and work together to ensure the full success of the vaccination campaign to finally defeat this terrible virus and to create the health conditions to restart Italy. We are a great country, we must never forget it. Let us show once again that we are up to the most difficult challenges. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u7	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister Hope, we look to you today with our hearts in our hands - can I say with hope? - in general so that common sense prevails over every consideration, so that order may be placed between the priorities and the confusion - Christmas yes, Christmas no - and those clear and definitive guidelines that allow people to follow the rules in a certain way, without always feeling torn up. We call on you to focus particularly on local medicine (and it would be right now), operators, ATS and ASST technicians, so that all - I say all - health professionals are considered in the same way and can cooperate, for example, in the administration of vaccines in pharmacies. Today you told us that medical students will also be able to do it, and we raise asking to remove the entrance test to the faculty, supporting the university. In particular, I will focus on the question of the reopening of schools as soon as possible, to say no, strongly no, to the realization of a condition against which we will fight until the last breath: that we never get to talk about a Covid generation. I'll explain. We probably never realized the importance of the school as since they were forced to close them for the emergency; even if saying that they were closed is a contradiction, at the moment when only the lessons in presence have been skipped and have been replaced by distance teaching aseptic. But in fact the cornerstones of the school's mission have been interrupted: the relationship, the sociality, the development of interaction with the other, with the adult, with the teacher, with the same age, with the companions, while closing reactions and real syndromes of isolation and dependence on computers and cell phones have developed. But here comes considerations for the government, Minister. A government that to date has not been able to guarantee adequate school continuity to our young people, dispersing its action in wrong interventions, covering the flaws of the national education system with the short DAD blanket, which helped to divert attention from the flaws of a system that has revealed, and still has not solved, the problem above all of the lack of traditional teachers and support, rather than entrusting itself immediately to the school, immediately ready, rather than immediately starting a permanent consultation table between Ministries of Health, Education and Transport with Parliament, as a real task force. It would have been necessary to do this in order to avoid reopening and closing due to the second foreseeable wave, caused also and above all by an inadequate system of public transport, which would have sufficed to strengthen with the aid of private transport, avoiding more refreshments [[Applause]] and using them instead for school. It would have been appropriate to launch immediately the true revolution of the school world, starting the necessary alliance between state public school and public peer school, introducing immediately the standard cost per student, giving immediately the money directly to the families to choose their own school, implementing the freedom of educational choice and averting the danger of the "hotel classes" that are causing so much debate. Today we are still at "dear comma friend" and you hear about letting students go to school on Sundays. And that is not what the Minister of Education Azzolina says, but the Minister of Transport De Micheli, who continues to say that no one has said to you that the virus is spreading on the means of transport. What else? [[Applause]] You hear about school to be reopened at a week of Christmas holidays, or not; we reopen on the 7th, but you don't know. The last news is that the prefects will decide, in agreement with the mayors. While, for us, rules, morning-afternoon shifts and transport would be the solution. So, once again, we are faced with a government that decides not to decide, with Ministers who are constantly sending to Regions, prefects, task forces. And to think that it is the five-star ministers who are the most delegant; they are the ones who say that the state must focus everything on itself. Perhaps it would really be appropriate for those who are not capable, who prove that they are not able to manage a Dicastery, to withdraw. [[Applause]] , go home, leave the place to those who know how to do it, especially at a time like this: with school and with health, Minister, you don't joke. Mr. Hope, we're addressing you today. Tell your colleagues De Micheli and Azzolina that the boys are looking at us and what they see is not beautiful. Speak and listen to us; listen to us and talk to each other. Let us unite forces, let us give hope to the country because, as I always say - and I apologise for the continuous play of words - hope is the most powerful vaccine. In conclusion, take down the prejudices and fences; we all work together so that the bell of this new school year can sound really definitely after the Christmas holidays, that we really hope can be used for a serious reorganization and concert, that brings back to normality because, when the school is back to working well, it will be the sign that the country will be healed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u9	Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u10	Dear Minister, today I take the floor, both as a doctor and as a member of the Northern Sardinia Crisis Unit for the Covid emergency, an emergency that has cost the lives of many Italians, especially the most fragile ones, at the mercy of the disarming improvisation of the Government of which you are a member. Ten months have passed since the World Health Organization declared the pandemic a devastating calamity for health and the global economy. While it is true that, in a first pandemic phase, the enemy was not known, nothing was done afterwards to prevent the long viral wave from attacking the hospital structures, with complete paralysis also of the clinical activities not Covid, like all the oncology pathology, which we will pay dearly. Each State would have to have a strategic plan to limit the risk that the contagion would spread, imposing drastic interventions quickly and this courage in Italy did not exist. The lack of national protocols and guidelines to manage the emergency was felt in the confused response of the health system. The choice of those who submit to the swabs has followed the most disparate strategies, sometimes ending up leaving without diagnosis people with obvious symptoms and their family members. The basic doctors were not involved in the management of territorial health and for many days there were no separate hospital routes for patients with Covid, so that the same hospitals became outbreaks of infection. The government adopted the first measures only on 23 February, in the presence of 130 contagions, with the establishment of the red zone of the lodigiano, but on 27 February there were already 400 contagions. Yet, as the epidemic curve began to spread, political communication took the opposite direction, with the campaign "Milano" did not stop, promoted by the mayor Sala and with the aperitif convict of some political exponent of the majority. [[Applause]] On 8 March the cases were over 7,000 and two days later it was declared the national lockdown, although according to experts, just those of your government, Minister, it was already too late. In an interview with the New York Times, Walter Ricciardi said that you, Minister, have struggled hard to convince your colleagues in the Commission to act faster and admit that they were lost ten days before doing what they had to do, but ten days is an eternity in the face of a virus that spreads so fast. The widespread international appreciation for the Italian management of the pandemic also has of the singular. The experts of the Harvard Business School have pointed the finger on the timing of the decrees adopted by the Government to control the contagion, concluding that Italy has followed the spread of the virus rather than preventing it [[Applause]] , an analysis also confirmed by the "The New York Times" which notes that, in its attempts to stop the infection, adopted one at a time, Italy has always found a step back from the deadly trajectory of the virus. In other words, in the management of the emergency, instead of acting proactively, events have been chased, coming systematically behind. The truth is that, in the course of the emergency, there has emerged a serious difficulty of coordination: the lack of a shared strategy between different institutions involved, that has resulted in an open confrontation with the Regions and here I want to mention the experience of my Region, Sardinia, with the refusal by the Government of the request of my Region - that in June had eradicated the virus, with an index Rt equal to 0.03 - to establish what for us was a health certification to guarantee safe access, both for residents and for the millions of tourists who visit our land in summer, to guarantee a real control of viral circulation and to protect a fragile health system, calibrated for 1,6 million inhabitants. The results of this refusal were seen with a revival in Sardinia of the Covid-19 import, except then paint our island by the press of regime as a region of anointers. See the three episodes of "Reports" dedicated to the topic. [[Applause.]] And so, besides the damage to health and the economy, even the mockery! Only now that we are in full phase two of the pandemic the government seeks a sharing with the oppositions in the name of the interests of the Italians, as if we had been simple in these months... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] and not the notaries of the disaster that is taking place several times denounced by parliamentary questions and acts. So let me briefly ask you a few questions: what strategies has the Ministry of Health adopted? Where were the health institutions to validate the therapeutic protocols? How and by whom was the National Pandemic Plan managed? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this morning we must choose which position to hold and how we want to look at the coming months. In fact, we have had enough problems in recent months and I have already heard a couple of speeches that sincerely do not go in the direction we all need. I am a very calm and constructive person, but to hear from those who govern the Lombardy Region for twenty years that the problem of the management of the pandemic in Lombardy are the statements of the Mayor Sala does not put us in the condition to manage what we will face [[Applause]] , when there are elderly people in my region who make forty-five minutes of tail in the cold to take the flu vaccine, which is still not in that region. We must understand, therefore, that we are in a complicated situation in which it is difficult to deal with everything and everyone must do their part. And I come to the subject of schools, which is particularly dear to us and which my Group has asked me to address this morning. For us they are the top priority, but to make them work and reopen them as soon as possible they need a system intervention where everyone does their part. It must also end with the caricature we have discussed for months of the benches with the wheels because it is not true: we have invested resources as never before in the Italian school. Interventions were made in classrooms and buildings. There are principals, city councilmen and mayors throughout Italy who have worked in this direction, but it is clear that many things still have to be settled because the school does not end at the entrance of the classroom. There are still a lot of speeches to be made and there is one issue that concerns, in particular, the arrival of children in schools. And the latter is a complex issue because it crosses national responsibilities with regional and municipal responsibilities. I am pleased that the colleague who is no longer in the Chamber stresses that we cannot leave the subject to the coordinations with the prefects, but unfortunately that is exactly how we have to work. Italy, like all countries, but ours in particular, is very long and different: it is made of large cities and small municipalities, islands and mountains. If we think, therefore, of intervening on the school in the same way throughout the territory we do a damage because there is nothing more wrong than to make equal parts between unequals. The only way to make Italian school work in the pandemic and - I'm sorry to say - even outside is to make differences, enhance the autonomy and give more to those who need more. This is the great challenge we face because none of us are antimodernists. We also see in distance learning an opportunity, of course, if you use it to do school in a different way. This is a pedagogical issue which is not the subject of this morning's debate, but which we are interested in. The report is, however, the most important aspect of school. The incredible challenge facing us is to make the relationship work in the middle of a pandemic, in which it is said that the relationship is the basis of the danger of contagion: if you do not want to get infected you have to stop, cut off the relationship. But if you want to do school (otherwise school is not) you have to report. This is a bet that a country like ours is able to win. We can think - and it must be our concern - of reopening in the presence of all schools where this is possible as soon as possible; but we cannot make mistakes, we cannot do symbolic acts, we cannot do scenic acts. We must do things right and to do it we must make a difference; we must allow all those who are in a position to do it to be open, but we must ensure that in all places where this is not possible we do not open up, we do not start a chain of contagion, we do not go back to the beginning of the dynamics of our schools as well. We have a great responsibility, which concerns the future of this country and future generations; this responsibility also depends, colleagues (because everyone has to do his part in this), on what the most relevant people will always say, those who have the ability to arrive at the homes of the citizens and who have the responsibility for their words, because their intervention makes their opinion and that today they will want to surprise us, for the first time since the beginning of this pandemic, in the intervention they will make today in this Chamber changing the tones, stopping doing demagogy and giving a signal of responsibility to the country. This is what we need, since we are in the Christmas climate. So, let us apply the Christmas climate to this, let us make it surprising that in this House we are not looking for the culprit to be blamed for the next few weeks, which we do not have in mind the progress of the polls in the coming months or years, but that we are committed to looking for the way in which the country can find again a seriousness, a responsibility and also a credibility of the institutions in the eyes of the children. Mr President, over the past few weeks I have been talking to so many of these kids who have been out of school following lessons or in the streets, respecting the rules. I find it extraordinary that some students, when the school is closed, organize themselves to demonstrate and say "We want the open school". [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] ..and be with them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u13	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u14	Mr President, in this climate of general call for responsibility on the part of all and also for cooperation which is to be activated, not only between the majority and the opposition, but also between Parliament and the Government, in the face of this call so strong to control in new and even more conscious ways the pandemic that has taken us and which has plagued us for a year now, I cannot but appeal directly to what in medicine is the first form of cure, namely prevention. We know that those who died from this pandemic very often also had previous diseases, which often concerned the cardiorespiratory system. Let's say that this devastating atypical pneumonia, which has produced so many victims throughout the world, had a good game in front of already suffering lungs due to previous pathologies. Among the previous pathologies I intend to report at this time all those forms, such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), which is one of the events perhaps most important when added to the seniority, which depend on the condition of the chronic smoker. Italy was the country that first, with the law Sirchia, about twenty years ago, has equipped itself with an instrument of prevention of diseases, both infectious, and those connected to a sort of degeneration of lung tissue, as well as of oncology type. Well, we have seen, for a very few years now, a lie operation, which has tried to replace the classic smoke (let's call it this) with the so-called heated tobacco. It is a lie operation, I must tell the Minister, regarding which the letter recently published by his Director-General for Prevention, Dr. Rezza, to all regional councillors is truthful. It is true because it says important things: that heated tobacco harms health and that the Food and Drugs Administration, the World Health Organization and above all, in Italy, the Higher Institute of Health, have said so in the excellent service provided by Dr. Pacifici. The Ministry, therefore, knew that heated tobacco hurts, but the burden in all this is that against this lie - which led teenagers to start smoking less scrupulously, thinking that it didn't hurt, and that it deceived chronic smokers, convincing them that by changing cigarette patterns, they could even recover quality of life - the worst of the answers the government could give was the one we all know: the tax discount. Attention, at this moment the news makes scandal and I tell the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, because it scandalizes the mixture that there could be, that is all to be demonstrated, between exponents of the movement and the great producer of heated tobacco. We are not interested in that scandal at the moment (let the judiciary take charge of it), but of the certain damage to health and the strong worsening that this entails for chronic smokers who decide to stop smoking and for young teenagers who start to do so. That is why we appeal to the Minister of Health, because we cannot act only on the physical distance, on the mask and on the gel - all things holy and blessed - but we must do it further upstream, keeping the health of our lungs in the best possible conditions, and smoking is devastating. We must have the courage, then, to say something more when we talk about prevention. Surely we can refer to air pollution, which is also one of the factors that bring discomfort and suffering to all our respiratory functions, but smoking is one of the most pronounced and clearest causes, it is one of those protection factors that are listed at the entrance of the Ministry of Health, where it is written: "No to smoking". Why, then, can we not intervene? We have a means of doing so, Minister, namely the many amendments tabled to the budget law by all political forces. Their approval must not be a joke, it must not be translated into passing the tax burden from 75% perhaps to 70 or 65, assuming the path of graduality. We must give as strong a signal as the lockdown that has been imposed, for example, on mountain hotels, which have all been closed down. Why did they have to suffer it, even with the refreshments that can soften the fatigue, and they must not suffer this damage - which seems to us an advantage for the health of all Italians - for example tobacco companies? The Minister really wants those amendments to be adopted, with energy and force, because they speak of tax justice in order to obtain general health, also because we all know the damage that is caused, as well as the smoker, also the passive one, that is to say the neighbour, and it is also caused by these new means. I therefore believe that, while waiting for the vaccine to arrive - and we hope it will arrive - and in the absence of specific therapies, it will once again rely on prevention, also on this plan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u15	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u16	Minister, I would like to make a few remarks with you and with you to address some comments to the whole Government. Today we are discussing a Christmas that is not there, in a tiramella between aperturists and chiusurists, that is perhaps reaching the highest level of surrealism. We are still witnessing, after all that has happened, endless and unsolved debates between virologists who, in fact, until some time ago were also unknown to their patients. We see discussions from the living room everywhere and we have also witnessed the painful history of the choice of the Health Commissioner in Calabria, which, if it were not a real tragedy, in a film could also make you smile. We must note that the public debate is perhaps not up to the challenge that our country is called to support and that the parliamentary debate has been completely exonerated on the subject and confined. This was due to a plethora of DPCM and a series of decree-laws. In these days we have even come to draw up, as we have seen and see with the so-called restorative decrees, a new institute: the Matrioska decrees, in which the provisions enter one into the other. Let us be truthful, though. The emergency Covid highlighted the cracks of a government that revealed an inadequacy of its own and, perhaps, of the same policy to face one of the worst Italian periods. We remember, however, that the earthquakes highlight the cracks in the walls and the quality of a house. The problem is that, with this crisis, the big ones turned out to be big, while the little ones turned out to be big. [[Applause]] What happens in the meantime? Almost 40% of Italian companies reported that they might not survive. The highest risk is, of course, for small and micro enterprises, with almost 500,000 small firms at risk of closure. And we are here to issue a decree-law a week chasing demands, emptiness and forgetfulness, from the point of view of the theory of pursuit, rather than strategy. Remember that the future will have to bear the weight of a public debt that we have never had, since the post-war period. The future will see Italy trusting in the ability of companies to work, create jobs and withstand the economic crisis. The government must be able to do all this. These are choices to make when you have a plan, but the question is that it is missing. Italy could perhaps avoid the impact of the second round. We also had the data available, but everything was consumed in a dramatic experience, from the masks to the reopening of schools, with the famous wheelchairs, transport, the test system, tracking and treatment. We're still at a commissioner who's gonna take care of the vaccine. We hope that he will be able to do better than he has seen so far. Even, if you look carefully, the plan "Prevention and response to Covid-19: evolution of the strategy and planning in the transition phase for the fall-winter period" is dated 12 October and 18 of the same month and the contagions were already 414.000 and the places occupied in the intensive care 18.000. I mean, in a month, it hit the peak. A bad management tried also for tabulas, as demonstrated by some late missives. In the letter sent on 23 March by the president of the Conference of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces Bonaccini, regarding the relapse and in terms of emergency Covid, on the reopening of schools and on local public transport, we read that it was easy to predict that, with the reopening of school activities, inevitable criticalities could have been determined. The President of the Lombardy Region has written to the minister Boccia, anticipating that the regular start of the school year, according to calendar and usual modalities, would have made unsustainable the consequent demand for transport. From several regions it has written to the Minister of Infrastructures and the transports signalling this problem in the matter of transports. You knew and then you didn't do anything. The relationship between the State and the Regions, which must be revised and defined with a necessary reform of differentiated regionalism, has also been in crisis, which may be the instrument for determining mutual competences, in order to avoid this confusion. In the first phase the Regions were left alone, while in the second phase they were even considered scapegoats. We really need the famous loyal collaboration, because the regions are the operational part; we need a dialogue, which must also be there to elaborate the DCCM; we need great clarity. In a state like ours and in a debate like what we are talking about in the Senate and the House, we talk about Regions in a way and then, instead, within the Commissions we even discuss a clause of supremacy. It is useless for Mr Boccia to come and tell us about the intention of implementing a differentiated, balanced regionalism and anything else, when the right hand does one thing and the left tries to approve a clause called supremacy [[Applause]] ; already such a definition should not even find room in an absolutely democratic system like ours. These are the reasons for the difficulties. A serious state, however, must be at all times. It is an appeal that we also address to you, who is the Minister of Health, a man of the institutions and of great seriousness: it is not possible that in a state there are representatives of the institutions that even come to offend with words not only a president of the Region, our Santelli, but also the Calabrians and the cancer patients. In other states, such figures should only resign. [[Applause]] Not for the person himself, but for the respect of what we are doing. In the previous legislature, Minister Idem was forced to resign for an ICI declaration; I think that there are even more serious situations in the current government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Senators and fellow Senators, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Hope for his communications with regard to the DCCM, which lists the measures that will become effective from this week until the end of the Christmas period. It is important to stress the great responsibility with which the Government is facing the pandemic crisis and the great realism with which it makes the important decisions contained in the measures adopted. It is obvious that, as Italians, we can only be, on the one hand, concerned and, on the other hand, annoyed at some limitations to our freedom of movement on national territory. But it is certain that, as citizens, we also feel on our shoulders the full weight of the responsibility to get out of the pandemic as soon as possible. We must be well aware that our personal freedom ends where the neighbor's right to health begins and, in some cases, also to life. This is because, if the virus has not caused any kind of damage to many of our fellow citizens, perhaps even relatives, it may have brought serious complications, without forgetting that the pandemic has led to the death of more than 50,000 people. It happens, however, that then we see the classic detractors, the conspiracyists, the shamans and the sorcerers from the square, those of the "truth I know it", the bufalaries from social networks, do more damage than the same virus. We must rediscover a deep spirit of national unity, that which our country has been able to awaken, for example, after the worst pages of our history, such as the great world wars. In those precise historical periods Italy came out of the rubble and perhaps the difference is just this: at that time, the Italians, at least most of them, had little or nothing and that little was enough to tighten around a national spirit, which made them proud to feel Italian; today the world has changed, the economy is now globalized and certainly our standard of living is completely different since then. For this reason it is so difficult for many to put health before purely economic, personal interests. It is right then that the burden of decisions falls on the Government and Parliament. To date, we have never turned back on our responsibilities, starting with the responsible choice to balance economic interests with the primary one of health. He who has intellectual honesty can only acknowledge to the Commission the firm will not to close anything that was not strictly necessary. Of course, the excess of zeal sometimes does not pay and I want to express here the hope that the schools will all reopen as soon as possible: just because they are not an economic activity, does not mean that they are not as important; among other things, the superiors are currently closed, not so much because of a problem of infection within them, completely laughable, but because of the organization of public transport. In January we cannot afford to continue to leave the children at home: an entire school year without teaching in presence would have dramatic consequences, especially on the social classes most exposed in this crisis. Let's try to reopen them safely already this month: this would be a very good signal, even partial; Let's try it! Many economic activities were involved in the pandemic. We have tried to limit only those where interpersonal contact is inevitable vehicle for the virus. Despite this very pragmatic approach, every day we read in the newspapers a political struggle of this or that party that takes sides in an economic sector. I would like to point out that, since the pandemic broke out, the Government and Parliament have helped to approve nine measures; we have allocated EUR 100 billion in deficits, most of which are earmarked for the protection of workers and for non-profit-making contributions to economic activities. With the last four measures (i.e. the package of decree-restoration laws), we have put in place 18 billion euros to help the most affected activities, as a result of the division of the country into risk zones, and to give breath to our economic-productive fabric, with a wide range of tax extensions. It is now a 40 billion maneuver, which allocates four for future non-refundable compensations, to which will soon be added the resources of a fifth decree-restoration law, which will meet the companies that have suffered decreases in turnover, although not having directly closed. In all this, of course, great attention has been paid to health care. Since the beginning of this emergency, we have allocated almost 10 billion; we have strengthened the National Health Service, providing for increases in beds, recruitment of doctors and nurses, additional allowances, strengthening of territorial medicine and much more, but unfortunately clashing with the limits of the reform of Title V of the Constitution, so that to the action of the Government not all the Regions have responded adequately. We were talking about this just last week, during the debate on budgetary deviation. There is no one who does not see in all this the quantity and quality of the effort spent. Colleagues, please, let us avoid tones and ways of campaigning: Italy does not need them. We are in winter, a season in which, as we all know, entire Alpine and Apennine areas await the snow, because they live on skis and, in general, tourism linked to winter sports; unfortunately, however, with hundreds of deaths a day, this year it is unthinkable to open ski resorts, much less during the holidays, even to those who stay in hotels or in a second home, as the Presidents of the Regions of the North ask. It's too high the risk of throwing it all away. If skiing is an individual sport that is done in the open air, everything that revolves around it, from cabin stops to queues to hire equipment, from skipasses to access to facilities, can create dangers. It is clear that a possible closure does not leave us indifferent: entire mountain municipalities live exclusively of this; the mountain is GDP, we know very well, and for this reason, like Movimento 5 Stars, we will take charge of the burden of a decision so distressed, identifying the best mechanism to compensate all the operators of this chain affected by a possible stop. We have done so for many segments of our productive world and we will do so again, without hesitation and with the greatest effort. However, it is not possible to replicate the error of the summer, when you wanted to listen to the managers of clubs and clubs to give them a chance. We have all seen how they have managed this possibility: crowded premises, masks lowered or completely absent, contagions that have proliferated between customers and staff of the premises. A well-known Costa Smeralda entrepreneur, responding to the press about his shortcomings, justified himself by saying something like this: we couldn't shoot people. Shoot no, it wouldn't have helped; just let it in less and control compliance with protocols [[Applause]] For this reason we will spend a Christmas only with the most loved ones, but that are few. We couldn't forgive the guilt of infecting someone weaker than us. He who has the gift of health also has the responsibility to preserve that of others [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u19	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Speranza reminded us in this House that there are many candidates for vaccines, currently under study: 157, 88 of which are preclinical, 40 in clinical phase 1, 17 in clinical phase 2, 13 in clinical phase 3, the most advanced. Well, not one of these, I stress, could have proceeded or will proceed without animal testing. Which means that without it we will never have a vaccine or a cure that will allow us to defeat SARS-CoV-2. Since ignorance of the facts is a dangerous alibi, which condemns those who feed on it to a distorted perception of reality, I would like here briefly to retrace, as an example, the contribution of animal experimentation in studies to obtain the vaccine of the modern American, of which - as the Minister has just stated - Italy has opted for 10 million doses. Well, the Moderna company studies its candidate vaccine called mRNA-1273 in mice and what it studies in mice does so thanks to the twenty previous years of research on mice, ferrets and rabbits. It arrives in October, then two months ago, its publication in the New England Journal of Medicine, with the self-explanatory title...Rating the vaccine mRNA-1273 in non-human primates... then in the macaques. Twelve macaques are employed for each sex, between three and six years old. They are wild, have greater similarity to man for the aspects of virus replication in the airways and immunology, mediated by T and B cells, which rodents do not have. Modern scientists point out that the use of macaques makes it possible to study the scalability of the vaccine, so what doses of vaccine are clinically relevant. Non-human primates, they write in the study, are an important model for studying vaccine protection. I would ask you, Mr President, to allow me to add the full text of the intervention I would have liked to make today, in order to tell you about the contribution of animal testing, what happened and what the steps have been to know and deal with this virus, with a vaccine which you, Minister, taking up the definition of the European Commission, called 'common good'.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u21	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u22	CATTANEO (AUT (SVP-PATT, UV). I will really end by asking everyone in this House for an act of intellectual honesty. It must be said that those who oppose animal testing (97 per cent of which is carried out on mice and rats) must be aware that their position, if endorsed by the institutions, would condemn the world to succumb to a virus, giving up being able to fight and defeat it with vaccines and treatments that will come thanks to the animal experimentation conducted by our scholars, young and old. I therefore appeal to you, Minister, so that from the next few weeks, in a surge of legitimate pride in your function, at such a difficult historical moment for the health of all of us, you can prevail over the logics of identity and of recognition of the interest of the citizens in a free biomedical research, for which you are called by institutional function to be the first responsible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u23	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u24	Minister, I deeply share your approach to your communications today to the Senate of the Republic: to prevent the vaccination campaign from coinciding with a new wave of the epidemic. I will follow your lead: you, Minister, in the name of these statements, must proceed to a close interlocking with the Regions in order to prepare an active national surveillance plan, unique, with the same criteria and tools to control and contain the epidemic on the territories and give Italian citizenship equal opportunities for access to swabs. We cannot ignore the sufferings and concerns of so many, too many fellow citizens, who are still stuck at home today because of the lack of execution of a buffer quickly to ascertain the disease, which, if carried out in time, after the end of the disease, would allow them to return to work and social life. How many family members of positive people do we know, who do not have a buffer and who live in the home with the nightmare of contagion? An effective tracking system is essential to protect people and families, structures for people with disabilities and more fragile. Tomorrow we celebrate the day of disability and people with disabilities have suffered much more the consequences of the epidemic. This plan must be accompanied by a campaign - as we said in this House a few months ago - to make citizens aware of the various tests and their use. Minister, the fact that at some point at the end of September we lost sight of tracking shouts revenge, because we left people alone in the face of infection or in line with drives - in. We must not forget that. It is the duty of the Government and the Regions - right now that the curve of the contagions is flexing - to have in our country a tracking policy worthy of this name, building on the experiences that have worked in the first phase of the epidemic and those of the countries in which it has been contained in the second phase, and to avoid that the third wave escapes from us; still, to insert the strengthening of the health surveillance within the pandemic plan and, in line with that, for today and for the future. I say this just today, because we are talking about vaccines and, as you said, also about the truth that we have before us. The truth is that, as we all know, at least in the first few months of the year, not many of us will be vaccinated and we will have to continue to recommend caution to citizens, respect for the rules - as we are also doing on Christmas - but, at the same time, reassure the population about our ability to monitor health. The other things that we will have to organize right away are home care and territorial medicine, large absent in the first phase of the epidemic, showing that, where it is working, home care brings great benefits and does not lead to the crowding of hospitals: we must always have it at heart, as you said. The Health Commission, which I am honored to chair, intends to make a major contribution to this, and in the two years of the legislature before us it is necessary to transform the health system, starting from the territory and indicating a national model. Another intervention that must take place, Minister, not alone, but together with the Government - we have also talked about this many times in these classrooms - is a local transport plan, even with agreements with the private sector, and any useful initiative to avoid overcrowding on public transport and assembly. Let's get to the vaccines. What you have said in this House is very important. I think we will have a before and after Covid: individuality versus sociality; therefore, we do not need to see society as pond compartments (the elderly, the fragile and all others), because we are a whole. We will have to accompany the population, informing them of the importance of vaccines, precisely to protect the weakest and make the citizenship aware that this virus is better not to take it. It will be necessary to reach 70 percent of flock immunity to return to normal life; of this we all have a great desire. The European Union and the European medicines agency (EMA) are conducting a very important match on vaccines, as you recalled. Yesterday we held a hearing with Dr Gallina, who also represented to us the fundamental values that the European Union is considering to conduct the implementation of the vaccination campaign: first of all, solidarity. The government is engaged in a strategic plan, as the Minister recalled, and in our opinion the strategic structures of the country must be involved, starting with the Army, as was the case with the cholera epidemic. In conclusion, I think we should also evaluate a new serological study, in order to understand also the true prevalence of contagion in the regions and to regulate vaccinations. This new phase, Minister, must be full of awareness, preparation, information, transparency and non-contradiction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u25	Colleagues, I would be enlisted to speak at this time, but, since I am chairing the sitting, I give up speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u26	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Hope for his comprehensive speech, in which he explained the state of the art. It is true that anti-Covid vaccines are finally a concrete hope to get out of the tunnel of the pandemic. Since the appearance of the Covid-19, at the end of last year, medical research, both public and private, has been activated as never before in history, producing knowledge results, developed therapeutic protocols and also several vaccine candidates, which seem to guarantee protection, depending on the company's communications, for more than 90 percent of the vaccinated, apparently with no side effects. As the Minister explained, the vaccine race was possible in such a short time not only for the large amount of investment, but also for the activation, by the control agencies, of a special mode, called emergency use authority, that is, an authorisation for emergency use, which, as the Minister explained, has seen the various clinical phases concentrated in parallel, rather than in series. This authorisation shall be issued in emergency situations, on the basis of a calculation of the risk and benefit justifying its issue. There is no need to argue how appropriate it is to activate an authorisation procedure of this type, when the virus has already caused more than 50,000 deaths only in Italy and almost 1.5 million worldwide. The minimum duration of the phase 3 trial of the vaccine, to determine safety and efficacy in emergency mode, however, is only two months after the second immunisation. It should not be forgotten, as the Minister said, that this type of authorisation, which has not yet been issued for any of the candidates for anti-Covid vaccines, is accompanied by a follow-up. In particular, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) provides for the implementation of a data collection plan on the safety of the vaccinated population and the obligation for the company to complete phase 3 trials, in progress, for a period of at least six to nine months, while in the case of the European medicines agency (EMA) we talk about a conditional authorisation to maintain the excellent relationship between benefit and risk. They are therefore authorisations in progress and, even when they are there, they will not be final. The agencies therefore reserve the right to withdraw them, in case critical situations arise or if the risk-benefit relationship is no longer in favour of the latter. Probably it will take months before any vaccine for the Covid-19 gets full approval of the regulatory agencies, an unavoidable condition for a massive campaign. All this in order to say that, during this period, as the Minister said, we cannot lower our guard and it is still necessary to have measures of containment, of limitation of movements and of attention, because the authorization for emergency use is only the first step of a path towards the end of the pandemic, which is still long ahead: we must tell the citizens and we cannot lie, otherwise we do not understand why you continue to issue DPCM. We therefore welcome the plan for the distribution of vaccines which the Minister has explained to us, which must be accompanied, as he rightly said, by correct information, but also by careful and complex monitoring of the various candidates for vaccines, because we do not yet know which will be the most effective and the safest. There are questions to which the scientific community has not yet given answers, which only from this first phase of vaccination we will learn and which do not allow us to lower our guard, first of all on the duration of protection. As the Minister said, it is not known and we do not know if the vaccinees will keep it long. No less important - I would like to insist on this, because the scientific community has discussed it a lot - is the theme of the possible contagiousness of the vaccine, in case they contract the virus after vaccination. As I said, the scientific community is discussing this issue animatedly, but at the moment we do not know if vaccination will protect against infection, so it will be sterilizing, or only from clinical symptoms, but without any effect on the risk of transmitting the infection. It is very likely that we will find ourselves in an intermediate situation, where some vaccinees will be non-infective, while others, if infected, may in turn become infectious. We cannot draw any conclusions on this until we have done the necessary checks in the coming months. In this case too, in the process of vaccination of health workers, we cannot ignore the use of personal protective equipment and the safety measures that such personnel must have available and put in place, otherwise we are really in danger of frustrating vaccination. Apart from the debate on the transparency of the data that animates the scientific world in recent weeks, which, however, is not the responsibility of this legislative Assembly, because scientific data must analyse those who are able to do so, we must not forget that the pact of trust between institutions and citizens cannot be based on the announcements of manufacturers, but must provide for transparency, protection and continuous control by the Government. Vaccinal hesitation is a complex and difficult phenomenon to deal with and you cannot liquidate with a "vaccinate yourself all, otherwise you are reckless." It is one of the global dangers to public health in 2019, according to WHO. One in six Italians has already decided that they will not vaccinate, while 42 percent of Italians will wait to have data on the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. The Minister's decision not to make vaccination compulsory, an unthinkable measure for a vaccine authorised in the emergency phase, of which safety still needs to be assessed, is welcome. We cannot force a citizen to vaccinate at this stage, but even after trust we will have to conquer, we will not be able to impose, so it will be equally important to build, in these months preceding the definitive authorization, an inclusive and transparent path, so that the obligation becomes moral for the citizens and there is the line to vaccinate. That is why I hope that the majority resolution has included recommendations to this effect. If, on the one hand, we are going to face a path of monitoring and persuasion to the vaccine, on the other hand, the right to the vaccine is not guaranteed to everyone. In this sense, the petition "Vaccino bene comunale" (common good), a principle that the Minister mentioned because of its importance, has reached almost 50,000 signatures, so I ask him to consider it. The pandemic, as the World Trade Organisation (WTO) has said, represents an unprecedented devastation not only for health, but also for the global economy and trade. The health emergency produced by the new coronavirus requires, as never before, conditions of rapid access to all medical instruments, including pharmaceutical products such as diagnostics, vaccines and medicines for the prevention of infection and the care of sick people. The scarcity affects mainly (but not only) the middle and low-income countries, puts in grave danger of life the health workers of all the world - not only of our country - and determines the death of a significant number of essential workers during this prolonged pandemic. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the possibility of access to essential products in the world is highly unequal, not the same for everyone. Some reject the vaccine and others unfortunately cannot have it. The richest countries, representing 13% of the world's population, have already taken over two billion doses of potential vaccines against Covid-19. One of the main barriers to access to essential medicines is intellectual property rights, i.e. the twenty-year patent monopoly regime which the Trade related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) of the World Trade Organisation confer on industries. For this reason, on 14 November 2001, the WTO member states adopted the historic Doha Declaration which gave them the right to use all the necessary flexibility to respond to public health needs by way of derogation from patents. India and South Africa have proposed to suspend the Trips treaties and have requested support from many governments. We therefore call for Italy to work with conviction, within the European Union, in consultation with other countries, that the hostility of the Commission to the initiative of India and South Africa be immediately reviewed and instead accepted for Covid-19 the temporary exception to the ordinary regime of the Trips agreement, so that the vaccine becomes truly a common good. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u28	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u29	Mr President, I thank the Minister for being here today to inform us about the situation with regard to Covid, but also about the strategic plan for the acquisition of the vaccine and about the vaccination plan for the population. The measures taken in the previous DCCM have led us to see positive results, as you, Minister, have told us, but, as you have also reminded us, unfortunately we still need a lot of caution, absolute caution, and the more than 50,000 deceased, according to the accounts we have every day, I think they make us bear this in mind. The new provisions therefore go in this direction: to avoid the third wave - because that could be the future - that we really can no longer afford both from a health point of view (the pressure on our structures and on healthcare professionals, which we always thank, can no longer go any further) and from an economic point of view (see what is happening in economic activities unfortunately forced to close). I must say that it has been true foresight that has led to the classification of the regions according to the health and epidemiological emergencies, which change in an extemporaneous way. It's an addition to what was supposed to be a national lockdown, and it's helping us preserve some regions. We must certainly be careful: it is true, Minister, that Christmas will be different from all the others - this is before everyone else's eyes - but we must also have our families extremely at heart, because at a time like this a minimum of closeness must have it, at least in order to share this difficult passage of our existence. There is also a need for consistency with the economic activities that are being opened and closed: if we close activities, we cannot keep others open where we risk incredible gatherings, as we have seen on television, for the opening of shopping centres. This requires targeted and consistent action on what needs to be done in order to be better understood by our citizens. With regard to the television services of the last few days on tampons, I would like to point out that many citizens cannot wait so long for themselves in their homes. I saw a service last night, for example, that really shook my heart. Minister, I know that a lot has been done, but I ask you to insist on this again, because people must be listened to especially when they are isolated and need comfort and to speak to someone who pays attention to them. On the subject of vaccines, yesterday we also had the hearing of the Director-General of the European Commission's Health Directorate, and I shared some passages: for example, as you yourself said, the fact that there is unity of intent on the part of the whole of Europe for the acquisition of vaccines. This is an important step that will be the prelude to possibly having a unified health care also in Europe. It is important, in my opinion, to see opportunities that can be seized in an emergency of this kind. Vaccinating must not be an obligation, but a duty; we owe it to all those more fragile categories that cannot do it. We have always said this: we must think about protecting those who have the same right to live in the greatest possible security. So vaccination will become an act of civil responsibility to achieve that immunity of flock of which you, Minister, spoke earlier. It is good that the vaccine is a common and free good for all, even for those who cannot afford it. We must therefore rightly pay attention to this. We also need more pharmacovigilance: you said that in a passage and it is very appropriate that all our agencies (AIFA in the first place) report on how many adverse events there are. As my colleague said earlier, it is a new vaccine that we are experimenting with very little time compared to all the other vaccines for the various coincidences that have been created, so we must be careful so that pharmacovigilance and the observation of all possible adverse events become important. Another thing you said, Minister, on which I very much agree, is to employ our graduates and future residents immediately to help us do vaccinations. That's fine, but be careful because these young people are doing wonderfully other activities as well. I remember that the Special Care Continuity Units (USCA) are also supported by residents so if we don't take them off one side we can't use them on another side. I therefore ask that, together with the Ministry of University and Research, we be able to verify all the activities that these young people can continue to carry out, because I remember that the ranking will allow, in the near future, to assign the residents. So let's pay attention to the activities that we give them, even if it's okay to use them immediately to help, along with, of course, military doctors and all those who can help us in the course of vaccination. From this point of view, Minister, I hope that there will be cooperation, as I see that there has been with Minister Guerini, so that the whole Government, as a whole, can have a vaccination plan, of course also with the intervention of the local authorities. As for the school, which other colleagues have already mentioned, it is a painful note. I too wish the schools were and would remain open. There have been emergencies and there has been an intervention on these. Distance learning is not the solution and will never be, because the interpersonal relationships that are created in schools are fundamental and important for the growth of the individual. Therefore, from this point of view we absolutely must do more on the subject of transport, which has not yet been resolved. Finally, Minister, I would like to say one last thing. The funds will, unfortunately, be over. We have rightly used them to counter and buffer the emergency situation, but we need to think about the future, to make the assumptions we have made in our health system structural, using the National Health Fund as a current part, because we know that people are being paid with the current part. Instead, we use other investment funds; there will be others and they must be used to invest in community homes, hospitals and digitisation. Thank you, Minister. That is our point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his informative speech, but this is also a budgetary moment. The government has arrived strongly unprepared for the second wave, without a strategy: serious and effective planning has been lacking; there has been no proper prevention. You have had months to boost public transport, to hire doctors and nurses, to increase intensive therapies, but nothing has been done throughout this period. He's wasting his time. For several days on television we saw an ad scroll, starting with a question: "Are you a doctor?" and ended with an offer of accommodation, a daily allowance and a reimbursement of expenses. Is this not yet another symbol of the lack of that programming that a responsible Government should have put in place in time? You didn't boost transport, just as you upgraded tracking and basic medicine; you didn't strengthen the National Health Service, yet everyone said there was going to be a second wave; "Tracement" and "prevention": these had to be the watchwords. All programs that have been successful in fighting the virus have been based on tracking asymptomatics. We are in the current situation because from May to September no one has put in place a plan. Only the commendable work of all those who have worked and operate in the field, in trenches (and you also mentioned it, Minister), from health workers to all those who with enormous sacrifice fight every day to help us, has allowed us to avoid an even worse scenario. The impression is that those who govern us surf a little 'on sight, with a shot at the circle and one at the barrel: first it prohibits one thing, then it gives up and gives it a little, without a program, without a line, without anything that makes us understand what is really better for the good of the country. The second wave is unfortunately the predictable and anticipated result of the omissions of the past months on all crucial sides: no programming of drive-in swabs, no tracking of contacts, no control of assembly, no recruitment of health personnel, no strengthening of intensive therapies. Instead of doing these things, you told us that the whole world admired the Italian model of contrast to the epidemic and you gave us - allow me the banal controversy - wheelchairs and Chinese scooters. I would like to leave out the missing dossier of the World Health Organisation (WHO) which, according to the investigation by Minister, it would be not only necessary, but also fair to have explanations on this matter, because it raises very serious questions which are added to others that have never been clarified in the past. We demand for the interest of the Italians words of truth. There are those who warned of the danger in May, who in June and who in July, but from mid-August one could not fail to understand why all the indicators - I emphasize - said that the curve did not grow linearly, but exponentially. Now the knots have come to the comb and great is the confusion. There are different views and positions and roboating ads that have only remained ads. It is precisely the individual government measures that show how late and therefore ineffective this strategy has been. Now you have remembered to be interested in the basic doctors for rapid tests and for the welfare coverage of the territory; now the government pulls out its plan to fight the virus. Mr Minister, in the restaurant you put EUR 100 million to be given to Arcuri for the purchase of anti-Covid drugs, but what are these drugs since yesterday in the guidelines are not indicated particular drugs? [[Applause.]] It is late and, unfortunately, all Italians have understood it on their own skin. Minister, we have been hearing you say for months that the National Health System needs to be strengthened, so we are beginning to do something concrete. Minister, amend, for example, Article 15 of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, which provided for a reduction of hospital beds charged to the Regional Health Service, completed in 2018, which is causing and which will soon cause the downsizing of many departments and hospital facilities in many regions, including mine and his. Today, in the face of a health crisis that has severely affected our health structures, it is absurd to close or reduce many of these structures. Minister, say that we will have to live with this virus for a long time, regardless of vaccines. What do you think you're doing? Close us home all the time because it's the easiest choice for you? If this irresponsibility could also be justified in March, when no one knew what to do with it, what happened since September has no justification and no mea culpa was proposed by the President of the Count Council: he never apologized to the Italians. The inability to organize and prepare for a new Covid wave is the emblem and responsibility of this Government. We hope that this will not also happen with regard to the vaccination plan, which you have explained to us, but the fact that everything is managed, once again, by the mega Commissioner Arcuri does not leave us much hope. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u33	Mr President, to begin with, I wanted to ask Minister Speranza a question because he is filming all the newspapers online. Minister, we want to know if the news is true that on October 17 for the technical-scientific committee the restaurants could keep open in the evening and if, therefore, it was a decision taken of his own free will without listening to the technicians with whom the Ministry collaborates. [[Applause.]] If this news were true, it would be very serious. Before we enter into this matter, I would like to remind you that some Members in this House have spoken of the need for cooperation since we are in a Christmas spirit and are approaching Christmas. The League is not Santa Claus and does not give gifts and discounts to anyone and, in particular, to those who destroyed this country. [[Applause.]] So go and review Celtic traditions a bit: I prefer to be considered the Grinch today rather than Santa Claus towards you. [[Applause]] To make this speech, Mr President, I went to pick up an email that was sent to me tonight by an entrepreneur in my city and I would like to share it with you, reading it, because that is what people, who Italians think of you: "Dear Gianma, excuse the inconvenience, but now I sleep less and less at night and I allow myself to write to you, as they say, this message belly, as a citizen and as an Italian entrepreneur. For Italy I'll tell you something for granted: May, June, July, August, four months of truce to organize things and instead nothing. In summer controls, organization and zero monitoring. They gave rules that did not enforce at all (see with us restaurateurs). In autumn came the second wave; predictable? Sure. So slowly school: did something? Nothing. Transport plan, did you do something? Nothing. Hospital plan, did you do something? Nothing. So what does the government do? It's closing. The easiest thing: in doubt, I close everything and I'm not wrong. And then, after that, the "Risiko Street," the red, orange, yellow zones, to pretend an attempt to not lock down total, even if in the red zones the basic rules would have been those of the lockdown of March. You want an example? I did in the car Milan-Rome, I turned Rome a lot and I came back: I have never seen a check. A government that does and doesn't control. Basically, in not having the strength to stop everything, really everything, realizing the summer's impriety, they started to close a few things and play with crayons. Meanwhile, we have 700 dead a day. Some will say: but the other states also have problems. Nice satisfaction! But what have other states done to support closed companies? Money, many, and now. For example, Germany: Germany's economic measures, over 353 billion euro, plus over 800 billion loan guarantees, launched over several months, from March-June onwards. In Italy, nothing. In Germany, money arrived all and immediately. If you're in the government, dear Minister, you have to give rules, you have to enforce them and prove that your choices save lives and economics. And then there's credibility. You go out on TV and you say you do, you give and you do, but that's absolutely not true. The last on all: the refreshments will surely arrive by 15 November. That's not true. I didn't get anything. You don't have to lie. You don't have to give the INS after three months, if that's okay, but you have to give it right away. Times and decisions are fundamental. And now, dear state, I don't believe you anymore. Do you have high school and closed universities? Yes. Do you have full hospitals? Yes. Did you tell the entrepreneurs to comply with the Covid rules, that you would then recognize 60% in tax credit? Did you miscalculate it and turn it into about 16%? What are we talking about? My six-year-old son doesn't miss a math test that much either. You have open activities in difficulty and others completely closed. And then you decide to keep the ski resorts closed, doing another damage to the huge tourism because you didn't organize yourself in time with rules for the ski resorts? Yes. But I want to see who goes to Austria or Switzerland to ski how they stop and guarantee quarantine. This entrepreneur adds: I have dozens of friends who have already booked. You're making the world of tourism and air tourism fail, and international speculators are coming to our hotels. You know, government, they're failing hundreds of restaurants that have adapted and you haven't checked? And now you're keeping them all closed, with thousands of people in the Integration Fund. But do you know, Government, that in the meantime, private homes and taverns continue to organize dinners and parties without any rules? And, trust me, if you want, I have a list of five pages written in small. Has the government been able to avoid this? No. Do 700 people die a day? Yes. Then the government failed. Point's in. This entrepreneur's letter I fully subscribe to, because it takes a picture of what is happening and has happened in this country. [[Applause]] You are not ruling the pandemic; you are not ruling anything! And now, Minister, tell us that at Christmas Italians will not be able to reach their families of origin or separate parents not to see their children; you tell us that many young people, men, women, children will not be able to live the holidays in the family, confined in the regions where they work and study. Think of how many young people in the South are in the North working, who thanks to you or because of you will not be able to go home. Tell us that we will not be able to move even among the Municipalities, tell us that Jesus child - because by now you also write the Gospel - must be born at 22 instead of 24. [[Applause]] But what is the difference between 10 p.m. and 9 p.m., dear Minister? Tell us that we will not be able to stay in the family in more than six people and penalize large families, because you told us that if there are more than six people in the family it is not good. Tell us that the schools could open earlier, I've heard it from my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars. Is it true that teachers would like to teach not with distance learning, but what have you done to protect them? (at 11.45 a.m.) There are classrooms in which, in 20 square meters, there are more than 30 people and so how can you think that you can do that, since you have done nothing, leaving the principals and school autonomy the responsibility without assuming it to you? You tell us all these things after every Italian citizen has seen what happened in Naples in recent days. You are not able to guarantee public order, you are not able to enforce your rules. [[Applause]] You are unable to allow Italian citizens to live and have a normal life. Minister, you have failed, you do not have a strategy and so what the Italians ask you is that you give them a Christmas present: go home and get rid of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u35	Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by emphasising some of the problems that have arisen during these months of pandemics. First of all, I think it is necessary to note the disparity and inequalities in the application of the measures adopted by the central government throughout the national territory. Unfortunately, the reform of Title V of the Constitution has led us to have many different regional health systems, a model that has shown all its limitations and on which a deep reflection will be necessary. It will be necessary to seriously rethink health management with the aim of limiting inequalities between the different regions, which this pandemic has simply accentuated, all this also through a radical change of Title V, shared as much as possible by all political forces. In many regions, despite the resources allocated by the Government, there have been serious delays both in the activation of the USCA (special units of care continuity), and in the increase in the number of beds of intensive care. In this sense, for example, we have also seen unclear situations. In my region, Campania, there was confusion with the use of the formula "escamotage" active places and "posti activabili" as if the emergency or the urgent availability of beds could be procrastinated or delayed over time and instead not be an immediate urgency, capable of making the difference between life and death. I also wanted to highlight, Minister, the major problem of territorial medicine. During this pandemic, the need for a more rational organization of the 5 Star Movement has emerged, as has long been the case, and the need to strengthen - let me say - the indispensable, Minister, of home care, also through greater responsibility and more active involvement of doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice. It is all the more necessary to put doctors in the best conditions to be able to operate safely for themselves and their patients. In the same way, it does not escape that the basic doctors, true sentinels and bulwark on the territory, play a fundamental role in our health organization and that, as a result, they need to become increasingly aware of their role. It will be necessary to strengthen a continuous and direct and less telephone approach with their patients, who will thus feel safer and less abandoned, in order to arrive, as already said, at the USA, activated in an uneven and insufficient way in some regions, such as Campania, which, according to the latest data, would have activated a little more than 15 percent. The logical and dramatic consequence of this is the very serious delays that have occurred, as reported by many citizens, both in the execution of swabs to the contacts of the positive subjects and in the care and proper home management of patients with Covid-19 whose clinical conditions, if monitored and checked periodically with the appropriate home therapies and according to the established protocols, do not need hospitalization, to be reserved for the most serious cases. We know very well that only the implementation of adequate home care can really lighten the burden of hospital facilities. If we analyze the Covid problem, we all say that the virus spreads quickly and the course of the epidemiological curve changes quickly and continuously. The logical consequence of this is that the responses and all the measures taken must necessarily be commensurate with the various critical issues that gradually emerge and modulated in order to better contrast and resolve them. Let's get to today. All individual and collective measures, together with citizens' sense of responsibility, slow down the infection and transmission of the virus. However, only the availability and wide spread of the use of a safe and effective vaccine, with its correct distribution to increasingly wider bands of the population, represent the extra weapon, able to put a firm and decisive point in this difficult battle that the whole world is fighting, allowing really to breathe a sigh of relief. From now on, with the vaccine, we will not always have to chase the virus, but we will have the possibility to prevent the impact of Covid-19 on the individual and on the community. The objective of the national anti-Covid vaccination plan will be to immunize about 70 percent of the Italian population, or about 40 million people in a reasonable time. It is an important but not utopian goal and a sine qua non to achieve a true immunity of flock. It is clear that this will require the commitment of all forces in the field and a staggered operation over the months. It will be essential to compare with the regions in order to better organize a careful and safe distribution of the doses of the vaccine, the control of the storage of the vials and the programming of the subjects to be vaccinated and the priorities to be respected. The protective efficacy of the currently available anti-Covid vaccines is recognised by the scientific community, although each of them has different rates of immunisation. Aspects to be verified will be the protective duration of induced antibodies and the need for booster doses over the following years after the first two initials. Of course, in the face of the many images of suffering and death, we needed an answer that was fast and effective but also safe. A correct and effective information, communication and awareness campaign for citizens will be important to explain the importance of vaccination and to encourage voluntary, convinced and participatory participation as much as possible. The vaccination campaign will have to give a clear message on the safety of vaccines, on the one hand, but, on the other, it will have to insist on the concept that the protection of the individual is also essential to protect others. This campaign must be launched and motivated on conscious but non-compulsory choices. Being vaccinated is a right of all, giving everyone the opportunity to do so safely and free of charge is a duty of the institutions. In the application of the plan will then be important the involvement of the basic medicine, not only to prepare a fertile soil in the territory of propensity and willingness to vaccination, but also to signal the subjects who, by pathology or by age, are destined in the first place to receive the initial doses of the vaccine. Particular attention will be paid to the RSA (health care situation), to the staff who work there and to their guests; attention that I consider fundamental, considering the sad sacrifice of human lives that they have had to suffer for the spread of the pandemic. There is no doubt that healthcare professionals will have to be among the first to receive the vaccine for their personal protection and for the protection of the caregivers. It would be nice, Minister, if caregivers and parents with children with disabilities were included among the priorities for the difficult task of caring for vulnerable people. This vaccine is a hope and the most important task we will have in the coming months will be to monitor its distribution and administration. Having entered into two major agreements with different pharmaceutical companies, Pfizer and AstraZeneca, our country will have both greater availability of vaccine doses and better timing of supply. The government is continuing to support the categories in difficulty due to closures, in the knowledge that no one must be left behind and that, unfortunately, until the distribution of the vaccine begins, but also beyond, the protection of human lives will pass through the use of masks and social distance. Only in this way, and I conclude, Mr President, can we return to the much desired normalization of our social life, even if nothing can be the same as before. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u36	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his communications. The pandemic is an event that has found the whole world unprepared, but it is good to point out that the direction of the government and the commendable work of all health workers, doctors, nurses and social health workers, have been organized in a very short time. At the same time, the work of the Government and healthcare professionals has enabled an appropriate approach to the major pandemic problem. The National Health Service is truly at the forefront, as we have been confirmed by other countries that have praised it. During these months, with the various DPCM and in particular with the so-called re-launch decree, the fundamental role of territorial medicine has been highlighted. The role of the family doctor has also been highlighted and must be fully assisted by an important figure: the family nurse. I am the first signatory to a draft law which has been incardinated and is following its course in 12th Commission. The time has come to change; the concept of hospital-centric activity must be changed, intervention must be made on territorial medicine for the various reasons that emerged during the pandemic phase. The patient should only resort to the hospital facility when clinical conditions require multi-specialistic care that cannot be ensured at home. The restrictive measures taken by the Government, respecting all the necessary behaviors that everyone now knows (the distance, the washing of the hands and the use of the mask are fundamental), the fundamental thing is, however, as the Minister said, the arrival of the vaccine. The vaccine is a fundamental condition for determining the immunity of flock, but it is also necessary to provide adequate information to invite people to undergo the vaccine; in fact, in the newspapers it is stated that one in six people does not want to do so, so it is necessary to demonstrate in every way and to inform that vaccination is fundamental and therefore to put in place an adequate information campaign. The mistake made in the summer must not be repeated at all and we must cooperate absolutely all in order to avoid a third relapse. We therefore follow the directives of the Technical and Scientific Committee and the World Health Organisation. Thank you again for your communications. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u38	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his report in this House today and for the work that the Government is doing. I have focused on the opening of your report in which you referred to our Constitution and the values it recalls. When you sometimes face difficulties, I am the first, in normal life experiences, to refer to principles. We are certainly going through a unique period in the history of humanity: in a globalized world, this invisible enemy of humanity has reached all parts of the world. It is not like once when, if there was a plague, it stopped in a city, because there were no transports that there are today; today, however, with the spread of the movements, this phenomenon has pervaded the world. We have been able to ascertain that there is science at the basis of the government's choices, there is common sense and there is also caution. We are trying to save the most fragile, the most vulnerable, the elderly and even someone younger who may not be in good health. In this context, I therefore believe that it is absolutely not worthy of praise to exploit the difficulties. We all know that we need caution, that we need restrictions, and we all need to try to send this message to the people in this House. No one can be pleased to be locked up in the house, but we know we have to. Mr President, I shall end my speech with a reference to a personal matter. I fell for this problem, I was able to reconstruct the contacts I had, and for this reason I am absolutely convinced that some caution is needed and we must know how to communicate it to the entire population, because Italy is doing well and the Government is working in the best possible way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u40	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u41	Mr President, in his report, the Minister has already made clear the priorities on which our country will move with regard to the vaccination plan. I think that we are working well, knowing that we are in a situation - I repeat - still of uncertainty, because all the authorisations by the regulatory bodies are still not clear. However, I would like to stress once again, Mr President, and I believe that this is an issue on which you too are very sensitive. In these days we have promoted, together with many scientists and colleagues, an appeal, which has reached and exceeded 50,000 signatures, to ensure that the watchwords are to ensure universal access to vaccines, the access of all citizens to vaccines. The hope is that these beautiful passwords can actually be realized, because we know perfectly well that in all the pandemics, but never like in this one, there is a real problem of access to essential products by various countries. There are the richest countries and the poorest countries, but there are also great inequalities within the richest countries. It is a problem that the world has faced several times; we have had to deal with HIV and other viruses and dangerous epidemics. Certainly not everything depends on our country, but it is time, President, to work as Italy in the European Commission, so that the Commission itself, which is very important and decisive, can ensure that the World Trade Organisation suspends the TRIPS agreements, which in fact regulate the monopoly on patents and intellectual property rights. It is clear to everyone, Mr President, that patents last 20 years and to ensure access to vaccines and anti-Covid medicines we must absolutely suspend the regime provided for in the TRIPS agreements. We are not talking about eliminating them - we are going to deal with them at another stage, because this should be the objective - but about suspending them and therefore suspending the monopoly regime on patents. This is the only possibility (along with many others of course, but this is absolutely essential) to ensure that access to vaccines is guaranteed to everyone. This concerns both poor countries and the problems that can arise within individual countries. The Vatican is moving in this direction; Countries such as South Africa and India have already taken action to ask all countries of the World Trade Organisation for a derogation from the obligations contained in the TRIPS Agreement. It is absolutely essential that our country can finally take on an important battle that concerns Italy, concerns universal rights of access to vaccines and especially concerns poor countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u42	I beg colleagues to avoid the gathering.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u43	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). I know that the Minister on this point is particularly sensitive and, indeed, I call on all my colleagues to make this very appeal, which is also circulating on the net and has received a great deal of support. For all these reasons, Mr President, we are sure that on this specific aspect, which we will also propose to President Conte on 9 December when he comes to report on the European Council, we will do a great service to Italy and a great service to the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u44	I declare closed the debate on the Minister of Health's communications. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani and No 2 by Senators Pirro, Boldrini, Errani and Sbrollini. The lyrics are in distribution. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. I call on the Minister for Health, Mr Hope, to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank all the senators who took part in this debate, who have certainly been rich and will be able to help us in the work of the next few hours. I will try to reply briefly, given the long introduction I wanted to make, but the themes have been many, because, as you know, we have divided the discussion on two fundamental issues: the first, the next DPCM and the epidemiological picture of the country; the second, the presentation of the strategic plan on the Covid vaccine, an absolutely priority theme, as you know, for the future of our community. On the first point, with reference to the epidemiological plan, we must have the strength and courage to say clearly to our public opinion and to ourselves that there are two truths that may appear in contradiction, but that in reality they are not. The first truth is that, for a few weeks, finally, we see encouraging data, which point to progress in the right direction. I have been able to indicate what has happened on the famous transmission index of the contagion, the RT, in the last four weeks: we have gone from 1.7 to 1.4, then to 1.18 and, since the last detection, to 1.08. This means that the measurements are working and that, little by little, the operation of trying to put the curve under control is giving the results we expected. This is a truth with which we have to deal, and the hope is that the first trends, even in terms of the employment of beds in the medical area and in the intensive care, can give us additional elements in the next few days that still go in the direction of a reduction of the contagion, of a reduction of the sick people. If this is an important truth that tells us that we are going in the right direction, that there is finally a trend that leads us in the right direction, the other truth is that there is still a very complicated situation in our country. In absolute numbers, infections are very high; deaths are, unfortunately, in very high numbers, and still the same pressure on beds in intensive and subtensive care and in medical area is very high. This calls for a very cautious and very precautionary approach which we must consider essential if we are to keep the curve under control. I say one thing about everyone, which seems to me of particular importance: to date there are more than 320 cases in our country every 100,000 inhabitants; it is a very high number. All the best scientific studies of our technicians indicate how the figure to bring under control in a particular way the contact tracing, the tracing, is that of 50 cases every 100,000 inhabitants. It means that we have made a piece of the road, but that is not enough; we must continue to do an insistent job that allows us to fully bring the curve back under control. For this reason, we need, in the next DCCM, to maintain a line of rigour, seriousness and great caution and prudence regarding what can happen. I say this particularly with regard to the peculiarity of the phase and the season we are going towards, namely the phase of the Christmas holidays, which in itself carries the risk of an increase in travel, of an increase in contact between people, and therefore requires an even higher level of attention. In the next DPCM, the Government's intention will be first of all to reconfirm the three-colour system, with red, orange and yellow bands, which has so far created the conditions to put the epidemic back under control in our country. The solution that we put on the field last month with the construction of this plant by bands, which depend on the epidemiological situation of each Region, has brought a result that goes in the right direction, so we must confirm this model, behind which there is the attempt - which I think of the greatest importance - to bend the curve without a generalized lockdown. This is the big difference with the month of March. In March, Italy was the first country to bend the curve, indicating the road of a generalized lockdown. Instead, in this second wave, we are trying to bend the curve with a different model, that allows us to read what happens, territory by territory, region by region, to bring back the curve of the contagion under control, without making us pay the social, economic and even cultural price of a general closure. The second axis of the DPCM will have to deal with the need to manage, in the most careful way possible, the days of the Christmas holidays. We will try to work to limit travel from international ones, to limit travel between regions and, on the most delicate days, also to limit travel between municipalities. We must avoid in every way that there is a coincidence, at the end of January or at the beginning of February, between a potential phase of re-emergence of the virus and the start of this extraordinary operation, imposing, really very important, which is vaccination for the Covid. In conclusion of my reply, I would like to reiterate the idea and the basic principles, which will guide us in relation to the vaccination campaign for Covid. I have always said, since the beginning of this epidemic, that science would take us out of this battle, so difficult and dramatic. Science, in fact, is giving us the first encouraging results, which must make us say, even more forcefully, that public and private investment in scientific research and our scientists need to be strengthened more and more, because science can come with the solutions that we all expect. Now, at this time, in Europe, by the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, no formal approvals have yet been received, but we have two dates marked in red on our calendar: the date of 29 December and the date of 12 January. On these two dates are expected the first validations and the first certifications, which should arrive, respectively, for the Pfizer BioNtech vaccine and for the Modern vaccine. Clearly, I still speak with caution and caution, because we ourselves demand that the EMA carry out all the checks, keeping the surveillance rod very high, because when a vaccine comes to be administered to people, it must certainly be a safe and effective vaccine. As a country, we have closed contracts, through the European Union, for 202 million doses: this is a very significant figure. The first doses will arrive, according to our wishes and the evaluations of our technicians, at the end of January and then, gradually, we will arrive at a larger vaccination, with the essential moments for the end of spring and summer. I think that the most delicate choice, which I have tried to explain to Parliament today, is that of the first categories that we will decide to vaccinate. In fact, the vaccine will arrive, but it will not arrive immediately in all doses and therefore, in the first few weeks, we will have to select the categories to which to administer these doses. The government's assessment is to start from the most risky and most frontier categories, the first of which is definitely that of health care personnel: our doctors, our nurses, our health professionals, who in this battle with the Covid have always been the first line. To vaccinate them means to strengthen the resilience of our National Health Service as well as to prevent their possible contagion from transferring to patients, who are very often carriers of fragility and therefore weaker and more at risk than the results of the Covid. A second key category will be the elderly, health care centres and health residences. In fact, in these months, we have seen that when the virus enters such places it manages to charge a very salty price even in terms of human lives. More generally, the other great category will be that of the elderly. I think that on the game of vaccination our country must play a great unitary challenge and put in place all the energies it has. We're talking about the biggest mass vaccination operation we've ever seen in our country. We need to put into place all the energies we have, from the Republican institutions, the Regions, the National Government, to the resources of our Armed Forces and Civil Protection. We will put all our energies into play because this is a great national challenge. It is a challenge for everyone that we must absolutely commit all energy to. Finally, let me repeat that precisely because of the meaning of this challenge, we, as a Parliament, should give a very strong message to everyone, unitedly and without distinction between majority and opposition, in favour of a vaccination campaign that is the real great opportunity for the country to try to overcome the stage of difficulty. On the basis of the brief assessments contained in my reply and on the basis of the long communications I made at the opening of this sitting, I welcome resolution No 2 by the majority and some of the points in Resolution No 1 by my opposition colleagues. In particular, I welcome the points in Resolution No 1 which I consider to be positive about the common challenge of the vaccine. I repeat this because we must not split up for politics on the vaccination campaign. It is a great goal of the whole country, so my opinion is favorable on the commitment to ), up to the words "Covid-19" and on the commitment c). I think this message goes in the right direction because on this battle, on this huge challenge to vaccinate millions and millions of Italians we play a great game as a country and we need everything except useless divisions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u48	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister whether he has expressed his support for Resolution No 2 of the majority, in the text I have seen in its place, on the benches of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u49	The text on which the Minister has spoken is Resolution No 2 signed by Pirro, Boldrini, Errani and Sbrollini, which is a text 1, if that is what he wanted to know, that is, the synthetic text in which it is said that the Senate, after hearing the Minister's communications, approves them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u52	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to make one point: I and my fellow Members, Mrs Bressa, Mr Cattaneo and others, will vote on the majority motion for a resolution, but since I am speaking on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies, I have a moral obligation to explain that Senators Steger, Durnwalder and Laniece do not feel that they should vote on the majority resolution on issues related to different assessments on the subject of the mountain, because they represent territories such as the Province of Bolzano and Val d'Aosta and feel that they have a critical position with regard to the measures that the Government has on the subject of mountain and ski season. Having said that, I want to be very brief and say that in this Parliament, as usual, we are reading the same script: we are dividing between triumphants and defeatists. The triumphalists are ready to explain that the Government is essentially putting in place a kind of model that others would be committed to copying, and the defeatists are committed to explaining that the Government has wrong everything and that in Italy what does not happen in any other part of the world occurs. Colleagues, I would say to keep the hot spirits in the closets, because it is not the case to uncomfortable neither triumphalism nor defeatism, because they are both wrong attitudes, which, moreover, contrast with a serious thing that the Minister said: he made an appeal to the unity of the country to face the storm that we are experiencing. I'd like to put a few questions in line. The first is as follows: today Professor Cassese on the "Corriere della Sera" - Professor Cassese is not the last to arrive in Italy, because he was not only an authoritative member of the Constitutional Court, but he is a scientist of the law that the whole world envyes us - he says that we faced an institutional babel in the relationship between the State and the Regions. I fully agree with him and believe that if there is still any doubt, this matter has confirmed the need to intervene legislatively to clarify the gaps that exist in our legislation and our laws in the relationship between the central state and the regions. A little everyone, the State and the Regions, played the mutual unload in this affair, except then criticize one or the other when the measures were taken in a kind of game of rip-off. This is an institutional problem and concerns the centre-left and centre-right, who governs today and who will rule tomorrow, because governments pass but the institutions remain, and Parliament remains. I believe this warning should not be dropped. The Babel that existed between the State and the Regions also occurred within the State itself. I have to say to the Minister of Relations with Parliament and Minister Hope, colleagues who are esteemed by everyone here beyond our visions, that we are also in danger of having a Babel in the State. When I hear, for example, that, with regard to the recovery fund and the ESM issue, dozens of committees with hundreds of experts are in the process of being established, I have the doubt that there is a sort of ministerial commission in place. I do not think it is right that the Ministries should be dismissed; if the Ministers do not work, we should change the Ministers, but we cannot accept basically some sort of institutional confusion for which, among scientists, committees, experts and ministers, nothing can be understood anymore. In fact, the real risk is not the integration between science and politics, to which Minister Hope referred, which is fair and necessary, but a kind of duplication of competences in which in the end we no longer understand who the responsibilities are and maybe, in the confusion of responsibility, then we produce solutions that, in my opinion, are not the best. I would like to say one thing that concerns two categories of citizens of the country: the elderly and young people. The elderly need to respect their need for affectivity: the loneliness of the elderly is one of the great issues that the pandemic poses in its cruelty. In regulating the theme of Christmas, therefore, keep in mind that the elderly need to feel a affection around them: I certainly do not speak of family meetings, which produce virus clusters, but we certainly cannot leave them alone. Then there are the young people who actually need to go to school. [[Applause]] The young people who are at home are deeply frustrated, because our children, 12, 13, 15 or 16 years old, live for their school sociality and need the school to be open at all costs. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, when I read some interviews with those responsible who explain that the benches have been bought, but that it was not their responsibility to worry about transport, we all know that the problem is not only that of the desks, but also how the kids arrive at school because, if they then crowd on the transport... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Excuse me, Mr President, but it is uncivilized that the microphone is turned off when one is finished. I have to finish my speech and finish, but I tell the technicians to avoid, please, turning off the microphone, because they really seem to censor people's words.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u53	Senator Casini, I never take the word off. Automatically the microphone is switched off when the available time is over. I usually give way to continue and I never interrupt, but I would also ask everyone to stick to the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u54	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I must say that I am very careful: I was not referring to you, but to the technicians. In any case, to conclude, I believe that ideological disputes over the ESM are not needed, just as I believe it is necessary to use this instrument to adapt a health system which, especially in the areas of basic prevention, has very great shortcomings.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u57	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Minister, I believe that we must be able to pass on to the country - and on this I call - also a little 'optimism and that, as we communicate that this Christmas will not be the same as the other years, but at the same time we must also say that the passage of the next Christmas holidays will perhaps be the last real test for Italy. In fact, if we can hook up to the vaccine - you told us that in January we will probably be able to already do the first vaccinations on about 1,700,000 Italians, starting from the most at risk categories such as healthcare professionals and public sector operators, in addition to the elderly - we must avoid exclusively that in these Christmas holidays we make the mistakes of last summer. The other train to hook is the recovery train. In fact, once the story of the health emergency is closed (we hope soon), we will have to face an economic crisis that for now we are anesthetizing thanks to the refreshments and interventions that the state is doing in an extraordinary way precisely for the economic losses, but that will explode when we have closed the health emergency. Therefore, everything must be synchronized and function well otherwise the country risks blowing up. Therefore, it is very important to communicate well with regard to the events concerning Christmas, which is the last passage at risk. Minister, we were convinced and convinced of vaccination because every time this country faced an epidemic it resolved it with the attainment of herd immunity in a short time and with the vaccination obligation. We are also happy with the path you propose: start with widespread vaccination and awareness. If, if this vaccination campaign does not have the desired effects, vaccination may be carried out. Mr. Minister, that's okay, the important thing is that the objective is flock immunity because we wouldn't want to replace the categories at risk today (older people and people with disease that Covid puts at risk) with all categories of immunodepressed and cancer patients who cannot vaccinate and need flock immunity in order to survive. Therefore, we must avoid exchanging only those who are at risk; we must solve this problem definitively. The immunity of the flock will be indispensable. Equally indispensable is to counter a really invasive and heavy campaign "No Vax". [[Applause.]] Often it happens that part of politics and political parties wink at these No Vax in the most diverse ways. I think it's irresponsible. Therefore, the vaccination campaign that you have proposed and the distribution plan, but Minister, pay attention, because on influenza vaccines, when we had to intervene on some millions of citizens and the enhancement of a vaccine that we are still used to, we found difficulties. When we have to carry out a vaccination campaign that will involve at least 40 million people in a very short time, these difficulties could be amplified in terms of the distribution and extraordinary use of means. That is why we proposed the Army. If, in fact, we rely only on ASLs, basic doctors and those who helped in the period of the influenza vaccine, in the face of the millions of vaccines to be made, we risk finding ourselves in difficulty. It's important not to miss. We have tested influenza vaccines, swabs and distribution of desks at school. On all these things we have found some critical issues, but today those mistakes must be lessons in order not to commit them again because the passage of the vaccine is decisive and we can not afford absolutely to miss. Therefore, the plan that you have submitted to us is fine. With respect to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister, I always hear the broken record of those who say that we must go home, that we cannot, of those who say: They want us to steal Christmas. This was the expression that used Salvini several times. I don't think anyone wants to steal Christmas from Italians. [[Applause]] The situation of difficulty is really objective and no one has the pleasure of living Christmas in this way. The problem is that we don't have to be robbed of Christmas, but we don't have to be robbed of our affections by the Covid-19, our grandparents, our parents, who will be put at risk if our behavior doesn't live up to it. Therefore, putting the country in health security is our priority. We have to get past the last mile with Epiphany, with the last day of hypothetical Christmas parties. Then we can finally get the country back on track. We do not listen, Minister - and from this point of view you are giving us the right assurances - who, this summer, explained to us that we should have opened everything and that we were wrong; they were the same people who, when we left and there was the effect of the summer wave, asked us where the government was this summer; they are the same people who now tell us: Why do you have to close at Christmas? Let us celebrate Christmas, and then they will tell us: For what reason have you reopened at Christmas, since there is another wave? The political position is fluctuating according to ours. Since sovereignism and populism make politics by building on the difficulties of others, without supporting the country in delicate moments, it is clear that this will always be the attitude. Therefore, we listen to the best ideas, but at the same time, we are far from exploitations. The plan is working, Minister: the RT index to 1.08 and decreasing means that the plan is working. It is still not enough; you told us that there are 320 cases out of 100,000 inhabitants, while, in order to be normal, there should be 50 cases out of 100,000 inhabitants. We must therefore continue to insist on an instrument that is working. All those who stigmatized the colored regions of yellow or red and who mocked us should rethink the effectiveness of the action put on the field. Of course, Minister, we must have much respect for the sacred passages held in Parliament. When you decide to anticipate government measures on the issue of the Covid-19 with parliamentary passages you must listen to the indications that come from Parliament. On the one hand, I agree with you that the health emergency is considered a priority: we are doing well; on the other hand, I would avoid some angeries, Minister: there is no point in having lunches on 25 and 26 December and on 1 and 6 January in restaurants, as well as travels from one municipality to another or between regions. It is okay to extend until 9 p.m. of the opening of shops. Finally, Minister, let us try, if we can, to get school started before December 25: it would be good. Of course, the two ministers - transport and education - agreed well, because one speaks for the other, and we would like each of them to speak for its area of competence. They coordinated, talked a little less and did a little more, because this is an absolutely delicate issue. [[Applause]] We also do not understand why we must prevent, for example, cruises, which are places where tampons can be made for everyone and are all under control. Speaking of grandparents, I happened to listen to one who told me that, after 80 years alone, she does not intend to spend Christmas alone, without her daughter, and that rather she prefers to die. In front of such expressions, which are certainly very strong, I would make a thought about reunion with my grandparents. Of course, every closure must correspond to a refreshment promptly given, because we have said and done so so far, not always promptly, but the last refreshments have gone very well and we must guarantee them even later. Finally, let's not miss the recovery fund train, which will be the last opportunity not to spend resources, but to invest them and relaunch the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u60	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I note that, as always, the interesting part of the speeches made by my colleagues in the majority is in the last five to six seconds. Also in the intervention of Senator Pharaoh, the first part is the one dedicated to the piggeria and the last one is the one reserved for things that do not go. If we extend the last part and reduce the first part, maybe we can do something good. Minister, you have come to talk about the next measure called Christmas, since we are always titled the measures in a very colorful way, and instead you have referred to us for two thirds of your speech on the subject of vaccines. It is fine, of course, and we thank you for what you have said, but there are still a few passages on this subject that we are very concerned about. The first is that we entrust the distributional part, that is the logistics, that is the management of an entire vaccination plan, to Commissioner Arcuri. Forgive me, Minister, but you must explain to us: if a commissioner structure has failed in all the tasks entrusted to this structure [[Applause]] (I make reference to the Immuni app, the serological investigation, the distribution of influenza vaccines, the history of wheelchairs and those who have more of them) explain to us this therapeutic aggressiveness towards Arcuri who, poor man, waits for someone else to do his job, since he openly declared, for example, that the Immuni app failed and, having made it him, is a sort of confession in a call in fairness to the Government. Moreover, you, Minister, have given us a great deal of insight into the benefit of having acted within the European institutions. Very well done, but I would like to point out to you, Minister, that in the United Kingdom they are beginning to vaccinate next week. Forgive me, Minister, but how do I judge the goodness of an operation done by the Government if not with the speed? This is a time-dependent problem, like the heart attack. The British are vaccinations next week and we are vaccinations in spring, as you said, Minister, I do not know if you have realized this passage. You said that most of our vaccination plan will be expounded in the spring. Are we going to vaccinate, therefore, with how many months of delay compared to other countries that have not followed the path within the European institutions? You boasted that you did not use that clause that gave us a way to do both, you boasted that you did not act by going beyond the system put in place by the European institutions and instead you should have simply opened the two channels, so that you could take advantage of what you used to give us a chance to start to vaccinate. Another matter on which you have kept silent, Minister, forgive me, is the one concerning the national pandemic plan. It's in all the newspapers, it's in everyone's mouth, you can't shut up about these circumstances. He came to Parliament and something about Ranieri Guerra's statements should also tell us about, for example, what General Lunelli writes today. The latter, Minister, states that the plan that we have is without the date of publication and any bibliography, which has allowed it to be dealt with several times as new until 2016. The plan also fails to take into account important guidelines of the World Health Organisation of 2003, 2009, 2013, 2017 and 2018; it does not comply with the provisions of the International Health Regulation (which we quote in our motion for a resolution, to which you have given a negative opinion) which is a legally binding text for Italy on the prevention of epidemics and was ratified in June 2007. Moreover, the plan does not outline a clear structure of coordination, command and control, as it is reported in all the plans of the other countries. The absence of a national pandemic plan is the source of all the problems we have encountered in recent months. [[Applause]] The World Health Organization had dictated to us a strategy based on the famous 3Ts, which I remind you because you, Minister, never quote (but I understand that you do not do it because it would obviously be serious to have to explain it). As for testing, we have not yet activated a massive population test campaign with 500.00-600,000 tests per day and not per month. This was, moreover, requested by a joint motion approved by this branch of Parliament. As for tracking, the Immuni app failed, as Arcuri said. Who can say that more than the one who designed it, thought it, paid it and entrusted it? He's the one who said it failed. So what are we gonna do to track? As for the treatment, we have reported the absence of treatment protocols. The protocol drawn up only a few days ago does not contain the useful and indispensable indications, i.e. the reference to drugs. The doctors of general medicine have no protocols for continuity of care and home care and in the hospital there is a sea of inappropriateness both at the entrance and at the exit. All three pillars indicated by the World Health Organization have not been implemented by this Government. On the other hand, the Commission has acted on the two pillars that are easy and banal or - better - on only one of them. One was what you called mitigation, while I call oppression, serious damage, total closure, lockdown. You only did what was easy to do, which is lockdown. Mr. Minister, we've done two lockdowns, because this is a lockdown for all intents and purposes, even if it's masked. You've clumsily opened schools, and then you have to close them up quickly. You've adopted DPCM as a cluster, like headaches. You have adopted four decrees of refreshment, and you may approve the fifth. Minister, if you play braids, this works when you play a card and you say how it goes. But we are - or should be - legislators and, in a moment of serious emergency like this, adopting four decrees of reform is serious. President Conte went on television to say that in mid-November the refreshments would arrive. I bet a coffee with him in this House and I won it. I don't care about coffee; it interests me that the bet has been lost by the Italians and, above all, by this Government. Minister, you had to tell us about Christmas, but do us a great courtesy to spare ourselves the morale and tell us how we have to live it, which is an intimate dimension and we have to live it at home, away from the lover or girlfriend. We don't care. We know for ourselves how to live Christmas and we don't have to tell President Conte on television for the benefit of a camera. Minister, no more television appearances of people like Undersecretary Zampa. I save Sileri because at least he adheres to the facts and, for this reason, I give him a minimum of congratulations (since he is a doctor, he tries to talk about what he knows). I repeat, spare us these TV appearances for the benefit of the camera. Minister, you yourself responded this morning for the benefit of the camera, repeating the contents of the first speech. This is not respectful, unlike what you say all the time, of listening to this House. You spoke in fact, as in the first speech, copying and pasting it, just because the live TV had started. So, Minister, you spoke about the compulsory vaccinations. Forgive me, however, how will the vaccine be mandatory? What are you gonna come up with? You said you were considering the compulsory vaccinations. How will you do that? Will you listen to Senator Pharaoh who says that to enter the restaurant we will have to present the card that we made the vaccine? I don't know what you're gonna come up with. Forgive me, Minister, but the only obligation is that which comes from the institutional consensus. In fact, if the Immune App and the serological investigation have failed, if you have not implemented everything that the Chambers had suggested to you, including this branch of Parliament with a motion approved unanimously, it is because the Italians do not trust this Government as you continue to promise lies and tell stories. [[Applause.]] Stop. Then let's move Christmas, move it by two hours. I make a proposal: let's extend by a couple of months, since the vaccination campaign starts in spring, let's combine it to April 25 and May 1 so we made everyone happy, fanfare party and everything goes... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] 12:58 p.m. (ZAFFINI follow). I think that all this deserves a closure point, a firm point. So, Minister, from here on out, forgive me, but the attitude is no longer enough, which I have repeatedly described to you that it is that of the Christian Democrat. Among other things, there is President Casini who is beating her on this and - let's say - there is no match. Do his job, exercise his role, but do it with clear decisions to the Italians, the institutions and, above all, the scientific community, because at this stage we, most likely, will find ourselves in the third wave. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u63	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Minister, we share your communications. Trying to think a little differently from the ones I have heard so far, I would like to try to propose to all of us and the citizens of our country a reflection. We are, in my opinion, at a decisive time and the choices we will make in the coming days, with the DPCM and with our behavior, will be decisive for today and especially for the future. Let us start with a fact; I honestly believe it can be recognised that, beyond the debate on zoning that we have had, it has produced positive results. The Rt index has been reduced and many regions have achieved an important result. Are we out of the tunnel? No and in this regard I hope (and I am sure the Government will) that the experience of summer is an indication and a warning to all of us. It often happens that when you take the decision to restrict one activity rather than another, you discuss and intervene to say that it must be open and that, vice versa, when this does not happen you ask to close. This has happened, ladies and gentlemen, to everyone all these months. I therefore believe, Minister, that the next DPCM the Government must certainly agree with the Regions, avoiding - I make an appeal - the debate and the oppositions that have been there in recent weeks. The Italians need clarity, they need to understand the purposes of the choices in a transparent way and I believe that the Government will be fully able to do so. Italians also need Regions, Municipalities, Central State and Government to adopt a unique attitude, I would like to say even from a cultural point of view, as several Presidents of the Regions (who are not governors, I repeat for institutional clarity) have also explained. It is not enough, that is, the norm, not enough the DPCM, not enough the decision of the President; we need a climate, an overall sharing that manages to ensure that this important period from the family point of view, of affections, of relationships, cannot replicate what happened in the summer that is behind us. This is very important, even more so than the specific rule on this or that intervention. We need a common responsibility, then we will discuss - I hope soon - the issue of relations between the State and the regions and, in this regard, I have a working hypothesis. Given that one of the issues of this affair stems from the fact that Parliament has never broken down the fundamental principles of Article 117 of the Constitution, pending the constitutional revision we are doing health reform and in that we are describing the fundamental principles, because the health system is national and the right of citizens to health is for the whole country. We'd take a step forward. Finally, I would like to say something about vaccines. We had also drafted a rewording which was not presented for technical reasons. First of all, we need transparency, also, as the Minister said, from the point of view of security that must be ensured to the citizens in a clear way. Secondly, the plan is fine, but I ask you whether it is not appropriate to give it a legislative force as a primary rule, so that it is clear to the whole country, to all those involved in its management, that the plan applies entirely, throughout the national territory, in an absolutely equal way for all citizens. What has been done is an important positive choice, indeed an important job that has been done at European level for vaccines. Minister, we must ensure maximum transparency and it is very important that the vaccine is free of charge and for all citizens. There is no business, let's say it very clearly. In this connection, I would like to conclude by stressing a point in our reworded motion for a resolution which we have not been able to present in time. It is essential that our Government should make a commitment, at European and global level, to ensure that anti-Covid vaccines are overcome by patents and property rights. It is a strategic choice that concerns the world and many countries that would otherwise risk, with very serious consequences, not being able to have the vaccine. On the basis of these principles we approve his communications and trust in a role and strength of the Government in building this common facility of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u66	COLLINA (PD). Minister, thank you for the statements you made to the Senate on the eve of one of the most important steps since the pandemic took place. Facing Christmas is an important step, because we do it with a greater load of awareness than nine months ago. We have better known the virus, we know how dangerous it is and we know how capable it is of transmitting itself through people in moments of sociality and assembly. We know the impact of the virus on our health system, we also know the impact of the virus on the social life of young people, families and the elderly and we know the repercussions on the economic system and the businesses of our country, especially those of public establishments and tourism. But we also know what the effectiveness of actions to combat the spread of the virus is, because we have experienced different intensity of measures, always with the aim of safeguarding health and then containing all the other negative effects on the community and the economy. To a first response to the pandemic, that is the generalized national lockdown implemented in spring, which did not eradicate the virus, but could not do so because of obvious differences of action between the European states, when the virus resumed broadcasting at the end of the summer we followed a graduated and differentiated response on the national territory, based on a monitoring system that is working. The coloring of the Regions is the synthetic way to describe both the state of the pandemic and the relative indications on the behaviors to be followed in order to reduce the contagions. Your report, Minister, acknowledges this effectiveness and the tendency leads us to believe that on Christmas Eve a large part of the regions will be in the yellow zone. Only if this were true, despite this prediction is realistic, would we prepare to implement actions that will increase in the Christmas period the constraints proper to the yellow areas, with very different impacts from Region to Region. We all know what the Christmas period means in terms of the handling of people and goods and we understand the major risks of situations that are out of control, but we also know that if it cannot be a "free all," in the same way it cannot be an iron curtain. This must move us with the intention of containing properly and giving greater order to the activities that at Christmas citizens and families expect to be able to do at least to some extent, because it will still be a different Christmas with sacrifices to be faced. Today we can set a line of rigor, but this can stand up especially if when we communicate it we strengthen citizens' belief that responsible behaviour is the basis for the fight against the pandemic that we are leading at all institutional levels. If we set a line of rigour that does not generate conviction and adherence on the part of citizens, we risk counterproductive effects. Precisely because of the load of awareness that I described earlier, apart from the outbreaks that were to occur, we must, however, focus on actions that allow for consistency throughout the national territory of measures relating to the opening of economic activities so that, for example, there are no areas where hotels can be opened and areas where they must remain closed. In the same way, we believe that it is necessary to consider - for a more careful evaluation - actions that allow families to reunite with elderly parents alone even between different regions and also in homes other than the residence. The theme of schools is decisive for the future of our country. We want schools open safely, but this means that they can only be reopened when the entire supply chain concerned is in safe condition: from the transport system to the organization of possible entrance shifts and the conduct of lessons. Minister Hope's communications put us in a wait that will reasonably not be disappointed with the availability of vaccines in the coming months. We share the Minister's objectives and strategy regarding the management of the distribution of vaccines to which we are preparing. These are the right premises for the construction of an operational plan that requires a deployment of human and organizational resources, which must rightly be managed centrally, in agreement with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. For example, on influenza vaccines there is no centralized management, but purchases are made Region by Region. So, we have to avoid those problems that have occurred. We understand that for the health system it is a challenge in the challenge: to manage the course of the pandemic while facing the vaccination campaign. The involvement of the Armed Forces through the address of Minister Guerini will be decisive in order to give timeliness and effectiveness to the operational plan of vaccination. The armed forces, once again, prove to be an irreplaceable infrastructure of the country integrated in the processes of management and overcoming emergencies. I would like to stress, at this point, the work done by Minister Hope at European level both to coordinate the containment actions of the pandemic - and the DPCM relating to the Christmas period will be an important step of verification - and to properly set up the European management of option, purchase and distribution of vaccines. Italy's initiative has helped align Europe on a higher level of consideration for national health systems. If that were not the case, we would not have reached the historic proposal to change the nature of the ESM funds, following the change in the way they are used, but on this I would like to make an assessment, and I shall conclude. Our national debate is all about what Europe needs to do. Instead, I believe that it is time to focus on what Italy has to do. Minister, for weeks we have been clear about the need for a strategic plan for the modernisation of Italian health that explains the vision that we want to implement so that the Italian health system is able to face new pandemic challenges, but with the ability to ensure therapeutic continuity and intervention for other pathologies. You have come to this House and you have listened to these speeches many times. We have put significant resources to address the emergency for recruitment, for the Covid hospital, but we have not defined a project that clarifies the investments that change our health care with different territorial services, such as telemedicine, with a redesign of roles on the territory, with new technologies for prevention and care. I think the time has come to present this project and so we will all understand what the 35 billion ESM resources are for in Italy. If the investment project for tomorrow's health is not produced, Minister, we can still discuss Europe, but the debate will not have built up. Of course, there is also the financial issue, because this year we have contracted EUR 100 billion in debt and we will have to repay more than 100 billion. Instead, as far as the EUR 35 billion of the ESM is concerned, we will have to return less than EUR 35 billion. The project that will clarify the size of investments in health, allowing us to decide which source of funding to use, is, however, the central point. The Democratic Party is working in this direction and the Senate PD Group will give a concrete sense of this will, by voting in favour of the majority's motion for a resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u69	FERRO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the report and the speeches we are discussing in general and, on the most important technical and health aspects, I would like to refer to the speeches made by my previous Senators Binetti and Moles. It is true that we are talking about communications on the vaccination plan and, in this regard, we have heard the option of 202 million doses, which should be sufficient for double vaccination, as the Minister said, and for the provision of some stocks. As far as vaccines are concerned, Minister, we believe that serious, precise and timely communication to the country is essential so that we do not split up. If the Italian, European and world scientific authorities certify that everything is in place - it will be up to you, Minister, to guarantee us from this point of view - it is essential that communication to the country is effective and precise and that we do not divide on this issue. Clearly, we need ample freedom, but we need to push for effective vaccination. I do not know whether the advice of my fellow Senator Errani is viable, to make provision for a legislative act on this issue, but it seems to me that sharing this aspect is essential. We come to other points: I understand that you are the Minister of Health, but I note that no reference has been made to the following. We are talking about a pandemic system, which is leading to a very obvious social and economic crisis and therefore these two realities are pendant, they are united. We will have to wait for yet another evening press conference, in which President Conte will explain the various DPCMs, but we must be careful, because, from the first steps we have seen in these days, the theme of the ESM arises. We don't mess it up, putting everything together, even what doesn't have to be put together. The Health MES is an opportunity for our country: it is 37 billion euros, which we need immediately and the no by Movimento 5 Stars costs us 200 or 300 million euros per year of interest that we have to pay, refunding therefore 3 billion euros in ten years: let's think about what we could do with this money. My colleague Senator Errani - this is the second time he says so - wants to review the health system: I see a creeping stateism, which we do not like [[Applause]] Mr Minister, say no: we must not go back to paths, which have allowed health care - objectively not all over the country, but in much of the same - to be effective, efficient, avant-garde, with attractions also at European level, given their value. Let's not go back on these things, because we've already seen what it's like to centralize. There is therefore no reference to the post, the economy, businesses, the world of work, culture and tourism. We are not competing here to quote the various codes, but we are laying down clear and precise rules. We have already been announced yet another decree-law and someone has proposed to call it a Christmas decree, but I would call it a restart decree, because if the country does not leave again, Minister, you can reopen what you want, but we stand still. We absolutely need to give certainties, indications and for this, President Casini, we need politics, the one with capital P, which must have vision, planning, ideas that are not found on social media but require study, deepening, history and tradition that I do not know. We believe, Minister, that more precise ideas are needed than those you have explained to us so far. It seems to us that there is a very, very weak thought from the point of view of solving the current problems. There's only one contingent vision that doesn't allow us to understand how we're gonna get our country out of these buckets. You are also messy, but our economy is strong and includes excellence in many different sectors. We need a government that puts the business at the centre, that puts the work at the centre with clear and precise rules. [[Applause]] And we need you to do that even during the pandemic because we are sure that the pandemic will be over and if after our country is destroyed, we will have only wasted time. We believe, Minister, that there is a clear exaggeration in the restrictions on economic activity. Instead of flying high, the majority cling to old and worn out identity flags to give satisfaction to their fans, their fans. Thus the 5 Stars cling to the rejection of the Health MES, LEU and part of the PD propose an asset, but the ABC teaches that in a moment of economic crisis taxing further would mean giving the coup de grace to Italy. [[Applause]] From a media point of view, a little noise has succeeded in doing so. It's an image damage you do to our country. Keep talking when the only thing the government should do is design projects to make the best use, for example, of the money from the recovery fund. There is a constant chatter that stuns the Italians and disorients them. Minister, with regard to the funds provided for the recovery plan, National Recovery and Resilience Plan, you are so divided that instead of identifying a competent single minister, you have made a triple with less than three hundred and fifty consultants with all the work of the underlying Ministries who have pulled out of the archives old stale and outdated projects. [[Applause]] You have to simplify, and you're complicated. Through the Next generation EU, Italy has a total of 209 billion. We need to define our national recovery and resilience plan by April 2021. The resources will then be spent by 2026. If we do not proceed with lines of simplification and we do not degenerate, we are absolutely certain that we will not be able to have all the administrative acts necessary to translate these projects into reality. We must overcome the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic. The transformation of our country into a modern sense must be accelerated. Social groups are complaining, Minister. We believe that we must be careful: the country must be listened to and must be helped not with the proclamations, but concretely and really. The money's not coming or everyone's here. At midnight on Sunday you will know whether you have to pay taxes or not. Minister, we are at a time when the country demands an effort with a presupposition that this majority lacks: the vision of a new and modern country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u72	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us try to build and offer ideas for moving forward together. We have shown this as a centre-right, without anyone having to teach us: we have voted together on the budgetary deviation, because at last, instead of giving gifts to friends, scooters and wheelchairs, we have decided to help VAT matches, self-employed workers, professionals and craftsmen. And the center-right was there. Mr. Minister, let's see what didn't work out to try to do better in the next few weeks. First of all, I make a premise about nurses and health workers: stop calling them heroes, if you don't give them a single euro on their salary. [[Applause.]] It's a joke. If, God forbid, you will arrive at the general strike called by the unions for the public employment, because the government does not listen and puts contractual increases for nurses and health workers only on paper, but then they will not arrive, it is a mockery for those who are fighting today in hospitals against the virus and for all the people of self-employment and private employees, who do not deserve this treatment. Mr Minister, ask your colleague, Mr Conte, to listen and to meet. Vaccines. In Britain they began to vaccinate next week; they told us that his departure from Europe would bring that country to ruin, but he leaves two months before us to vaccinate his citizens. [[Applause.]] Either they have something wrong in London or something doesn't work with us. However, we have read that the European Medicines Agency has convened an emergency meeting to discuss vaccines. Look out, today is December 2nd and the emergency meeting in Brussels has been convened for the coming 29th: there is a concept of urgency that is different on planet Earth than on planet Europe. So, Minister, let's agree. In Turkey they leave next week - this is the best - with the vaccine coming from China. We will have to bring a moment of clarity to this House sooner or later, because it is not possible that the country that has infected the rest of the world then does business by curing the world that has infected. [[Applause.]] Someone will have to explain what was not done in Beijing. Either the Pfizer vaccine works in London and not Rome, or you don't understand why they start there before they start at our house. All this is in the hands of "Superman," Commissioner Arcuri. In the months of the pandemic - I say this for those who follow us from home, because who is in this Palace knows - Commissioner Arcuri was entrusted: the management of masks and oxygen (the worst); the management of the reopening of schools (the worst); the management of the app Immuni (failure). Now, adjuvandum, he has been entrusted with the solution of the problem of the Ilva of Taranto, and my thoughts and my embrace go to the workers and citizens of that city [[Applause]] Because if they're in this gentleman's hands, they have little to be quiet about. Since he's been successful on everything, we're also giving him vaccine management. I understand - Minister Hope - whether it is true - that trade unions in transport have been willing for weeks to be around a government table to organize the transport and distribution of vaccines, if and when they arrive, but that no one has contacted them. If we are a Republic founded on Commissioner Arcuri and the task forces, change the Constitution; otherwise, listen to the country [[Applause),]] because, given how it happened in the past, we risk failing in the future. [[Applause.]] I hope, Minister, that next time we will also be able to talk to you about the problems of the millions of non-Covid patients: there are frightening waiting lists, visits and operations postponed; there is the world of cancer patients, who are in line like the others and do not deserve it, while fighting cancer, and some unfortunate fellow Senator considers it Italians of the B series. [[Applause.]] We are waiting for an answer - and we, as League and as center-right, have made proposals - on home therapies. I thank those doctors who, his sponte, are saving thousands of lives, as well as those pharmacists who, his sponte, are making available their spaces to perform tampons outside the pharmacies, which is forbidden and this is surreal. Among the 6,000 DPCMs that Count has given us in these months, you have not found a way to cancel a Royal Decree of 1934 that forbids pharmacists to make punctures and swabs in their homes. In the next DCCM, at least overcome this legacy of the past and allow pharmacists to do their job. [[Applause]] Minister, and let us come to the incredible thing, before making a request: no one thinks of New Year's Eve with the 200 people's wakes, with the cap, the trumpet and the train on the notes of "Maracaibo" of fantozziana memory. Nobody thinks of the urgency of visiting the 16 year old lover or boyfriend on the other side of Italy; however, as you have decided - this we read in the newspapers - to close the Italians at home and within the borders of their City at Christmas, St. Stephen and New Year's Eve, at least remember not who would want to go for a ride on the snowboard table in the Italian mountains, but of the millions of separated or divorced parents living in Italy and their children [[Applause]] , of children who have the right, at least at Christmas, to be with their mother and dad; and, if their dad is in Milan and their mom in Palermo, who will block that dad or that mom? [[Applause]] There is a world of separated or divorced parents and grandparents who do not see their grandchildren: we are not talking about some spoiled who wants to go and have fun. [[Applause]] This is Italy, with millions of elderly people alone, with disabled people without home care. Minister, I would like to ask you a courtesy in view of the International Day of People with Disabilities tomorrow. In economic maneuver - and I invite you to say something - the Government to accept a European indication, and I come back to talk about Europe, will make it subject to VAT, ruining it, 300,000 Italian voluntary associations, forcing them to have a VAT number. It seems to me the worst way of celebrating the International Day of People with Disabilities, bringing further bureaucracy to the headquarters of that third sector and that volunteering that in recent months have performed miracles in Italy and have made our country great. [[Applause]] Do not complicate life in the third sector and volunteering. I shall conclude, Minister, by referring to the proposals on public transport, for example. The problem of the school was not born in the classroom, but, as everyone had predicted, outside the classroom. What is the point of closing the Romans in Rome, Palermo and the Aostans in Aosta on Christmas Day and Santo Stefano and then taking thousands of people on the same subway, on the same buses and on the same trains? [[Applause]] Maybe the contagion in the mountains is more dangerous than the one in the city? I remember, among other things, that winter tourism means hundreds of thousands of jobs and 20 billion euros of turnover, so don't make fun of hoteliers. The surreal thing, Minister - and this should have been the case in recent months - is that on 2 December there is no programming. It is not possible that anyone who has a company, a shop, a professional studio or a craft activity on December 2 does not yet know what will happen to him in 20 days. It is not possible, Minister, to sail on sight from week to week, with mayors who do not know, governors who do not know, precarious, seasonal, workers and traders who do not know. Once you have made the decision, carry it forward and don't do like this summer back and forth, open and close, several times. We are there, but if - I repeat - you listen to us. I tell you already today that we cannot entrust the future of Italians in the hands of only one gentleman, Mr. Arcuri, who has failed on the past and of which, moreover, today we read on the first page of "The Truth". I tell my colleagues that they rightly claim "honesty, honesty, honesty!" that in Rome there is an investigation on the masks ordered by Arcuri in China, with commissions of 72 million euros. I don't leave the health of my children in my hands, I emphasize. [[Applause.]] Maybe there's something we don't know, otherwise you can't talk about merit and reward those who don't recognize it. Minister Hope, we will listen to what the scientific community will suggest. I hope that in these few minutes he has grasped the fact that we want to build, taking advantage of the mistakes made in the past. I repeat my thought: put a hand on your heart, thinking about moms and dads, students and workers who are a thousand kilometers away from home and who at least on Christmas and St. Stephen's day would not want to have parties or parties, but simply embrace mom, dad, wife and husband. I conclude by dedicating the intervention to 18 fishermen who I fear will spend Christmas away from home, kidnapped in Libya, because the government for them did not move a finger. [[Applause.]] You have spent millions to bring back to Italy people who went around the world to mind their own business and you are not spending a penny to bring back to Italy workers of our country. [[Comments.]] Merry Christmas, everyone! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u75	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the punctuality of your information. We are all unfortunately aware of or should be aware of the moment that we are still living today. Senator Centinario should be, too, but he doesn't seem it: he should know that his leader presented himself in the Senate without a mask. [[Applause]] ; you should know that this summer they organized a meeting that turned into an outbreak; you should know that this summer the Regions led by the League did not do what they should and we arrived in September with delays not due to those who had allocated the resources months before, as this Government did. It is shameful to hear these words in this House. The Commission has always given precise rules, based on responsibility and health protection and, if some people have not respected them, it is also thanks to the poor example given by those who sit on my left in this House. [[Applause.]] True, Christmas is at the door, as surely it is that it will be different from everyone else, because this year the most beautiful gift we can make is to protect ourselves. Not understanding this means going against scientific data and not realizing the situation that is going on throughout Europe. You protect yourself by avoiding dinners, hugs, alarms and, in some way, the Christmas spirit, which is to be together. Unfortunately, being together this year is exactly what we cannot afford. Thanks to the measures put in place by the government and by you, we have managed to contain so far this second wave, which however has been violent, has once again put in trouble our health system and has seen many people lose their lives. I would like to remind you then that unfortunately - as the Court of Auditors reminded us only a few days ago - many regions have found themselves unprepared, again, nor have they increased the beds in intensive care, despite the government had allocated the funds, nor have they activated - as they should have - the special units of care continuity (USCA) nor hired the family nurses. I might recall that, because of the cuts made in previous years, our territorial medicine has been weakened to such an extent that it cannot support the needs of the emergency. I could remember that, since the 5 Star Movement is in the government of the country, we have reversed this trend, reaching to allocate beyond 12 billion euros, the last 4 of which with the budget law of this year. Moreover, I could recall that those who had not planned the needs of specialists before us have made sure that they are now lacking and that the calls should be deserted, another aspect on which the Movimento 5 Stars intervened, both by increasing the specialized training contracts, and by creating a structure and programs precisely according to the real needs of the national health system. I might recall that having given public money to individuals, as did Lombardy, it has proved to be a fatal mistake and that the reform of Title V of the Constitution has sadly failed. [[Applause]] On the other hand, for ten years the Movimento 5 Stars has been calling for health care to return to the state and we have also filed a bill in the Senate for this. I could remember that the regions that this summer have allowed the reopening of the discos - some with still dark ways, as in Sardinia - have committed a lightness, not properly controlling what then happened to you. Today we are here and, instead of talking about bathing establishments and discos, we are talking about skiing facilities. It would indeed be an unforgivable mistake to lower our guard in the middle of winter, with what would result. It would be an unforgivable mistake not to realize that health protection must be the only priority at this time. [[Applause]] The Government has approved a fourth ristori decree, which serves precisely to support firms in difficulty and workers. To think of sacrificing human lives to economic interests, however, is a choice that, in all conscience, no one can make. In January the first vaccines will begin to arrive and we will begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Our lives, within a few months, will begin to return to normal. Incidentally, we should include in the protocols for 40 years the exemption for those who have already contracted the Covid-19 and for those who are vaccinated, perhaps providing support for a serological test that attests to an adequate antibody titre. But let's go back to us. Let's remember the price that Lombardy paid for someone's demand: Milan must start again! Let us not forget the sacrifice of doctors, nurses and health workers. [[Comments.]] Over 200 have lost their lives for putting the care of others before their own. And we, with all due respect for tour operators, are convinced that skiing cannot be put in front of the health care professionals' lives. [[Applause]] The measures we take today are what we need. Let us not tell businessmen and workers in distress that we could do otherwise. It's unworthy speculation. There will be refreshments and aid (this government has allocated over 100 billion since the start of the emergency) and after Christmas we will return to take stock of the current situation. Then we come to the real element of hope that the Minister has spoken about today: vaccines. There were some concerns about their safety and for some they arrived too quickly. The first thing to say, then, is that our National Health Service would never make available an unconfident drug. Then there is the node of the distribution. Minister, we know that there are several vaccines in different ways. What we are averting is that this plan is applied in different ways in the different Italian regions, as we have unfortunately seen so far for all the measures that this Government had responsibly put in place. Beyond Title V, which must be completely revised, it is therefore clear that supervision is now necessary. We must not allow the citizens of the North to be guaranteed one thing, the people of the Centre another and the people of the South another. We are faced with a huge challenge with this vaccination plan: preservation, distribution and administration. To those who first and later will be established on the basis of medical and scientific criteria, but it must be written on stone that thanks to the commitment of this Government every Italian citizen will have the same opportunities and the same timing and above all that everyone will be able to access the vaccine in a free way. Having said that, I want to end my speech by appealing to the Italians: we have been overwhelmed by a pandemic, we have reacted and we are continuing to react. The Covid-19 should not be underestimated and neither should its risks, we have seen it. This government has always acted consistently and will do so also for the coming festivities, continuing to support workers and businesses with all the necessary funds you know: the last decree has just been approved and we speak of over 18 billion). We will be back together and embrace each other, but doing so today would mean risking the health of our parents and grandparents: it is a risk that is not worth it, in spite of what you have heard from some self-righteous irresponsible person who has squeezed the eyes of the negationists over the months, except then come and complain in this House about the increase in infection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u78	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr. Minister, let me start with your words: do not lose your memory; I will help you. I confess to you that I was curious to see how he would look after the inquiries made by Mr Report, his own, that of a Minister who wrote a book in July whose title, "Because we will heal," throws her into ridicule. Congratulations: he is the only author who can get a book printed so that it is not sold. By the way, who paid for this trick? The fellows of Feltrinelli? The literary ghost genre must like you very much, however, because you are prostrating to the pharmaceutical giants with secret contracts and all unbalanced in favor of Big Pharma (they are writing a little 'all, even "The Express" this week; the "Huffington Post" headlines: Secret contracts for vaccines. Europe surrenders to Big Pharma. Does Europe do that? Well, it's not random. You have that institution that responds to the multinationals. We don't care how many doses you are buying: we want to see contracts from the first to the last line, without restrictions, because we were elected by Italian citizens, not by the managers of multinationals. Try to make the vaccine compulsory and issue licenses without this Parliament seeing the purchase contracts from the first to the last line: try it, and we promise you a resistance that you don't even dream of. You don't have to lose your memory, you said, but to what do you refer? To the information you're sending out with a lying will? This Assembly must know the document drawn up by some independent researchers of the WHO that your fellow Ranieri Guerra has taken away, as clearly proved by the transmission "Report". Because of its Ministry, Italy did not have a pandemic plan, unless you want to make fun of us with the various copy-paste: that's why you brigaded with Ranieri Guerra, to prevent the citizens from knowing about your shortcomings. You have not protected the Italians, in fact, you have violated the constitutional right to health and then, in order to protect yourself, you have removed other constitutional freedoms and rights, from freedom of movement to the right to work and to do business. Not only that: you are also affecting the right to independent justice, because with your silence you are preventing the prosecutor of Bergamo, who investigates by accident, from questioning the uncomfortable WHO staff. You and Di Maio received an embarrassing letter from WHO, opposing diplomatic immunity for your staff (all except the usual Ranieri Guerra). Bonafede has nothing to say about such arrogance? Ranieri Guerra has all these covers because he's covering himself, you and the government about the absence of the pandemic plan. You traded the lives of 50,000 Italian citizens in exchange for silence on a dossier that tells the truth about your faults. You traded the lives of 50,000 Italians in exchange for a WHO video march to which you have just given a 10 million obulum. Without truth and without transparency there is only your propaganda. No more secrets, no more lies: we want the true truth about Covid's dead. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u79	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u82	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, having given the Minister Hope an opinion in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 only under (a), until the word 'Covid-19' and in (c), I would ask that the vote be taken separately, so as to vote first on the part on which the Minister gave a favourable opinion and then on which I believe I understand that the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u83	If there were no comments on this point, I would put that proposal to the vote. I see Senator Calderoli has no intention of intervening. You have the right to do so. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, excuse me, but on the basis of the contradictive nemine principle, if we all agree, there is no need for a vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, sure. It wasn't very clear if there was anyone who wanted to intervene. Since there is no opposition, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of letters (a), until the word 'Covid-19', and (c) in motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remaining part of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u86	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I should like to point out that in the previous vote I did not press the button by mistake and therefore it appears that I did not vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u87	Senator Urso, your report will remain in the record. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Pirro, Boldrini, Errani and Sbrollini. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the Minister of Health. Before suspending work, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 3 p.m., we shall proceed to the speeches on items not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u90	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Saturday, November 28, 2020 is another date that is added to the tragic calendars of the already troubled life of Sardinia and, in particular, of the Municipality of Bitti, after the other tragic day of November 18, 2013, when a situation similar to that occurred last Saturday, which at the time struck also the Gallura, which gave the highest tribute of human lives, and Bitti, where also died a breeder, whose body to date, after seven years, has never been found. You have all seen the dramatic images of Bitti, where the water and the mud have passed the first floor of the houses and three people have died overwhelmed by the fury of water and debris. In this regard, I want to address a thought of mourning and closeness to the families of the deceased, to all the citizenship of the City of Bitti and, in particular, to the mayor Giuseppe Ciccolini: it is a young mayor, excellent administrator, to whom we all owe a heartfelt thanks, because, mindful of what happened and suffered in 2013, he had promptly issued measures in this circumstance to secure the citizenship, allowing to limit the number of deaths only to three, who have unfortunately died for an imprudence on their part and only for this reason; he is a young mayor who really knew how to deal with the emergency that came to be created in this circumstance. Solidarity due and felt certainly also to all the municipalities hit by the storm of 28 November, which did not have to pay a tribute of human lives, but certainly had enormous damage to their economy, with the destruction of lands and farms destroyed. I refer in particular to the three municipalities that have had the most serious damage (Galtellì, Onifai and Orosei). Now, however, we must prevent the tragic event from becoming forgotten, as has happened all too often. The words of mourning need to be followed by concrete actions. I can't help but remember that today, seven years after the event of 18 November 2013, the bridge of Monte Pinu, which connects Olbia with Tempio Pausania, is still destroyed. That road, after seven years, is still interrupted. It's amazing, you can't understand how you can get to situations like this. I cannot fail to recall that the town of Dorgali and Cala Gonone, consisting of two of the most important tourist sites, which make up a single centre with sea and mountain, which for six years have remained almost isolated, since there had to be a huge tour on winding roads to reach them, because the famous bridge of Oloè, which has been mentioned several times in this House, had been destroyed. I remember a policeman who had lost his life on that tragic day, just because of security issues, in order to try to contain the damage to human lives. That bridge was only fixed last year, after six years. It is easy to participate in mourning demonstrations and funerals and make the usual presences. However, more action must be taken and concrete aid given. I must remind you that at the beginning of the parliamentary term the Secure Italy Crisis Unit had been established; if there had been, probably this damage would have been avoided. Despite this, the mayor of which I have already spoken had been busy and had managed to start a plan for the containment of the hydrogeological failure; unfortunately, however, a part of the money - a third, equal to 21 million - arrived only last year, and he could not bring to completion the work, which is going on precisely because of his initiative and his desire to make the interest of the community. We therefore give clear and immediate signs that allow a glimmer of hope to those who have been hit so hard many times now. In conclusion, Mr President, I wonder, for example, why the Government does not consider giving a strong and clear signal to a proud and proud population like Bitti's (who does not know her can not understand what I am talking about), who does not want the help given so much to give it, but something concrete. Let us give a sign, for example, by resetting the tax debt that the population of Bitti has in this period; it is only a municipality, so it is not as expensive as you might think, but I am sure that it would be warmly welcomed by a proud population like that and would really be a clear signal. Otherwise, be serene that that population, as it has always done, with the pride that distinguishes the Sardinians and with the even stronger one that distinguishes the population of Bitti, will certainly be able to rise again, but will not look at the institutions with the same confidence that it had until yesterday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u91	The Presidency, also on behalf of the House, is in favour of expressing closeness and condolence to the families affected by the very serious mourning and solidarity with citizenship and all Sardinian citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u94	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, devastated roads, destroyed activities, families left without a house and broken lives: Sardinia has been on its knees again, in front of a bomb of water and mud that, with a force never seen in recent decades, has left so much devastation. The order of geologists has emphasized that these clouds have evidenced, once again, the fragility of the urban centers. Despite the succession of warnings, there is a lack of effective territorial defence policy. [[Applause]] , focused on the prevention of failure, feasible with interventions aimed at the care and discipline of the soil. The rural centres affected are Bitti, Lula, Dorgali, Oliena, Nuoro, the valley of Cedrino, as well as Torpè, Siniscola and Posada devastated by the waters. The agricultural sector accounts for the damage caused by the first monitoring carried out in many parts of Sardinia. The water flooded the fields from Baronia to Bas Oristano, from Medio Campidano to Sarrabus; in Ogliastra many rural roads and destroyed bridges have isolated the folds; many farms have remained without electricity and without water, many hectares of washed grasses and stocks of fodder and wet feed. In the area of Villacidro, in San Gavino, Guspini and Gonnosfanadiga there have been flooded fields and flooding of sheds and barns because of the overflow of rivers. It is essential and of the highest priority to act with a plan of safety and prevention in the territory. I agree with Mr Cucca, considering that it has been a short-sighted and dangerous move to cancel the mission unit "Safe Italy" without replacing it or applying the necessary modifications to make it more effective. It is essential to safeguard the areas at risk of hydrogeology and to carry out concrete missions for the fight against failure. A global vision is needed to protect and safeguard the territory and its inhabitants, identifying appropriate resources. We are talking about annus horribilis for the economy of my land: the Covid in the first place has brought to its knees the whole of Italy, consequently the tourism sector has suffered enormous difficulties and now the agricultural one, which remained a strong hope to drive the Sardinian economy. The procedure to request the state of calamity to the Government has been started; President Solinas has allocated 40 million euros for an immediate refreshment in favor of the communities most affected by the fury of the cyclone [[Applause.]] Confagricoltura requires the use of the recovery fund to support the agricultural sector. I personally thank the law enforcement, civil protection, the hundreds of volunteers who took part immediately on the premises. It is with great sorrow that I express my solidarity with all my fellow countrymen, who are the victims of this tragedy. However, as our Nobel Prize winner Grazia Deledda wrote, in the novel "Canne al vento" (Canne al vento) the remedy is in us and I am sure that the Sardinian people will prove to be resilient and will rise up with the strength and determination of all time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u97	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, Senator Cucca and Senator Lunesu, have admirably described the devastation that has occurred as a result of last Saturday's bad weather, 28 November, so today we are on the second day of mourning. Like Forza Italia I want to represent the participation in the mourning of family members. As a politician, I wish to endorse what my colleagues Mr Lunesu and Mr Cucca have proposed regarding the state of natural disaster and an intervention that is decisive in relation to the damage already caused about seven years ago in the same area. I am sure that President Solinas, in agreement with the Government, will find the best solutions so that we do not have to go back again to mourning and to repair the damage that the environment is suffering more and more in devastated areas such as Bitti. To the mayor of Bitti, Ciccolini, I express all my solidarity and appreciation for the work he has produced. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u100	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the territory of Nuorese mourns three deaths, the destruction of homes, machinery and companies because of the terrible storm that fell last week in the country of Bitti, in the province of Nuoro. The river that crosses the village, collected in a tombed channel now old, due to a very violent water bomb came out of its bed and crossed the main street of the country with an uncontrollable fury, four times greater than that seen with the cyclone Cleopatra in 2013. To the bittesi, a mild and simple people of great workers, all my grief goes at this dramatic moment. With great dignity themselves, helped these days by the Forces of Order, the Army, the Fire Department, the Forestry Corps and the regional agency Forestas, to whom all my thanks go, are working to free the country from the huge piles of debris and mud. I have not felt on their part any anger or any quest for responsibility, no pointing the finger, but as a citizen, even before as a representative of the institutions, I feel a responsibility on them, because once again we trusted obsolete infrastructure. Little has been done since 2013 in order to secure the country from the point of view of the containment and therefore of the reforestation and also the necessary important hydraulic works have been missing. Climate change is accelerating these events, which are becoming more and more frequent, but obviously the regional hydrogeological plan, which identifies the areas with the highest risk, has not found adequate application in these years. There are often projects and funding, but then time passes, without anything actually happening. Excessive bureaucracy blocks everything, but also the notorious consensus of politics. Local administrators must learn to say no; it is no longer conceivable to build on the bed of rivers. It is necessary to prevent citizens from using the territory distorted and endangering their own lives. President, I conclude by hoping that the Government will be close to my community, Bitti's, with all the necessary and financial support for the reconstruction of the country and the security of the territory. I join my Sardinian colleagues in calling for the community to be helped with a zero-taxation and, of course, the state of natural disaster. Thank you very much to the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u103	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I asked in time, through the Group, for this speech to be made at the beginning of the sitting, as is the practice. This time we were told that it had to be done at the end of the sitting and now we are doing it at the end of the sitting when our fellow Members left this House. Someone asked me: Then why do you do it? I do this because my speech concerns those who have been forgotten. I do so by reading what an authoritative journalist has written about the desert - moral, even political - of this House. He did so two days ago on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) Pierluigi Battista, writing of the 18 fishermen forgotten in Libya, and the fact that he must speak about it in a deserted Chamber, obviously in the absence of the government, is emblematic of what he has already written in this article that I read to you: For ninety days, not two days, but ninety days, (for the truth more than ninety years have passed) the eighteen fishermen of Mazara del Vallo have been seized with vague and incomprehensible accusations in Libya by the militias of Haftar. In short, they are hostages, captured and used as trading goods with Italy. But Italy has no intention not to exchange anything, but to consider the very idea of a negotiation to free eighteen of our fellow countrymen in the clutches of armed gangs to which it is difficult to recognize state dignity. It is the fault of a government clearly inadequate like the Italian one, certainly, without a leadership, a minimum of international weight, a rag of profile that can inspire respect. But it is also the fault of a silent, indifferent public opinion, silenced by a mixture of fatalism, carelessness and addiction (I say, precisely, in a deserted, careless, addicted Chamber). And you really have to ask yourself why. So that the fate of eighteen fishermen does not move us to a minimum of solidarity. We look at the news, we don't get touched, we take it as a boring task. We are full of indignation, of vibrant protests about the scandalous detention in Egypt of the student Patrick Zaki, known at the University of Bologna, and we do well to protest, to sign appeals, to draw attention to this abuse. But because nothing, absolute nothing, unlimited mutilation of the eighteen fishermen. We welcome the fact that some co-operatives, or journalists, are freed after lengthy and costly negotiations, but the fate of eighteen fishermen seized does not matter to us, as if the humanity of eighteen strangers did not concern us (...) or if it were less "trendy" to deal with it, to protest, to ask for their liberation. Then the journalist continues: And this time not even the right-wing opposition, once combative and indignant for the two marous prisoners in India, seems to be moving. As if they were Italians of a minor Italy, belonging to a category too humble (fishermen) to nourish our unconstant moral conscience, frighteningly hypocritical, of a hypocrisy so engraved in our eccentric way of seeing the things that we may not even be able to realize. Because fishermen don't matter, they don't say anything, they don't call for mobilization. And they're standing there, being seized for ninety days, in the silence of the world. And I would add, in the silence of a deserted Chamber like this Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u106	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I can only repeat (not on the subject) what was initially said by the previous speaker, because speaking at the end of the sitting in a virtually deserted Chamber - I thank the few remaining Members - is also difficult; it seems almost outrageous for those who have to stay here and listen, so I will try to be absolutely brief. At the same time, however, brevity contrasts with what I really want to stress, namely that 50 years ago and one more day the Parliament passed Law No 898 of 1970 establishing divorce, namely the Fortuna-Baslini law. I also act as Senator of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, being Fortuna a Friulian, or rather a Lombard who at a very early age moved to Udine: his father was chancellor of the court of Udine, then he became a criminal lawyer, enrolled in the then Communist Party. In 1956, as city councilman of Udine, he left the Communist Party in protest, passed to the socialists and became a member of parliament. One of his first important acts was to present a bill on the institution of divorce, in the wake of what the radicals were asking in the country: I remember that Lid, the Italian League for the institution of divorce, had been wanted by Pannella and Mellini. The radicals then had no parliamentarians and therefore turned to the liberals, the secular forces and the Socialist Party, which had a long tradition in this regard. Just at the beginning of the twentieth century a series of proposals on divorce was made, which has an ancient tradition, so much so that the Napoleonic Code already predicted it and it was at the time of Murat that the possibility of divorce was established and predicted. The singular fact is that not only was there a very strong political debate, with the first referendum repealing, in 1974, a referendum absolutely participated, in which they won the no and thus won the address given by Law No 898 of 1970; those years, in particular 1978, in fact also saw "consects" not of little importance. I am thinking of Law No. 194 of 1978, on voluntary termination of pregnancy, I am thinking of Law No. 392 of 1978, the Law on Fair Canon, I am thinking of the law establishing the National Health Service, No. 833 of 1978. Those were years when in Italy and in Europe there was terrorism and, despite everything, Parliament, despite the deep ideological divisions that distinguished it between the various forces, managed to produce these laws. So I remember those years and the determination of many people, including those who, for ideological reasons, opposed this front: I think of the Christian democracy of Fanfani and of a Christian front, which at that time even uncomfortable Hegel, who was for the indissolubility of the matrimonial bond, which has an ethical foundation, which cannot be questioned, but forgetting that in his philosophy of law the German author himself, great teacher, had meaning that the so-called feelings are changing and weak and therefore, consequently, the theme of the bond and its indissolubility could not be removed from what distinguishes the human being and therefore also from the changeableness of his feelings. That was a season that opened up to the reform of family law in 1975, with equality between men and women. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I must invite you to conclude, Senator Dal Mas. BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). I'm done, Mr. President. Only in 1981 in our country were the provisions on the crime of honor abolished, therefore with schizophrenic legislation, which goes on and then recovers things. I therefore believe that Parliament should have, again this morning, recalled the aforementioned law, which in a sense changed and anticipated the way of life of Italians and also gave people who were then separated and did not have the opportunity to break the bond and build another family the opportunity to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u107	Thank you, Senator Dal Mas. In fact it was appropriate to remember this important passage in the history of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u110	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the very long journey of hope that led to Naples, from Venezuela, a six-year-old who, accompanied by his parents, entrusted himself to the Neapolitan medical specialists with a deep hope in the heart and a great desire to live. His physicist, slender, gracious and exhausted by the disease now seemed to be overwhelmed by the severe form of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia that had affected him, aggravated by the concomitant presence of the hepatitis C virus, contracted the latter during the therapies and transfusions practiced in his original country. The hematologists at the Santobono Paubipon hospital performed a stem cell transplant of the bone marrow, obtaining a good therapeutic response from the baby and a remission of his haematological disease. The work, coordinated with the center of pathology of the University Federico II of Naples has allowed to overcome also the bureaucratic barriers that prohibited, until recently, the use under the twelve years of age of the new antiviral drugs to defeat hepatitis C. After about three months of treatment according to international therapeutic protocols, the marrow of the baby is healed or, as it is said in medical term, is clean and at the same time the hepatitis C virus is negativeized. Soon the baby will be able to return to Venezuela. In such a particular historical moment this episode represents a positive message for all of us and shows once again that the skills and professionalism of our doctors and our healthcare professionals are always united to humanity, sensitivity and availability also in welcoming children from faraway countries, with a request for help and a stretched hand that goes beyond the territorial borders. It is nice to think that in my Campania region, so devastated by the pandemic, a message of hope can be born and spread in the future, in a spirit of solidarity and closeness between people from different countries and continents. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u113	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I call on Parliament to urge the Government to take action on the story of Iranian-Swedish scientist Ahmad Jalali, imprisoned by the Iranian Government in 2016. He was invited to return to his nation of birth for a conference and was arrested on the charge of espionage and sentenced to death in 2017. As we learn in these days from Iran human rights, he could be executed today or in the next few days. Ahmad is a doctor who deals with disaster medicine, is a Swedish citizen and European citizen, as well as Iranian, and has carried out his research in Sweden and Belgium, but also for a long time in Italy at the University of Eastern Piedmont of Novara and, despite having proclaimed his innocence with respect to the accusations of espionage, today he really risks his life because of the escalation of geopolitical tensions much greater than him. It is also obvious that his story and the accusation that is being made cannot help but remind us of the tragedy and sad story of Giulio Regeni, for whom we could not do anything because we knew too late. For Ahmad, however, we know where he is and we know that he is alive today. As citizens of Europe, an area of freedom and democracy of reference for the whole world, we cannot allow a man, a father and a scholar to be executed without the possibility of a fair trial, on the basis of accusations that he has always denied. I therefore ask Parliament to appeal to the Government, in particular to the President of the Count Council and to the Foreign Minister Di Maio, to consider any initiative aimed at suspending our country's participation in agreements that facilitate the academic exchange between Italy and Iran, taking action, together with the highest European authorities, to obtain the suspension of any judicial procedure that could lead to the death of Ahmad Jalali and restore the guarantee that his detention respects international law. The death sentence of a researcher, of those who cultivate nothing but knowledge, I believe must be lived by the international community as an attack brought to the heart of our model of coexistence, like an assault on the diplomatic corps or a soldier in the service of peacekeeping.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u114	Senator Cattaneo, the Presidency shares the attention to this truly dramatic situation which requires urgent intervention. As agreed and as announced, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, which was convened at 3 p.m. until 4 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2.27 p.m. and resumed at 4.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u115	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 18 December. The Assembly will meet on Wednesday 9 December at 4 p.m. for communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council on 10 and 11 December 2020. In the following week, with sessions from Monday 14 December, at 16.30, until Friday 18, if necessary, will be discussed the decree-restoration law and the decree-immigration law, the latter currently being examined in the Chamber of Deputies. The calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the Senate's accounts and internal balance sheets. In relation to the limiting determinations regarding the planning of the work of the Commissions in the current epidemiological emergency phase, the Leaders agreed to authorise the Justice Commission to continue the examination, in the deliberating session, of the draft law concerning the extension of the bicameral commission of inquiry on the events occurred in the community "Il Forteto" and, in the referent, the examination of the bill concerning the disease of the freelancers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u116	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 18 December: [[Wednesday 9 December h. 16 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2020]] [[Monday, December 14, h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 1994 - Decree-Law n. 137, Ristori (expands on December 27) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 130, Immigration and International Protection (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Exceeds on December 20) Tuesday 15 " h. 9,30 Wednesday 16 " h. 9,30 Thursday 17 " h. 9,30 Friday 18 h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill... (Decree-Law No 130, Immigration and International Protection) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the Report and the Senate's Internal Budget. Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2020 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 37' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' PD 21' Mixed 20' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1994 (Decree-Law No. 137, Ristori) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 27' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' FIBP-UDC 1 h. 2' PD 49' Mixed 46' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 130, Immigration and International Protection) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 2' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 44' PD 35' Mixed 33' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u117	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-279.ana.u118	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 9 December, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (16.16 p.m.).
