ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u3	The next item is: "Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on government initiatives to address the emergency arising from the outbreak of Covid-19". I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u4	Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, the spread of the coronavirus epidemic has triggered in Italy, but also in Europe, an unprecedented crisis that, as we are seeing, is exposing our country to a very hard trial. The need to contain contagion is forcing us to measure ourselves with new habits of life, with a negative impact on the entire production system involving companies, families and workers. These are terrible days for our community, the national community. Every day we are forced to register new deaths. It is a pain for our community that is renewed daily; we lose, above all, the most fragile and the most vulnerable. We would never have thought in our country of looking at images in which rows of Army trucks paraded with coffins of our fellow citizens. To their family goes my, our shared thought and our moved closeness. [[The Assembly stands. Extended applause]] Let me also extend my deepest thanks to this House for the extraordinary efforts of many doctors and nurses. We also think of the operators of the ambulances, those who respond frantically to the telephone calls of the switchboards, to all those who in these difficult days, at all levels, Civil Protection, Forces of the Order and Armed Forces are also risking their lives to save that of others. Yesterday I reminded the House of a letter from Michela, a nurse who works at the Covid department of the hospital in Senigallia. I did this to publicly thank you and to symbolically thank everyone, especially the medical staff, nurses and all the healthcare professionals. They asked us - Michela for everyone - not to forget them after this emergency has passed. I have made the Government's commitment not to forget them, and I am convinced that all of you in this House will help us to work in practice so that memory does not get lost. We are fighting an invisible and insidious enemy, who enters our homes and divides our families. It has forced us to redefine our interpersonal relationships, it makes us suspect also of friendly hands, it has forced us to impose a significant limitation of movements on the whole community, in order to contain the contagion and mitigate the risk of uncontrolled spread. It is such an engaging emergency that it comes to challenge the country in all its components, in its vital ganglia. It is a challenge at a time of health, economic and social, which involves us all, nobody excluded. It is an emergency that concerns the public sector, but also the private sector, which involves us all representatives of the institutions, but also the simple citizens. The Government, who speaks to you in particular, is fully aware that from its choices and every decision taken they derive consequences, today more than ever of immense scope for the life, first and foremost physical, of the individual citizens; choices that will also condition the future of our community. Are we up to the task that fate has reserved for us? History will judge us tomorrow, time will come for the budgets and evaluations on what we could do and we have not done. Everyone will have the opportunity to review our work and draw the consequences from it. On the other hand, I recalled yesterday that many in these days have also publicly remembered and evoke the pages written by Manzoni in There will be a time for everything; but today is the time of action, today is the time of responsibility from which no one can escape. The maximum responsibility is undoubtedly the responsibility of the Government. We are aware of this and that is why I am here to report on our actions before you, who represent the people. But the responsibility, precisely for the characteristics of our enemy (I never tire of saying so), is of all the citizens, therefore also of you Members of Parliament, because never as in this condition of absolute emergency each of us, with every single action, is called to pursue the common good, to which we are therefore all called to contribute through the respect of the rules, with patience, trust and responsibility. The Government has acted with the utmost determination and absolute speed, preparing, well before any other nation, the most precautionary measures. As of 22 January, so long before the World Health Organisation declared the crown virus an international public health emergency on 30 January, we have taken various precautionary measures. I remember a few of them. A special task force was set up at the Ministry of Health on 22 January. On 25 January, an order from the Minister of Health specified the prophylactic measures to be followed. On 27 January, the ban on landing flights from China (we were exposed to direct flights from Chinese companies) resulted in a sharp drop in the flow of passengers directly from the most intense epidemic outbreaks. On 31 January, the following day of the first episode in Rome (you will remember Chinese tourists), we proclaimed the state of national emergency for the precautionary duration of six months, entrusting to the Civil Protection the task of coordinating the activities of support to the action of the Regions in order to face the emergency. I would remind you that the organisation of health care is almost entirely the responsibility of the regions, while the state is responsible for laying down the basic principles of health protection and the definition of the essential levels of benefits. The Government, therefore, has anticipated the reaction, putting in place all the actions of its own competence necessary and useful to guard the primary goods of the life and health of the citizens. The significant rate of infection attributed to the Covid-19, with the forecast of uncontrolled spread of the virus, has given the attention of the health authorities the realistic possibility of overloading the health system compared to the need to provide care that, with particular regard to the weaker and older population, require intensive and sub-intensive care with a hospitalization rate that is difficult to sustain by the entire national health system. The limitation of the contagion was, therefore, immediately the necessary choice to allow the system to adapt with a specific emergency plan. In this perspective, the first impact and containment interventions were aimed at isolating positive cases, tracing close contacts and trying to delimit the so-called outbreaks. I remember the first case of Italian patient was discovered in Codogno. It was February 21st. On the same day, all of a sudden, the infected rose to 15. At the same time, at the same time, another outbreak was discovered in Vo' Euganeo. I was reached by this news when I was in Brussels. On that very occasion, the European Council held a river meeting, which also lasted all night. As soon as I returned to Rome, on the very evening of 21 February I immediately went to Civil Protection to get a timely update. The next day - we are in February 22 - I convened an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers in Civil Protection, during which we immediately adopted Decree-Law No 6, which laid down immediate measures to contain the contagion, defining, at the same time, a legal path, what we know, entrusted to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which has the task of defining measures gradually considered more suitable to deal with the emergency. Immediately we adopted a DCCM, on 23 February, with which we isolated the first two so-called red zones, concerning the 10 municipalities of Lodigiano and the municipality of Vo' Euganeo. It has been very stressful and challenging hours. The first time in Italy that it was possible to isolate, obviously outside the war periods, entire municipalities and entire communities. With DPCM of 25 February, only two days later, taking note of the evolution of the epidemiological situation and the increase of cases also on the national territory, he intervened in all the Municipalities of the Regions of Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lombardy, Veneto, Liguria and Piedmont, on the conduct of sports events, on the organization of school activities and higher education, on the discipline of health prevention measures at the prisons, on the regulation of the modalities of access to driving examinations, on the organization of cultural activities and for tourism. Once we verified that the circulation of the virus exceeded geographical areas easily and clearly isolatable, we immediately realized, but always following the recommendations of the Scientific Technical Committee, that the geographical containment measures lost in value and meaning, while they assumed even more importance those of social distancement, gradually increased with the successive measures, first in the regions concerned and then throughout the national territory. Yes, because, of course, our battle knows no boundaries; it develops from North to South. Our organizational and operational machine, of course, is at this moment carefully addressed to what are the needs of the North Regions, but we must concentrate our efforts also for the Centre (we also think of the Marches) and to strengthen the response to the South, in function of risk mitigation and also prevention of equally critical situations. The choice of interventions - I would like to remind you - has always been based on accurate assessments by the Scientific Technical Committee and has aimed at countering the need to strike a balance between benefits and sacrifices in the lives of citizens. We have experienced, first in Europe, a regulatory path aimed at countering, on the one hand, the need to protect at the highest level the primary good of citizens' health and, on the other hand, the need to ensure adequate democratic safeguards. It is a normative path that we have experienced first, but that many countries are now recovering and are considering in some way exemplary. For the first time since the end of the Second World War, we have been forced to limit some of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution - think - and in particular: freedom of movement and residence, freedom of assembly in its various forms, even freedom to cultivate religious practices. The principles to which we have adhered in the preparation of contagion containing measures have been those of the greatest precaution, but at the same time also of the adequacy and proportionality of the intervention with respect to the objective pursued. This is the reason for the gradual nature of the measures, which have become restrictive as the spread and severity of the epidemic have become more severe, always on the basis of indications from the Technical and Scientific Committee. Since our order - and here we differ from other constitutional systems - does not know an explicit discipline for the state of emergency, we have had to build a method of action and a strategy of intervention never before experienced, based obviously on the existing legislation and on the current articulated division of competences between State, Regions and Municipalities. We considered it necessary to use the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, after having rooted its initial legal basis in Decree-Law No 6, which I have already mentioned. We have seen this instrument as the most suitable way to react to the consequences, for its greater agility to adapt to the rapid and often unpredictable evolution of the contagion and its consequences. Secondly, this instrument has also appeared to us to be the most suitable instrument for ensuring uniform application of the measures, as far as necessary. Each decree of the President-in-Office of the Council has always been adopted with the involvement of all the Ministers, who have been able to make an important contribution, each in relation to their specific political responsibilities and personal sensitivity. We have also ensured, as expressly provided for in Decree-Law No. 6, the maximum involvement of the Regions, both individually and through the State-Regions Conference. Even for measures affecting freedom of enterprise, economic initiative and workers' rights, we considered it appropriate to involve the social partners, trade unions and trade associations. We have also paid a price for these broad involvements, because - it is news, as you well know - there have also been anticipations, which certainly have not helped to guide the population in a clear way. At the end of February, the technical-scientific committee, after acquiring the updated epidemiological data from the Higher Institute of Health, analysed the epidemiological process of the Covid-19 and its trend of diffusion after the adoption of the first forms of containment differentiated by zones. The figure represented a slight decline in the increase in cases in the so-called red zones, which corresponded at the same time to an increase in incidence in other areas, with consequent alarm for health structures, whose territorial organization began to suffer due to the significant impact of the use of intensive and sub-intensive therapies. In this context, with the spread of the virus and the attempt to stem the exponential contagion, the emerging interventions adopted by both the Presidents of the Regions and the mayors of the individual municipalities multiplied. With the successive decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, we have been able to grade the measures, often specifically limited on a territorial level, in order to make them proportionate and adequate - these have always been our principles, adequacy and proportionality, always on the basis of the recommendations of the technical-scientific committee - with respect to the objective of the containment of the contagion and the mitigation of the epidemiological risk. In particular, with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 March, we have arranged for the suspension of retail activities deemed non-essential, catering services, personal services, obviously preserving the sale of food and basic necessities. A passage, then, particularly qualifying, which I also claim as a signal from the Government of the highest attention to the world of work was the signature, on March 14, to the outcome of eighteen long hours of confrontation with trade unions and employers' associations, of a shared protocol regulating measures to combat the virus in the workplace, on the assumption that the continuation of work, in this context, can take place only in the presence of conditions that ensure adequate levels of protection for people. Finally, with the last DPCM - and we are almost at the news of these days - of March 22, the measures of containment of the contagion have been further integrated, including the prohibition for all natural persons to move or move, by public but also private means of transport, from one municipality to another, except for proven working needs, of absolute urgency or for reasons of health, and the suspension of productive, industrial and commercial activities, with the exception of those that provide public utility services as well as essential public services. The latter measure, concerning the suspension of production activities, was adopted after a comparison with trade associations and trade unions. Well, we know, it has proved to be a complex process since the selection of the essential supply chains, due to the strong integration and interconnection between productions, has proved very delicate. I dare you to remember if such a measure has ever been adopted and dare you to imagine how you can distinguish, within a complex production system, the essential productive activities from those not essential at this time. In pointing out that all the measures taken are justified, as is also acknowledged by the lawyers - I am thinking in particular of the constitutionalists - for the extraordinary nature and exceptional nature of the event, which could pose a serious and immediate danger to the health of the citizens, I am aware of the need for a proper involvement of Parliament which expresses, at the highest level, the democratic character and the democratic nature of our system. For this reason, with the decree-law published yesterday in the Official Journal, in addition to having transferred in source of primary rank, typing them, the containment measures to be taken to counter the risks deriving from the spread of the virus, we have also introduced a more precise regulation of the process process for the adoption of the DPCM, providing, among other things, the immediate transmission of the measures issued to the Presidents of the Chambers and the constraint, for the undersigned or for a Minister delegated by me, to report every fifteen days to the Chambers on the measures adopted. In this regard I would also like to say that in recent days, precisely the day before yesterday, I met the opposition leaders and you know that this was not the first time since I had met them even in the previous days. Even yesterday, in the House, I listened to statements of great openness to the debate on the measures we are taking. Well, there is full willingness on the part of the Government in this direction. As you know, the so-called Italian "cura" decree on which I will soon reflect and reason, has also been elaborated giving mandate to Minister Gualtieri to listen and to interrogate in advance with the representatives of the oppositions. There was also a technical table. Probably not all indications have been collected, but surely in the decree there are indications reported by the opposition forces. I have already announced a new decree on which I will return. We can reproduce this working methodology, but I would mandate the Minister for relations with Parliament D'Incà to draw up a path of more intense confrontation to be shared with you to enable you to acquire your most punctual evaluations. I am referring to the opposition forces. In addition to containment measures, in addition to avoiding the spread of contagion, the Government immediately activated itself to support the health system, suffering as a result of the exponential increase in the number of hospitalizations. With Minister Hope - and I mention in particular also the ministers Boccia, Di Maio and Guerini; I should quote them all, but I mention only these, because with them we are having a greater custom of confrontation, almost daily, near the Civil Protection - we are working incessantly to overcome these difficulties, taking advantage of the contribution of the head of the Civil Protection, Borrelli, and also of the commissioner appointed ad hoc for the supplyings, Arcuri. The evolution of the epidemic has led the Government to identify further measures to strengthen the National Health Service, with regard to human resources, tools and the receptive capacity of health facilities, through Decree-Law No. 14 of 2020. Those rules are very important to enhance the response and response of the National Health System. I recall the extraordinary measures contained in it for the recruitment of medical specialists, for the assignment of self-employment assignments to health workers throughout the national territory, for the temporary employment of the staff of the health professions, doctors and residents, as well as the increase in the hours of the specialized outpatient internal agreement. In parallel, the purchase of specialist instruments, consisting mainly of machines and other devices for invasive and non-invasive ventilation, and the acquisition of additional health personnel, to be used in the most affected areas, while in the rest of the country they continue preparation activities, to succeed on the one hand to slow down the wave of contagion and to reduce its peaks, in order to absorb the impact on health services, and on the other to manage cases effectively and in appropriate structures. As regards personal protective equipment and medical devices, it should be noted that production is mainly located outside the national territory. Therefore, particularly in the first phase, there was a considerable difficulty in finding them. The spread of the epidemic at global level, among other things, has led to a rise in prices, with a distortion of the market, which no longer allows us to have average reference prices. To this must be added the blockade of exports, which have adopted many producing and transiting countries. Moreover, in spite of every normal procedure, it was necessary to face the criticality linked to the need to have to pay in advance the goods, even in the face of the great risk of having to make use, alas, of poor transparent intermediaries and, as happened to intercept, inclined to international scams. Intensive therapies in Italy have passed, in a few days - I must add the fact that I reported yesterday to the Chamber of Deputies and that testifies to the remarkable and incessant work carried out by Civil Protection - to 8,883 units, with an increase of 3,540 units in a few days. As for the departments of infectious diseases and pneumology, we have reached 30,800 units, with an increase, in a few days, of 23,560 units. We have transferred 59 patients in intensive care from Lombardy to other Italian regions, due to a convention, which already existed, at Civil Protection, which is called Cross and which we have made more stringent and binding. We converted 78 hospitals to Covid Hospital. We have and are working so hard for personal protective equipment: even here the market is what it is, but we are converting all our internal supply chains, to increase production. In this respect, I would like to make one point: I have read about some controversial issues. It is unthinkable that our geopolitical location can be conditioned by these supplies. Please, let us no longer insist on this controversy, in this situation of emergency. [[Applause]] With a selection procedure of the 8,000 applications received, made in 72 hours, hundreds of new doctors will be sent in the next few days to hospitals in difficulty. At the same time, with a new order, in the next few hours, we will transfer, on a voluntary basis, 500 nurses to areas with the highest number of Covid-19 patients. These new doctors, these new nurses will be able to offer their contribution in the most affected areas, with particular regard to the municipalities of Bergamo, Brescia, Cremona, Piacenza - I mention some of them, of course - as well as to the field hospital of the National Alpine Association, which will shortly be operating in Bergamo. The Government is fully aware that the pandemic from Covid-19 not only poses a complex health challenge, but also requires a significant economic response from national and international institutions. For this reason, since the outbreak of the first coronary virus, the Government has taken economic measures to protect workers and companies involved in the emergency. With Decree-Law No. 6 we have allocated 20 million euros for 2020 to the fund for national emergencies in favor of the Civil Protection Department. This measure was followed by a decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance of 24 February, which provided for the suspension of payments and tax obligations, as well as the payment of withholding tax to residents in the first two areas concerned with the development of an outbreak. Subsequently, with Decree-Law No. 9, the Government adopted further measures to extend the obligations on citizens and businesses in the areas most affected by the epidemic, as well as measures on economic development, education and health, aimed at supporting the socio-economic fabric of the country. Awareness of the serious socio-economic consequences of the Covid-19 has led to the need for a more incisive and comprehensive economic emergency plan. You will remember that already on 5 March the Government presented a report here to Parliament, pursuant to Law No 243 of 2012, containing the request to allow a temporary deviation of the structural balance of the budget from the medium-term policy objective previously established. Soon, you will also remember that the Government has submitted a supplementary report, bringing the total increase in appropriations required to 25 billion in 2020 in terms of net balance to be financed, i.e. an increase of 20 billion in net debt planned for 2020. The European Commission has confirmed, in a letter of reply to the Government's letter of 5 March, that the one-off public expenditure measures taken in relation to the current epidemiological emergency are to be considered excluded by definition from the calculation of the structural budget balance and from the assessment of compliance with the current budgetary rules. By virtue of this greater recourse to the debt authorized by Parliament, the Government issued Decree-Law No. 18 - we summarized it as Italian care - identifying four areas of intervention for urgent action to support the economy. I would like to mention the four areas: strengthening the health system, protecting labour and income, supporting the liquidity of businesses and households, suspending tax deadlines and social security and welfare contributions. In order to strengthen the resources available to our health system, which is demonstrating in these days many critical issues, and in spite of these critical issues an enviable efficiency and reactivity of intervention - as also recognized by the World Health Organization itself - the decree allocates new resources for 3.2 billion. These resources will be used for recruitment and management of medical and health personnel, allowing up to 20,000 recruitment of personnel, in part already deliberated. In addition, the decree provides for the allocation of resources for healthcare staff overtime, which is increased by EUR 250 million for 2020; the increase of 320 units of military nursing medical staff, as well as the possibility for INAIL to hire 200 specialists and 100 nurses on a fixed time basis. In order to meet the needs of epidemiological surveillance, the appropriation for the Higher Institute of Health is also increased. As part of the protection of labour and income, the decree allocates more than EUR 12 billion in favour of social shock absorbers, job preservation and specific measures for certain categories of workers. The bonus fund by way of derogation, which has already been used in previous regulatory interventions, is extended in the decree to the entire national territory for employees of all production sectors, for a maximum duration of nine weeks. We have paid attention - first and foremost - to the categories of self-employed and atypical workers. The decree-law also intervenes in the matter of dismissals, providing for suspension; specific measures are also addressed to particular categories of workers who carry out essential activities and are not covered by the suspension of activities. The economic repercussions of the health emergency naturally concern the business world closely. It is therefore imperative to guarantee them the maximum possible degree of liquidity and to this end the Government has already put in place significant measures that allow to activate a total of 350 billion euros of financing for the benefit of the productive world. These measures are divided into four main directions: we have put in place a moratorium on loans until 30 September 2020 for the benefit of the whole system of small and medium-sized enterprises; we have then increased the central guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises with EUR 1.5 billion - and we can and must do more in this respect - so that it can intervene more extensively and provide guarantees for more than 100 billion in total; in favour of self-employed workers who have suffered a loss of more than one third of their average turnover, access to the so-called Gasparrini fund is extended, which for eighteen months guarantees the suspension of payments and payment by the State of a part of the interest on mortgages for the purchase of the first house; in favour of larger companies, finally, we have provided a state guarantee on the exposures assumed by Cassa depositi and direct loans to medium and large companies affected by the emergency. There are also forms of incentive for banking and industrial companies to transfer stranded or deteriorated loans through the conversion of their deferred tax assets into tax credits. The Decree-Law also devotes an important chapter to the suspension of tax and contribution payments, extending the scope of the interventions provided for in the previous measures. In order to support the country system in this delicate phase we have then set up a fund for the internationalization of the economic system and the support of Italian exports. Finally, in order to support the work in the emergency, the decree-law provides measures for the functionality of the police forces, the armed forces and the national fire department. Last but not least, we have foreseen some interventions in favour of the school and university system, a precious capital on which we must invest even more strongly in the name of the future of the country, helping it to overcome this phase of containment of the epidemic. The Government's commitment to support the Italian economy finds in the Italian decree-law only a first step, a first step of an emerging character. For this reason, the Government is working for a new intervention that can strengthen and strengthen economic measures already taken in the field of liquidity, social protection, income support, in favour of businesses, families and workers, with particular regard - but not only - to the self-employed. With the new measure we aim to increase the support to liquidity and credit that - I have already remembered - with the decree-law care Italy is already able to mobilize the figure of 350 billion euros. With the new regulatory action, we are confident that we will come up with an instrument with additional appropriations not less than the 25 billion already allocated. Let us continue to work: we would like to strengthen this intervention more. In short, we trust that we can offer companies, families and workers additional appropriations for a total sum of at least EUR 50 billion - I repeat - not less than EUR 50 billion. Not only that: with the next interventions we will have to make even more incisive the efforts of administrative and bureaucratic simplification - this is a very important step - in order to realize a shock therapy that finally accelerates and resolutely in our country - now needs more than ever - public and private investments, in order to put it in a position to restart forcefully, to bounce as soon as you manage to glimpse the exit from the most acute phase of the emergency. It will be crucial, therefore, to overcome the structural rigidities that have prevented the deployment of all the growth potential of Italy so far in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of certain sectors of construction and public works. At the same time, it is essential to ensure that the country system is increasingly prepared to support emergency situations, whatever the triggering cause. Our National Health System and the scientific, clinical and pharmacological research system are two invaluable resources and we must strengthen and protect them. At the same time, we must safeguard the financial capacity of our local authorities, which are very difficult, starting with the municipalities, which are the face of the state closest to our citizens, so that they can provide quality public services and ensure strong and resilient social protection networks. As I said before, the work we are carrying out has already benefited - I am thinking of the first Italian decree cure - from the suggestions that the political forces not only by majority but also by opposition have sent out. Therefore, the Government - I confirm - is in favour of continuing in this confrontation between the various political forces represented in Parliament, so as to agree on a path of sharing the remedial measures and relaunching the economy as wide as possible. The involvement of associations, production groups and the social partners will also be important because the reconstruction work we are working on must be able to involve wider groups representing the entire economic and social fabric. Allow me to thank both employers' professional associations and trade union associations, because they are showing a great sense of responsibility at this emerging stage. We must take advantage of this emergency, this shock of exogenous origin in opportunities to relaunch the entire social and economic system along a path of equitable and sustainable growth. These weeks of struggle and battle against the diffusion of coronavirus have also shown the importance of preserving some production chains of crucial importance for national health and safety, such as those related to health fans and personal protective equipment. A first important step in the direction of the recovery of national supply chains was also made with the new incentives provided by the Italian decree for the production and supply of medical devices for personal protection. At the moment - I remember - 50 million euros are available to support Italian companies that want to expand and convert their business to produce fans, masks, glasses, shirts and safety suits. These are resources which, as part of the State aid scheme, were authorised by the European Commission in less than 48 hours, after the immediate notification of the measure within the Community by the Minister for Economic Development. The emergency also shows us the importance of protecting our industries of strategic interest in the light of a wide range of epidemiological, environmental, seismic, IT and geopolitical risks. The most precious assets of the country must be protected by all means and we will be able to work in this direction starting from the next regulatory measure in April. For the economic recovery of Italy, then, the public and private investments in environmental sustainability and the increasing impulse to the digital transformation of the country remain of absolute centrality. The experience of the last three weeks has shown us that a real digital transformation of school, university and work is necessary and possible. We need to focus all the best energies in the country and the resources available on enhancing connectivity, digital training and technological innovation, ensuring equal access to IT tools for all citizens. In order to effectively implement these priorities of intervention, in a medium and long-term planning framework, our country will need a simplified regulatory framework - I want to emphasize - and as favorable as possible to investments and the use of significant public resources to continue to support the economy in the phase of exit from the health emergency. Hence, in this perspective, the decision taken by the European Central Bank on 18 March, which increased the total volume of the securities purchase programme to counter the economic risks of the coronavirus pandemic, including the possibility of revisiting the current self-imposed limits, if necessary, is crucial. The recession, which we expect to be tough and severe, will invest the entire European continent and take on the character of an external and symmetrical shock. The response of the eurozone's monetary and fiscal policy cannot and must not be undermined by a risk of fragmentation of financial markets, especially in the context of government debt securities. From this point of view, the European Commission's proposal to activate the general safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact is of absolute importance. This clause will be essential in order to be able to proceed with additional resources which will become necessary starting with the definition of the new support measure in April, on which - I repeat - I hope the broadest cooperation of all political forces. However, the financial and socio-economic impact of the pandemic will be such that the economic governance of the eurozone requires a qualitative leap that is up to the challenge. Our monetary union can only emerge as a winner if its institutions are strengthened in the sign of solidarity and unity. In these weeks of emergency, I have strongly promoted coordinated action with other government ministers towards the European institutions and other Member States in order to call for a rapid and effective European response of a health, but also economic, nature. To such an extraordinary emergency we must react with coordinated, timely and extraordinary measures, reassuring European citizens and also the financial markets. We must send out a strong and clear message: Europe is united and willing to do everything necessary to preserve its economies and its social fabric. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Errani.]] We must also be prepared to think about innovative initiatives and rethink old instruments. By turning them upside down. Correct answers, but late will be completely useless. Member States' budgets will have to continue to mobilise public resources during 2020 and only a policy of synergy will allow the eurozone to return to a sustained growth path. It is the Government's conviction that to date no one - I repeat none - of the available instruments designed during previous periods of crisis of different nature - can constitute a vehicle capable of implementing that courageous economic response to the pandemic of which all citizens feel the need. For this reason, Italy continues to work on the creation of common eurozone debt instruments that can finance governments' efforts and build an adequate line of defence. It has been reasoned also in these days of crown bonds. It is not a linguistic formula that drives me crazy; I would perhaps be inclined, if I have to make a suggestion, for European recovery bonds, but it is not a vocabulary problem. Over the last few hours, I have carried out an initiative shared by the leaders of eight other Member States (Belgium, France, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain). Yesterday we sent a letter to the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, whom I heard on the phone. We have expressed and shared a clear point of view: Europe can only deal with this shock by resorting to extraordinary and exceptional measures. These measures should be aimed primarily at limiting the spread of the virus as far as possible and at strengthening the health systems of individual Member States. They must be able to save the production and distribution of vital goods and services within the European Union and effectively counter the adverse effects of the unprecedented crisis. This is a battle that you win all together, otherwise we'll all lose. [[Applause from the M5S, FIBP-UDC, PD, Mixed and Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] I will repeat this position already in a few hours' time, when there will be a video conference at G20 level, and then in the afternoon, at the European Council summit that we will hold. In conclusion, we are in the midst of a challenge that we and the generations closest to us, our parents and grandparents, would never have imagined we had to face. Just think, who would have imagined that? It is a very hard test that comes from and originates from exogenous factors, for which therefore we cannot blame ourselves for anything. The virus, this enemy, is invisible, knows no boundaries and how the wind blows where it wants. It is up to us to continue to face this challenge with courage, determination and responsibility. To these qualities we must add another: the pride of belonging to a community of individuals that boasts a great tradition, of rare strength and beauty, and is looking forward to relaunching itself to reaffirm, united and proud, confidence in its own future and its greatest virtues. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is possible today to begin any intervention without addressing our thinking to those who allow us to be here and to Italy to stand, despite everything. I am thinking of doctors, nurses, law enforcement, prison police, direct farmers, supermarket cashiers and all those who, with individual daily gestures of heroism, allow Italy to stand. [[Applause.]] Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that these people do not serve the State because they decided to be heroes: they did not want to be heroes, but they wanted to do their duty alone and simply. If the emergency asks them today for acts of heroism, we will have to bear it in mind even after, when the emergency is over and so many speeches can be made - for example - about the Public Health System, which we have lost for too long, but which today, despite everything, allows us to have confidence. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fedeli.]] I would like to address a thought to the families, to those who cannot mourn their loved ones and to a category of the country that is very dear to me: the grandparents and the elderly, those who at this moment feel more than others the drama of moments that they would never have thought of living. Then I want symbolically to bow down, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies and I think of many of you - I quote one city - to the city of Bergamo; I want to bow down to its inhabitants, to the memory of those who did not make it, to this great city that represents an honor and a boast for the whole nation. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, today we are at war; in times of war desertions are not admissible. The time for peace will come - we hope - and at that point the budgets will be made, everyone will make the assessments, we will be able to examine what has gone and what has not worked. If I may, however, I would like to list a few issues. I start from the first, which is what concerns us, because in these days I believe that it has hurt many of us to hear on television, many times, the exploitation built on non-existent facts that Parliament had to reopen. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Parliament is there, it is open, it has never closed and woe to that country where Parliament is afraid to do its duty when there are so many categories in the front row. We are here simply like the others, with masks; the Commissions work as they did this week through Skype or even directly. All this is part of the work that Italians do. I remember a President of the Republic years ago, President Cossiga, sometimes considered eccentric, who had drawn up and wanted to draw up a more profound protocol on the functioning of Parliament and the institutions in times of dramatic crisis such as the current one. We underestimated that this could ever happen, but we are here today. The functioning of Parliament and the institutions in times of crisis is a matter that will be seriously addressed for the future. Another issue concerns the application of technology, the relationship between democracy, the right of privacy and the limitation of freedom at times like these. This too is a frontier of the issues to be addressed by the legislator. The relationship - as I mentioned earlier - between public health and private health: let me say that many models are shattered [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] and are shattered precisely because it was intended to give priority to the idea that the subject of private health could be the solution. That is not the case and we see it clearly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nugnes.]] I quote the relationship between the State, the Regions and the Municipalities in order to avoid institutional conflicts - colleagues - the multiplication of ordinances and indications given to the citizen who understands absolutely nothing. Someone has mocked the constitutional referendum, the reform that took place in the last legislature on the subject of the reorganization between the State and the Regions. It was absolutely necessary and such facts prove it. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]] The President-in-Office of the Council is right: no one can exploit masks, doctors, etc. to criticize - let us say this - the subversion of geopolitical rights and traditional alliances. Mr President, allow me: we have also spoken with Mr Di Maio on other occasions about the issue of geopolitical upheaval that does not exist for Cuban nurses who arrive or for masks. It exists because this issue has been on the ground dramatically for some time, as we see in the Mediterranean. Then I thank all the help we receive. I appreciated the silent work that Minister Di Maio has done these days, including bringing back thousands of fellow countrymen: Farnesina has done an extraordinary job, from this point of view. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Begins and Errani]] Well: the theme of geopolitical alliances exists and exists. The concept of the West is undermined by political choices that have also been made beyond the Atlantic, on which we must reflect very seriously. The protection of Italian companies (golden power) is certainly fundamental. We cannot be expropriated and we cannot accept that someone takes advantage of an objective crisis condition to snatch what are Italian assets. Europe is at the moment of truth. Eurobonds and other forms have been mentioned. I think Draghi said something very important yesterday. We must be grateful to a personality like Draghi, who reminded us that, during the wars, debts go up and has therefore given a clear focus on European policy and financial policy. [[Applause from Senator Beginini]] Colleagues, no one can throw the first stone. Are there any government mistakes? Probably there are, there will be and have a more visible impact than the mistakes of others, because the mistakes of others do not have the counterproof. But there are also the mistakes of others: let's tell the truth, since we are talking to Italians. Those who said "we open everything" then said "let's close everything" in space of a few hours. Why? Not because of the responsibility of individual people or because politicians make mistakes more than others, but because reality has been fast and unpredictable. Of course, the videos in which the President-in-Office said on 27 January that we had arrived before the others are being filmed online, but our imagination, on 27 January, was not in a position to understand what would come next. Do we want to have an act of loyalty to Italy? Not the opposition to the majority or the majority to the opposition, but to Italy. We must note that the crisis has been greater than we and our capacity to predict. Today, however, we must move forward together; let us study the formula. I believe that we need availability, as the President-in-Office of the Council has also said. In my long years of experience I have been in the majority and in opposition; sometimes the majority only ask for words, because to be really available you have to share recipes. Well, then let's try to study the formula, even using the Conference of Leaders. We could set up a special Commission for two or three months, within which there is the possibility of debating in Parliament and not outside Parliament, otherwise we ourselves accept a delegitimization of the policy that will inevitably be there, because our country is a country where consensus is easy to turn into reproach. We have to think today about what will happen tomorrow, when thousands of people lose their jobs. So let us try to build instruments in Parliament. I think, for example, that a special Commission with a duration of three months, which can be renewed, can be the place where majority and opposition can work together. I would then set up, with experts from all backgrounds, a task force for recovery, because the point is that today we are not able to know the damage there will be. There is talk of an integration fund for those who close, because many activities have to close. But it is not that the activities that remain open do not suffer to a large extent, except for some specific areas... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u7	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u8	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). I'm done. I believe that we must set up a task force that can immediately study a revolution of measures for the future. The problem that we have today, as a political class, is not only to fight war, but to begin to understand how we will fight the second part of the war. I believe that all together, in the name of Italy, we have a great responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Conzatti and De Bertoldi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u9	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u10	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have never been so proud of being Italian as when our institutions, all together, have shown a difference of style, content and response to another European country, even if no longer belonging to the European Union, in relation to the Covid-19 affair. In fact, it has happened that one of your fellow Prime Ministers, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, has addressed the Coronavirus emergency by saying that we must get used to losing our loved ones. That Prime Minister, who studied ancient civilizations and Greece and Rome, should remember that the greatness of Rome and Italy was given by that character, Enea, who takes charge of his father Anchise and arrives in the new promised land, where he founds Rome, bearing the beauty of the experience on his shoulders. We Italians have shown that we do not resign to leave our loved ones. We Italians said that we make sacrifices, all together, to save the lives of our grandparents. We must all be proud and proud of this and we must thank the Government and the other institutions for acting in this direction. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S and Mixed]] Now, though, we have to get out of this. We have to work to save our grandparents' lives. We must avoid dying of Covid-19 and we must avoid starving. There is a very strong economic emergency in front of us. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council was right to come to Parliament and the President of the Senate was right to create the conditions. I was among those who criticized an excess of institutional communication. Today I want to acknowledge the President-in-Office of the Council that he is here and that he is open to a real and real debate. Just to be equally frank and clear, the whole debate on the past, which has been made on time by the President of the Council, with a claim for choice, cannot be the subject of today's debate, because this cannot be the time. The President-in-Office of the Council has done well to communicate what has been done. I think that each of us can appreciate his Manzoni quote: "The sense of hindsight is full of its pits." There is another, President Conte, in Chapter 32 of the Promised Marriages, always on the subject of the plague. It's the one where Manzoni says common sense was there, but he was hiding it out of fear of common sense. I wonder if, in some passages of our experience, we had a little 'fear of common sense to say things of common sense: from direct flights to swabs to doctors; to Consob, because the opening and closing of the bags concerns Consob and not the Government. We, in fact, closed the companies, but we were told that we could not close the bags for two months and we could not block short selling. Then, however, it was seen that it could be done. I wonder about our inmates' issues. If you, State, deprive a man of freedom by law, you have a duty to take charge of his life. [[Applause from Senator Margiotta.]] And if there are 13 inmates, someone has to pay the bill for what happened. I'm referring to the warden of the penitentiary administration. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, PD and Mixed]] All these issues will be discussed in due course. I propose the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The parliamentary committees of inquiry have taken place on everything: in the face of 8,000 deaths, I believe it is a civil duty to talk about it after the summer holidays, after the recovery. In addition to the gigantic thanks to the doctors and nurses, I fully agree with the words of Senator Casini, who said in an exceptional way what had to be said and I am on his side. I would like us all together to face the during because there is also a later one, and this next could be fascinating. Today Alessandro Baricco writes beautiful words about the Republic on the audacity of the after. There will be an after on innovation, technology, smart working. There will be an after on environmental sustainability. There will be another world after the coronavirus, because it concerns not only Italy, but the whole Planet. There will be a later one and it will be a later one where there will be Italy and the Italians, who are giving wonderful proof of resistance and civil value. Italians, in fact, who have often been criticized, are following difficult rules and are doing so with a sense of citizenship that should be rewarded publicly, for the style they are having. In this after he comes, we will be there. Let's give this message to those who have been in the house for 15 days. The Italians, with their imagination, their inspiration and their innovation will be there: they will have something to say and to give; I am convinced. But what worries me is today's world, not tomorrow's. We are seeing the trailer of a horror film; I say it without controversy in this House. But how long was no-vax discussed? How many times has the quality of scientific studies been questioned? Personalities, like Roberto Burioni, threatened with false red brigade posters in 2017 and 2018. How many times did someone tell us that they could face the big challenges without going after science or even with no-vax? What we are seeing in these hours is the trailer of a horror film: the world without vaccines. I say this with respect to the sovereignists: how many times have they told us that we will be better off eliminating Schengen, we will be better at arming the borders, we will be better at home? Our cities die without tourists; our companies die without exporting: Veneto dies if it does not export, Emilia-Romagna dies if it does not export. The trailer of a sovereign world is scary. Mr President, there is the "during" to be dealt with. Donald Trump is highly criticized on the left in the United States. I'm with Joe Biden asking, where are the masks? Where are the swabs? Why doesn't the health system work? But Donald Trump - let's face it - made the right choice from the economic point of view: he did not make a series of interventions but only an intervention: 2,000 billion dollars. He did so after he ended up in Congress with the Democrats and had reached an agreement in principle on this point. Attention, Democrats and Republicans hate each other in America: the Speaker of the Chamber, Nancy Pelosi, destroyed Trump's speech on the state of the Union with an institutional gesture at the limit of provocation (also because Trump had put his own, as a reaction). Well, in that political climate, where they are giving it a godly reason even in view of the presidential elections, the economic measure has done it together, and it is a measure of $2,000 billion. Angela Merkel, who many dispute and criticize, immediately took the ball at the leap to implement a measure that was unimaginable by Germany's rigorist a few years ago. And today Mario Draghi, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, points out to you the way when he says that, of course, we must owe it, but we must do so in order to give first of all liquidity to that system of small and medium-sized enterprises which risks not reopening anymore. We have been discussing for days what the code is to close some companies, production; right, but the problem is what the code is to get them reopened. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Marcucci]] If we do not allow small and medium-sized enterprises to have liquidity, they die. Mr President, since I am convinced that you know this, allow me to represent an image, the one proposed by Bernini, in the sculpture of Enea, Anchise and Ascanio: there is Enea holding Anchise, but next to it is Ascanio, the son. We are not asking for money from Europe, but from our children. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD.]] Saying that we are in debt means that, in order to save Anchise, Aeneas is right to do everything he has to do; but Ascanius will pay the bill, our children will pay it. Let's spend this money well, then. Let me say: let us make a single decree, let us not make a decree a month; let us limit the number of decrees, because we have made too many of them. Let's do one together (and not enough 50 billion euros for the next decree). It must be the last decree - not the next decree of a saga - in which to state clearly all that is needed for the enterprises to be put in condition to reopen. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We are talking about the reopening of activities, not about closure, because we cannot continue to imagine that, in the face of the crisis, we are not telling the truth. Mr President, we must live with Covid. It is useless to hold too long discussions: the Covid we carry with us for at least two years, until we have a way not only to experiment with the vaccine and test it, but also to see its effects. It is clear that if we are two years ahead, we cannot stay in the house for all this time; we cannot keep the Italians standing still without working. The Covid is an emergency that will be there for the next two years. Then a beautiful world will come, that of tomorrow, but in these two years there is a "middle ground" in which to reopen the companies is fundamental, otherwise we will transform the country into a mass of unemployed. That is why we are here, Mr President: we have asked you to pay great attention to the school so that the children can be evaluated before the end of the year; we have asked you for some symbolic gestures such as, for example, with all the safety chrysms, to reopen the bookstores, because we must feed the soul too. Just as the newsstands are open, bookshops must be reopened. We have also said to you, Mr President, that either we are now in a position to imagine the economic future or we will make the same mistake with the delays that have occurred in other areas with regard to the health situation. In 1348 - the President of the Council knows this because he knows Florence for professional reasons as well as personal reasons - the plague struck Florence and seemed the end of the world. Florence was one of the largest cities in the world, one of the megalopolis (it had 100,000 inhabitants) and was decimated. The plague seemed to be the end of everything, yet from the plague was born, yes, certainly the "Decamerone" of Boccaccio, but also that proud and proud spirit that gave life then to the Renaissance. We make the right choices and really everything will be fine. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD, and Senator Errani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u11	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this emergency, Brothers of Italy have demonstrated composure, a sense of responsibility, willingness to work not for the Government but with the Government for the good of the nation, as a patriotic opposition must do. We'll do the political bill later. On every occasion we have brought our proposals to strengthen the national health system and specific economic measures against crisis for companies, businesses, professionals, families, workers and VAT consignments. Even when we criticized it we did so with a sense of responsibility because we must also admit that something did not work, it must be said that there was a delay of at least twenty-five days in terms of preventive action: from that 31 January in which the state of emergency was declared for six months to that 25 February that you too, President Conte, recalled, when the measure on the red areas of the North was adopted. There are no immediate follow-up measures on the supply and distribution of personal protective equipment to doctors and nurses and no acquisition of breathing equipment has been achieved. Meanwhile, in that vacuum, a freighter was shipped with 18 tons of medical supplies to China (but this has now become another story). We rushed too quickly from the minimalist mantra of the "is only an influence" or - I quote - the possibility of spreading the virus in Italy is very remote to the tragic situation we live, passing through - we must remember - that antipathetic refrain that ask for the mandatory quarantine for anyone coming back from China, regardless of its nationality, was useless alarmism and even discrimination racism. Something did not work even in the communication of the four decrees issued in a few days: there was so much confusion. From that messy announcement - we were here in the Chamber - on the closing of schools the next day - I remember the anticipation of Saturday 7 March on urgent containment measures in Lombardy and in many other provinces that triggered night exodus and assaulted trains from the North to the South with the effects of contagion that followed. I remember last Saturday, March 21, with the direct RAI and Facebook for a long time waiting for the announcement of unwritten measures that would enter into force on Monday 23, while the most restrictive regional ordinances became effective on part of the national territory and thus created further chaos and confusion in the divergence of rules. It is a good rule - it is known - to write the measures before announcing and sharing them before adopting them, involving Parliament, also to avoid - allow me - giving the impression of a game played alone or of self-referential communication, distant from the minute and daily reality of people's lives. Today the lives of others are ours and you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who can enter the homes of all Italians, say thank you to everyone for what they are and are doing. Not only do you talk about the necessary restrictive measures, but, addressing everyone, explain to everyone (to those who have lowered the shutter, to those who have lost their jobs, to those who no longer go to school or university, to those who have a disabled person in the house, to those who are elderly and alone, to those for whom staying at home means not earning money and not knowing how to shop) and say: For you, for you and for you, the State has foreseen this. And tell him how much and tell us when, even in terms of liquidity, it's the most urgent thing. I am referring, as my colleague Mr Renzi also mentioned, to the liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises, for families and for those who have to put in cash for integration, without leaving too much discretion to the banks. We must then turn to each and every one, because everyone is doing their part. It is also to reduce these distances that we have insisted on a parliamentary confrontation and, more importantly, a serious involvement of Parliament, coming to propose, as President Giorgia Meloni did, a chamber of parliamentary direction: the palace with open doors, as a place where to work daily, all together, precisely because everyone has to do his part and stay in his place. We have asked everyone to do their part and stay in their place, even those who stay at home, those who are forced to work to secure essential goods, those who sacrifice themselves beyond themselves, in the lane or operating room, those who make the receipt to us at the supermarket counter, those who drive a truck to bring food, to our Forces of Order and our Armed Forces, who are at the forefront. We've asked everyone, and that's why we have to be here, in our place. We have a duty to do our part, we want to have the right to fight this common battle. And we also want, Mr President, not only to be heard, but also to be heard and to see our proposals accepted. You did not listen to us when we proposed in advance the total lockout for fifteen days, the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner with legal powers, when we immediately said to predict at least 30 billion euros for the first necessary measures and we were still talking about 3.6, then 7.5 and then 25 billion euros of the decree cure Italy, that we know to be a hot cloth, because for the cure really will serve much more. Listen to us to bring this country back to life, which will raise its head as only Italians can do. We work together to get out of the health and economic emergency, together to prevent and avoid desertification of the production system, to prevent speculative attack on Italian companies, to prevent predatory assault. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to make a heartfelt request: defend Italy in Europe, defend Italy from this kind of Europe, absent when it is needed and which is proving to be only selfish, stepmother and vexatious. Defend Italy from the blackmails of the European Central Bank, free Italy from bureaucracy and fiscal maze, give us the freedom and passion of the enterprise, which is all Italian. Defend Italy from the economic dictatorship of the ESM and Troika strozzina, defend Italy, defend our national sovereignty and national interest. Brothers of Italy there is, in today's common battle, and there is, I emphasize it (as it is perceived in scientific and psychological literature), in the resilience of tomorrow. Resilience, ladies and gentlemen, understands and overcomes rebirth; it is Italy's resilience after globalisation has demonstrated all its fragility. Resilience, because it will serve after a change of pace. In this resilience, in this vision Brothers of Italy there is today and there will be tomorrow, because ours is not only the name of a party, it is not only a label, ours is a way of feeling, it is a way of being, it is a vision of the nation and of politics understood in terms of service. We are the children and we are the brothers of Italy and for this and for tricolor pride we will always be there. [[Applause from the FdI Group, FIBP-UDC and Senator Salvini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u13	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u14	Mr President, our country and the government have been faced with the most serious and most dramatic crisis since the post-war period, all of a sudden, with a suddenness that could not be predicted in this dimension. Those who claim otherwise, those who accuse the Government of not having been sufficiently forward-looking should reflect on the fact that perhaps, not by chance, all the countries of the world, no one excluded, have been taken off guard. Some have also blamefully theorized that they do not want to put in place a prevention; others have been surprised by the speed at which this health crisis has occurred, which then widens - we know perfectly well, as President Conte and all his colleagues have said here - to involve the economy and our own way of life. Faced with this unexpected and unpredictable explosion - at least to this extent - there may have been uncertainties, there may have been some oscillation, but they were due precisely to the extreme difficulty of anticipating events, of understanding how the contagion evolved. Moreover, in no other part of the world - it has to be said clearly - the virus had spread with the particular ways in which it concentrated and spread in Lombardy. But we can all say with pride that the whole country has been able to react. They have been able to react with immense courage, generosity and self-denial to the doctors, the health workers in the front line, whom I once again thank on behalf of my entire Group. In this case, talking about the first line is certainly not a metaphor: it is just a first line. They have done so and are doing so at the very risk of life, have reacted and are reacting to all citizens, accepting a series of sacrifices and limitations of their unprecedented freedom. When we repeat that there are still too many infringements, however, we must add that 95% of Italians - as we know from the controls - show that they behave with discipline and a sense of responsibility. It has reacted and is reacting to the Government: having increased intensive care departments in a few weeks by 65% and quadrupling those of sub-intensive therapy is a huge and very important result, which was not obvious. Let us not forget the cuts that had been made to our entire health care system in previous years. It is thanks to this immense effort that Italian hospitals are being fought, certainly amid great difficulties, but we do not see images such as those that come to us, for example, from another great European country that is today in similar conditions to ours, I refer to hospitals in Spain, in Madrid. We all, the Government and the institutions, are therefore forced to move in a difficult balance. We must do everything we can and even more to enforce the rules that alone can prevent this crisis from becoming a catastrophe, but we must do so by fully safeguarding our principles. We must be strict and strict, but without giving in to any temptation, perhaps to militarize the country. We must be drastic and timely, but without sacrificing - the Government has done well - the dialogue with all the social partners, with the local administrations, with the whole range of parliamentary forces, without sacrificing the centrality of Parliament. There have been vain words about the fact that Parliament was closed; President Alberti Casellati knows - and he has rightly said so - how much we have been active in these days and weeks in every possible way to ensure that Parliament continues to function. It is certainly a difficult and difficult mission, but I think we are succeeding. Although the main front is the fight against the virus, we cannot forget that this crisis is not only health. The measures that the government has had to take are not at zero cost; unfortunately they will weigh terribly on our economy, but they already weigh today on the material conditions of many people, women and men left without income, of precarious people who may have an intermittent job and who do not have a minimum of certainty for their future, of single-income families left without income, of tenants who may not know if they will collect rents and tenants who do not know if they will be able to pay the rent, or of small shopkeepers who are in great difficulty. For all these people the problem of social distance is not to have to give up running or aperitif: it is a matter of survival and no one can tell them with certainty when all this will end. Taking care of these citizens, of our citizens, it is urgent to deal with the virus and it is an essential condition for the social holding of the country, without which even the war against the virus can be won. The Government has made an unprecedented effort by putting on the field with the decree-law care Italy 25 billion euros, the equivalent of a budget maneuver, but we know that it will not be enough. You, Mr Conte, have assured us that a further effort will be made in April, but it will have to be great because we need to put in place all the resources we can to prevent the crisis from overwhelming a lot of people and then, as a result, the whole of our economy. More needs to be done, to ensure support for all, to provide liquidity to support companies in great difficulty, but also to support people in equally dramatic difficulties and to revive the path we have taken. Today must not be the excuse to put aside investment in the things that this country needs; we have seen the risk of having sacrificed investments in health care, we must not forget it! When this is over, when we have overcome the crisis, we must not forget where and how it is necessary to invest for the good of people in health and quality of life. For this reason, however, all the means available to the European Union must be put in place. The suspension of the parameters of the Stability Pact - very well - was an important step, but we know that it will not be enough. Nor would it be enough for the decision - which some people do not want to take - to release the aid perhaps from any sort of police station or memorandum. A drastic and radical steering is needed in the nature and mission of the ECB; We must immediately reach that debt-sharing which Italy, with other European States, asked in the letter that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, sent to President Michel. Eurobonds are no longer a desirable option: they are an obligation that must be assumed as soon as possible. At the same time, it is necessary for all EU countries to take the same measures in the fight against coronavirus; it is essential because, as you said, otherwise the risk of a recovery of infection, even once the current outbreaks are extinguished, would be very high. The same economic measures must also be taken, because it would be paradoxical for unfair competition to take place. We know that these demands and proposals face powerful oppositions. The "northern front" has reappeared. They're very shortsighted positions. The European Union has already given a bad proof of itself in the face of the sovereign debt crisis in 2010-2011; the result has been a great disaffection towards the Union, which has destabilised almost all EU countries. Today Europe is faced with some kind of appeal, but we must know that there will probably be no other opportunity. The time to prove that the European Union is not only rigorous, but also a true supranational community capable of overcoming national selfishness, and showing solidarity and a united spirit is this. This is the last call. We are not facing a serious crisis. As Mario Draghi has also written, addressing the European Union and its countries, the States must be able to mobilise all available resources without worrying about the public debt, because the alternative would be much more destructive. First of all, people must not lose their jobs. The costs of hesitation would be irreversible. This is the drama facing us and the European Union (all of the European Union, including the "North Front") should be aware of. In conclusion, Mr President, you have said well: this is the time for responsibility, but also for all of us to demonstrate together the strength of a country that neither loses heart nor loses hope in the future, as well as that of a state that says to all its citizens: We will not leave you alone and we will put all resources and energies in place to make sure that we can get out of this crisis together. We're all gonna make it together. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is one of the many difficult days. I am happy to speak on this side of the House, because today everything can be interpreted correctly and everything can be given a symbolic value. You told us that today is the moment of unity and responsibility of the whole country, of the whole nation and of the entire ruling class that we have the burden to represent. There have been many criticisms - perhaps too many - at various levels, local and territorial, of the mayors, of the Presidents of the Regions, of the President of the Council and of all of us. The truth is one, simple and perhaps even banal. It is obvious that we all feel - and we are probably - inadequate at this terrible time for the country; we are inadequate because this is an unexpected tragedy, the size of which was obviously incredible until a few weeks ago. Therefore, we simply have a duty, in view of our responsibility towards the country, our national community and individuals: the duty to do our best, the best we know how to do, but also not to back off and have courage, to put our face on, working every day in the interest of the country to get out of this health emergency and start thinking about the future of a different Italy that, necessarily, in these hours is changing and will have changed. And so - and I must do so myself - on behalf of the Democratic Party, my Group and all of our members, militants and voters I feel obliged to thank our doctors, our nurses and the staff of the cooperatives in the hospitals that work for a few euros and provides their performance and courage, as well as the Civil Protection, the law enforcement, the city police and our administrators who go on the streets to convince the citizens to abide by our provisions. [[Applause]] I also feel it is my duty to thank you all, members of the Government, the parliamentarians and all the parties that today - I believe - have above all - indeed, perhaps only - at heart the future of our country. It's time for responsibility. Yesterday we had a meeting between the Leaders; responsibility does not mean being unanimous by force, but it means cooperating, making your contribution, being loyal: when you say one thing, you say it because you think of doing good, not because you think of using it in political terms or consensus, it is simple the difference. If one speaks with the strength of his own reason and experience, and especially with the heart, knowing that he cares for the interest of the country, he certainly does the right thing. Then it is not important if we all vote together in this House; for me it is not important: they matter instead the state of mind and the will. I therefore appeal to Senator Salvini (who will speak after me), to Senator Bernini, to Brothers of Italy and to all the political forces of the majority. The appeal is to have this kind of approach; to be consistent and courageous; to have the pride to do their part. We'll do it on the decree-law that we have to convert in a few days. The goal is to convert it on April 8th or in any case to do as soon as possible. We know what that decree is; we know how it was born and what the financial and economic resources were. We are aware of the efforts made by the Government, the President of the Council and the Minister of Economic Affairs to obtain the availability that the Government has rightly put in place and available to the country. This does not mean that this decree cannot be amended; it can be improved and we must ensure that citizens benefit immediately from the enormous effort we have made. We need to ensure that companies immediately have liquidity and, therefore, forces of majority and opposition, let's confront ourselves on how that availability of tens of billions of euros that the Government has been able to find today can become benefit for workers in cash integration, for the self-employed who must have the minimum to resist at this stage, for the companies that need to have liquidity in order to meet their commitments and not go with books in court. Let us do this about the decree; it will be useless to table flag amendments to wave a tomorrow to say phrases such as: We said so. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] On this decree, if we all want to make the interest of the country, we simply have to work to be at the side of the government, improve the text and, therefore, do the good of the Italians because there are many categories that are being helped, because it is an answer on the emergency in the immediacy and the need to give answers. However, on the other hand, the Government has made it clear to us in the institutional framework how it should do so, and I thank the President-in-Office for announcing that he is constantly informing Parliament about the development of the health crisis, the emergency and also the economic initiatives that he intends to take. He also announced that soon there will be a new decree-law financed in a consistent way: we are talking about an additional EUR 25 billion. It is important to work on it immediately; I believe that the Government will have to approve that decree-law by April 16, because we will have new tax deadlines. Instead of wasting our time to table hundreds of amendments on a decree-law that we know cannot be changed in those terms, all political forces work together to give the government in the House in these hours a support, a direction, a unitary force of the country to face this epochal crisis. Let us all give together the strength to the Government and our President-in-Office of the Council to go to Europe and get what he is pursuing today with great determination: extraordinary funding mechanisms. I believe that this is what we must feel deep down and that the country expects from a ruling class, perhaps inadequate, we know and I repeat it. I am the first to denounce my inadequacy, but we know that in front of us we need to overcome this obstacle, to save the country and put ourselves on the ramp of launching a new growth and a new Italian miracle that is within the reach of this country. You, President Conte, called us to courage, determination and responsibility: the Democratic Party will be there, with courage, determination and responsibility. The Democratic Party feels strong - indeed, very strong - that pride of being part and representation of a great national community, which in the coming weeks and months will overcome the emergency health and, hence at an average time, the economic one that we face. We call all political forces and the whole country to this responsibility and this momentum of national pride. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Mixed Groups and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u17	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let us look to the future: let us take the call - as we have been doing for days and weeks - with concrete proposals, in respect of those who are at home and who have immediate problems. The problems of those who are at home, in fact, concern the next weekend: beyond declarations of intent and the learned historical and humanistic quotations, people want to understand if the integration fund arrives this month or between two, because the bills, the mortgages and the installments of the rents do not wait. Doctors, nurses and health care professionals feel them every day, like all of you; we put our hands forward, we do not just need applause, compliments or medals: we need to intervene heavily on the salaries of those who are risking their lives on the front line. The Government has issued a measure that provides for those who will work at the Milan-Cortina Olympics a salary taxed only on 30 percent of the upright, therefore exempt for the remaining 70 percent: we ask for the same financial treatment for medical, health and nursing staff and that therefore 70 percent of their salaries be exempt for the next years, because of pats on the shoulders have full pockets in the wards of hospitals. Let's think about the immediate, because today the government is asking for immediate answers. Mr President, millions of masks are missing, in nursing homes, in hospital lanes and in homes! The emergency, in fact, in a few weeks will move from hospitals to homes: when sick people are discharged, they will need the oxygen tanks at home, which are missing and are now on the black market; the Italians are at home and sacrifice themselves, but they claim to be protected and respected. Saturometers are missing to evaluate the amount of oxygen in the blood, which have reached 200 euros of quotation: as an Italian citizen I expect these answers from the government, but now. The same applies to suits and shirts and this is not a matter of biased controversy: I read in fact that the governor of Campania De Luca, of the PD, said: that we risk the drama. Nothing came from Rome. The governor of the PD of Puglia says that there are no masks and nothing comes from Rome. The governor of the PD of Emilia-Romagna says he had to move, because in Rome they were wasting time. It is therefore not a problem of the right or the left, because the virus does not affect the right or the left, the beautiful or the ugly ones, it affects everyone. We've reached 7.503 dead. I would like this number not to multiply and therefore I would like to raise the appeal of the mayors. Yesterday I heard the mayors of some municipalities in Bergamo who did not receive a telephone call from anyone; in Grumello, the dead last March had been 5, the dead this year are 35. And so in many other municipalities of the Brescia and Bergamo border. Allow me to say that those who allow themselves to criticize the quality of health care offered by Lombardy doctors should be ashamed of themselves. [[Applause]] Before questioning the quality of service offered to citizens by political controversy, one should be ashamed. In Lombardy 700 extra beds of intensive care have been made thanks to the heroism of the health care staff, not of someone coming from other countries. These are the numbers. Without a polemical spirit, however, at the end of everything we will have to ask who started it all and lost weeks blamefully in denouncing the epidemic. If the Chinese government knew, did not denounce and did not protect, it committed a crime against humanity and now it is not possible to make the one who infected the world as a savior. [[Applause]] This is unacceptable. The aid is welcome from everyone, but is it true that three weeks have been lost in the complaint to the World Health Organisation of the epidemic risk? Is it true, yes or no? There are no third ways; if it is yes, it is yes, if it is not, it is no. So a health emergency that is addressed with all the necessary means. I ask you - you have appointed a Commissioner - to give answers, but to do so today; in a week's time it is late, because those masks and suits can save your life. The Region of Sardinia has requested 400 pulmonary fans. To date zero has arrived; the Veneto Region has requested a million protection suits; to date 1,000 have arrived. So we ask you to do well and do quickly. Everyone has to do theirs; the doctors are doing theirs, the cops are doing theirs, mayors and governors are doing theirs, we expect from the state and government health protection. And then don't go from the medical emergency to the social and economic emergency. I just got a piece of paper. How is Switzerland facing the economic emergency on its doorstep? With a paper, not with 13 decrees, 300 prohibitions and 600 pages to study, not even a job consultant can understand. The Swiss Confederation sends its entrepreneurs a sheet because it guarantees now, immediately, liquid money in the bank, 10 percent of last year's turnover with a roof of up to 500,000 euros and will do so for five years, with a sheet, to be filled out now. This is the model that we must follow. We ask you for courage, vision and foresight. The United Kingdom guarantees 80% of the salary to its workers; state guarantee. The United States of the deprecated Trump guarantees up to $2,000 per household. Right away, liquidity. I fear that with the decrees we are examining, if this money comes in a month, two or three months, people will leave the house, but not to thank, because if one doesn't have the money to go shopping, maybe a parent doesn't eat, but if he can't feed his son, the problem is there. We are trying to propose improvements. They're paying us for this. We are in opposition and I thank all the center-right because we have demonstrated a compactness that the country asked us for. We are making proposals, however, Mr President, we mean cooperation not as a polite listening once every fifteen days of what you are doing. If it takes co-workers, we work together; if you want spectators, then tell us. We continue to make proposals, but we would also like these proposals to be heard, because in the decrees (I understand haste and fury and midnight directs) there are obvious errors. On rents, I repeat, it's real life. The amendments that the League and the centre-right move forward come to us from traders, artisans and forgotten VAT consignments. In Italy there are 5 million self-employed, 5 million traders and entrepreneurs and 14 million private sector workers who have no certainty about the times. Is there gonna be money for the Integration Fund for everyone? You don't know. What are the delivery times? You don't know. Are the loans actually suspended? Has anyone in the government tried to call a bank to see the odyssey behind the rule of the decree-law? You don't know. Rents are suspended for shops, but not for offices, studios, warehouses or sheds. There's nothing for private rent. For absurdity, those who are looking at us now from a popular house in Milan, Turin, Rome or Naples must pay everything at the end of the month, because in the measure there is nothing for the rent of the private. I thank the Lombardy Region, which has put 30 million euros in order to help the tenants of the popular houses, that evidently, being at home for a month, do not have the money to pay the rent. Agriculture and fisheries are suffering very badly and have no certainty. Is it too much to ask for the suspension of tax obligations for at least the whole of 2020? I say this to friends of the PD: did you put in the decree the suspension of payments until 31 May, but does anyone seriously think that on 1 June millions of Italian workers and entrepreneurs can return to pay taxes? Let us give certainty to this country; not miracles, certainties. [[Applause]] The suspension of sector studies (the ISAs) for self-employed and self-employed people: it is clear that they will not be able to follow us. The money for the mayors. I heard the mayor of a municipality in Brescia, Torbole Casaglia, one of the many small Italian municipalities, from North to South, whose mayors are heroes: to do a funeral to their fellow citizens they had to collect, because the municipalities no longer have money. Do we allocate resources available to the mayors in the decree-law, to prevent the municipalities from blowing up and we can no longer collect even the garbage? In fact, we are now also risking the waste emergency, because the problem is that, thanks to all the "no" said in the past, there is a risk of the waste emergency in a little while. As long as it was possible to carry the Italian waste, in my opinion in a sense, in other countries of the world, there was no emergency; but now that we no longer take the waste, thanks to the gentlemen of the "no, we do not want the plants in Italy," we risk being submerged by the waste. This too should be mentioned in the decree-law. [[Applause]] A thought also to the many priests who are immolating themselves, in Bergamo, in Emilia-Romagna, in Tuscany, and who are going further. It is the border church, the village church, the mission church, the one that prefers not to be locked in a building, but to be among its people. There are dozens of priests dead. To them I think that the applause of this entire Senate Chamber should go [[Applause]] , because they are doing an extraordinary mission work alongside doctors; they cure souls, as others treat bodies. Two thoughts in closing. Allow me to thank President Draghi for his words, because the myth of "you can't do debt" has fallen. Today President Draghi told us that we can do debt, not for assistance, but to raise our income. Welcome, President Draghi; we need everyone's help and we also need your help. I am happy with this interview and I am happy with what may arise from this interview. [[Applause]] Today's lesson for our children, compared to what happened up to two months ago (cuts, cuts, cuts; close the hospital for the deficit, the 3% constraint, for the European rules and for austerity; close the schools, barracks), is that it was criminal choices: to close everything, to take away the right to life and health in the name of parameters decided in Brussels. Let me say that Italy is shining in recent weeks. The Italians are shining. Our citizens, 99%, are giving exceptional proof compared to Brussels where, probably, someone has not yet figured out what the air is. If the German Government is still talking about MES without conditions, which requires that the money be given to Italy, but must be repaid in the future, in the debt of our children, perhaps with a beautiful asset, well in Berlin and Brussels they did not understand anything. We find the pride of being Italian, the most beautiful country in the world. Thank you and I hope that this pride is of everyone and I hope that no one, in order to bring home two change from Europe today, will hypothesize the work, the future, the hope and saving of our children. We are there, not as spectators, because the Italians ask us this, but as protagonists. If help is required, we are already there and even more will be there. Don't be alone. That's all I'm asking: don't be alone. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, once in a while, as we also do on our part, admitting any mistake made would not be a sign of weakness, but of strength. Otherwise, we would not be commenting on 7.503 Italians dead, to whom our thoughts go. Good work to all [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u19	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you and the President-in-Office of the Council, the Ministers and colleagues. I return the institutional grace of my colleague Marcucci and I do it with pleasure, because in these places the form is not form: it is substance. And we must give a lot of substance to what we are doing here today and in the future. I thank you, Mr President, and I thank the Government for being here. It's important that you're here to inform us. It is important to us, but above all, it is important to the country, because this is the place where fundamental freedoms are protected. And this is the place that, when the emergency forces us to limit them, must say whether it is possible or not to do so. Mr President, you have told us these days that the next steps will restore the difficulty of communicating with Parliament that you have had in previous weeks. We appreciate that. You said that, within your decrees, it will be written that Parliament must deal with fundamental rights, individual freedoms and economic freedoms. But the Constitution says so, even before its decree. The Constitution says we all have to be here together to cooperate. We are here today, I would like to say it with great emotion, to do our duty, just as each citizen is doing his duty in trenches or forced into his own home. He is helping with his contribution, each for his own part, to keep this country together. I would like to join in the thanksgiving to those who, in the trenches, also leave a part of themselves. We've summoned them so many times. We've all summoned them, but we never do it enough. We're talking doctors, hospital staff, volunteer assistants, civil protection volunteers, armed forces, police forces. All those who keep the shops open and are on our roads to take care of us, our health, to make this period less difficult. I recommend, Mr President, and this is the first prayer we address to the Government: we must take care of them. This is the first of many, not suggestions, but points that are indispensable for us in our collaboration. We, Mr President, are here to cooperate. You don't have to challenge us. She said: I challenge you to. We do not want to be challenged. We want to work together, by means of "working with" collaboration. Collaborating means interacting, listening and collecting some of the indications that come from those who collaborate with you, not obeying. We cannot give you obedience. This is not part of a responsible and intelligent opposition force. Responsibility, at a time when we do not agree, leads to words of truth. We must be responsible, but not accomplices. That is why we say to you, Mr President, that the first measure that is essential for us: people who are currently moving in trenches and who are risking their lives and their health for all of us must be rewarded. It is not enough for 100 euros and for them to always be summoned as civil heroes. To give them a minimum of satisfaction for what they are doing takes much more. Mr President, you will have understood this these days: we, as a centre-right, are aware of the importance of being united in offering cooperation. This is a difficult time; it is an ugly, bad war; it is a trench war, a creeping war, which can only be fought by united forces. We are there, we never want to miss, but our presence is not a witness, but an active presence. Mr President, we can no longer look around and see people suffering, leaving us. You evoked a terrible image, which our fellow Senator Gallone from Bergamo sent us in a preview and which then all of Italy saw: trucks that left Bergamo full of coffins, because you could not even cremate the dead. We know that there are people who are leaving us without even the comfort of their loved ones, without being able to have a burial in their cities. We know that too many elders have left us deprived of a wealth of experience and wisdom. We must end this together - and I stress together, listening to each other - with all this. We cannot compromise also the future of our young people, because our young people are the ones who will take Italy by the hand and help it to recover. We are on these conditions, Mr President: that cooperation is not obedience and that responsibility is not a blank bill, because it would be complicity. You must listen to us, because we will only tell you the truth and make available to the Government - indeed, not to the Government, but to Italy - our solutions, our commitment, our seriousness, our professionalism. Let me give you an example. We have priorities: we have to get out of the health emergency. I listened carefully to what you said, to examine it, to the retrospective of your measures. We know them all, we read them all in the Official Journal. But beware of people: I didn't hear the word "tampon" from her. We all know that the emergency on personal protective equipment still exists. I appreciate what the government is trying to do, Minister Di Maio and all of you. We too, in our small, in our regions, with our knowledge, are trying to activate ourselves. But we must do more, because the longer the health emergency lasts, and the more unfortunately the economic heart of our country and our production categories is frozen. The second essential priority for us, for which we offer you, as we have done from January to today our solutions. Please look at them more carefully. We must seriously secure families, workers and businesses. We must have courage. Mario Draghi has been evoked many times today, but Mario Draghi is entitled to be evoked, because he is the person who saved the euro and who has a series of solutions in his pocket that we can, indeed we must share. We must have courage, we must graft powerful amounts of liquidity into the veins of our businesses and our citizens. Dragons has always told us that this is the solution and he has shown it to us. We must not be afraid of public debt, not now; we must not hesitate, not now, because hesitation is unfortunately an irreversible process; we no longer get out of it. We cannot ask those who are closed at home by the will of the State to pay deadlines or debts towards the State, public administrations and banks. Those who do not earn, those who do not produce income, those who do not earn must be certain that, until this emergency situation ends, they will be left in peace by the State, by Equitalia, by any creditor. That is what the state's guarantees must be about, that is what a state, a government and an opposition do, because we want to be part of this path, we adhere to this path. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We are an opposition that cares for the good of its own country. I quickly summarize: no deadlines, no debts, aid to VAT consignments; 600 euros one-off do not exist in kind, they cannot meet and meet the needs that mount from day to day. We must help them because when they go shopping - VAT matches and workers - they will not be able to tell the cashier that they are waiting for the 600 euros or that they are waiting for the integration fund. It takes money and money now. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Put them in the decree you want, Mr. President, but put them in. As regards aid to undertakings, the integration fund is a necessary but not sufficient condition. We need guarantees of credit, liquidity, war loans to companies, because if there are no employers, there are no workers and no jobs either. Aid to businesses! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And more: help to Italy, our strategic assets, our made in Italy. We do not want to be a land of conquest sprinkled by the vultures of the free market. We need our Made in Italy, our telecommunications, our energy, our banks and our insurances to be protected by a strong state. Mr President, you have understood this, we are here, Forza Italia there is, with its determination, with its ideas that have proved to be successful, with our solutions, not recipes: solutions. Here we are, here we are to raise a country that must have already present the vision and perspective of its restart. We must all be there to reach out to Italy and help it to recover. This country is extraordinary, wonderful, unique, inimitable and we must be there for our people, for our citizens, for Italy, so that we can succeed. We have to do this! We're gonna make it. Forza Italia is there, but, Mr President, we are a team: you have to pass the ball. If you pass the Forza Italia ball there is. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u21	Senator Perilli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u22	Mr President, for what I have to say, perhaps it is best that you stay here. Mr President, like everyone else, I have taken up the point of emphasis that you have given to the word responsibility. He's been remembered so many times. That to responsibility, among other things, is an appeal that also comes from the President of the Republic. Well, I, with the same intention, can say - and my colleagues who know me can confirm - that responsibility is one of my basic principles, but hypocrisy is not. Among other things, Mr President, when there is a direct, but also when there is no, I want our words, which are then reported, to be clear, sincere and directed to the hearts of people. I cannot hide, Mr President, that what is happening in these classrooms and also in other places of work is not the reality that emerges from the statements that have just been made by the oppositions, as they do not correspond to what I have heard from the statements made on television. I think you know well how to distinguish the controversy from the aggressiveness and the reality. I will put it in the form of a question, so perhaps it will be clearer: Senator Rauti, on behalf of her Group, said that the Group of Brothers of Italy is responsible and cooperative with the Government, or that it wants to be. Then I wonder if it is responsible to say on television, as your political leader Meloni did, that you are a criminal? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is he responsible, in the midst of an emergency, when the government is deciding what measures to take, to interpret the actions of the government itself as very serious and criminal? He's not responsible for me because he's giving himself a message that's not real. [[Senator Rauti's comments.]] I am also referring here to Senator Salvini, who says: "Don't do it yourself." Then I ask Senator Salvini what help he has come to you, in these months, if not propaganda statements [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] , which insisted that Parliament did not work and that we did nothing when its senators, like Senator Bagnai, were writing in the posts that were working in the Commission. If we are to be consistent, we must be consistent, because this is not to make controversy, but to give correct information to those who are listening to us. It is obvious that there is a moment for thanksgiving, there is a moment when we are united, because I challenge anyone, in the face of a tragedy like the one we are experiencing, to have different sensibilities, but one cannot fail to notice the difference in behavior, because having responsibility means having to defend, in hindsight, with that analysis that will come next, the behaviors of now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, we are not all the same and we are not all saying the same things. There are people out there who want to know what's going on and they don't want to be told things that aren't. This is our obligation, so if you file a bill, as you have done, ladies and gentlemen, for the removal of the balance of the budget from the Constitution, you must also explain to me why you approved this rule at the time it was adopted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have to explain it to the people out here. Colleagues, in the four readings you voted in favour three times and, in the fourth vote, in the Senate you abstained, but there were three approvals, by people sitting in this House. There must be a congruence in what is said, at a time of responsibility and tension, so that it may be credible. In the same way, it is not even credible to challenge two fundamental things now, Mr President, for which I thank you. The first is transparency. It has been said that there are countries that have hidden, or have supposedly hidden, evidence of the spread of the virus and you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, immediately, with a very rapid response, put on an organization to provide and react, which goes from the Health Task Force, to the Ministry of Health, to civil protection, to respond to this emergency. Who says now that everything has to be closed, before he said that everything had to be opened. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Senator Salvini, don't you remember, after Codogno, when he was saying it was necessary to open? Now he says we have to close. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Do you remember when he went around Milan, in shopping centres and businesses, saying that we had to open everything? [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Senator Salvini, I'm telling you because you're a monument to incoherence. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Colleagues, I can pretend that we all think the same way, but I'm not pretending to think the same way. [[Comments from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] These are evidences, which have passed historically and some of you can't show up here... [[Reiterate protests from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u23	I don't think this is the time for controversy. We talked about collaboration and then let's lower our tones, please! [[Reiterate protests from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Please, Senator Perilli. Mr. President, I'm saying this because on these... [[Live comments from PD, M5S, FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rauti, sit down! Mr Perilli (M5S). Senator Rauti, if you could delete what Mr Meloni said, perhaps... but you can't do that and so you remain in the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please! Mr Perilli (M5S). I think now, in front of... [[Lively protests from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Colleagues! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Keep your masks and stop yelling! [[Applause from the FI-BP-UDC Group]] Colleagues, before an action, which provides... [[Feedback from L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and PD Groups.]] Colleagues, please! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If I have to interrupt the work of the Assembly, Tell me. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u24	I will continue my speech, Mr President, because - as I said - I would not like two different messages to be given. It is indisputable that what we are saying here is to be cooperative and responsible, but dear Senator Salvini, when you came here you dictated conditions and made a list. He didn't say these decrees could have flaws. On five decrees you did not make a relief or a system observation, but simply relied on some aspects such as the lack of some sanitary equipment, some sanitary devices in one hospital compared to another and did not even in any way evaluate the government action, which must be properly communicated. That is what I say to my colleagues: there is no kind of exploitation. It is no different, because if you say here, Senator Quagliariello, that Parliament is working and outside you are participating in the broadcasts and you say that Parliament is not working, you do not get proper information. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is an act of loyalty, I am proposing a pact of true loyalty, of collaboration, without inventing themes that do not lead to political passages. Do you know why we vote on the calendar? Because he didn't agree to discuss only the Covid-19, only the decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Every time we have to vote on the calendar because someone needs to take the political steps and then let's tell them these things, because they are good, because it's reality, it's sincerity, it's not losing contact with people and giving them proper information. Controversies and quarrels are not good for anyone, but I cannot fail to point out the differences in vision and action that are emerging at this moment, outside this Parliament, because the President of the Council, maintaining national unity, trying to work tirelessly with everyone, without excluding anyone - and I can say this and you cannot say it - has had to endure being beaten up by continuous, improper insults, such as what I have mentioned. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do I hurt to remember this, colleagues? Isn't that a call to responsibility? Is this not a reference to Parliament? With regard to Minister Di Maio, for example, the lack of masks has been mentioned, but not a word has been said about what has been done to find millions of masks abroad and do you know what happened without the customs office providing (later fortunately provided)? That the other states would take them. Isn't this an action that honors your idea of a country? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm not the one breaking this partnership agreement, but I have to say things as they are, frankly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u25	Senator Perilli, speak to me, to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u26	Mr Perilli (M5S). I'm addressing you. As far as the European speech is concerned, we have always said - I am addressing you, President - that the use of the ESM is to be excluded, so we are happy, indeed we are happy if we find instruments. For us the objective is that of the ECB's increasing purchase of government bonds, but that it is not a solution within the "MES house," because surely the conditionality that this mechanism will propose will determine the restructuring of our securities and the conditions unacceptable to us and this for us is to be avoided. We are therefore pleased that reference is made to the Eurobonds, but that they are from the perspective that we have always defended the solidarity and help of the states included in the European budget. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why, Mr President, I would ask you to allow the content of these measures, of this and of the next decree, which runs mainly on the four axes of health, work, assistance, and the search for help for the categories that are now in difficulty, to be communicated in the correct dimension of what it provides. There will be another decree, there will be other measures, the President-in-Office of the Council also said that they are not enough - and we are aware of this - but we will go in that direction. If we are all called, we must all respond in the same way, but I said what I thought. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u27	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u28	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address on my own behalf and on behalf of the whole House a thought of closeness and deep condolences to all those who have been affected in these tragic days in the most dearest affections. Their pain is the pain of the whole nation. In a few weeks the number of people who died after having contracted the coronavirus has grown in a frightening way, but even more dramatic are the news that tell of how the evolution of the disease is such that death comes without the comfort of their loved ones or the possibility to give them a final greeting. I am thinking of the dismay of those who have lost a parent, a grandfather, a spouse, a relative or even a friend and have not had the opportunity to celebrate their funeral and bury their coffin. I think of the many Italians who have contracted the virus and lost their lives while they were committed to assisting the sick or providing essential services. Their sacrifice, their example, must remain imprinted in our memory of people and people. It is out of respect for so much suffering, it is to overcome the horror of a death that day after day has lost the traits of human piety that the institutions have the duty to engage with even greater determination, courage and resolve to bring Italy out of the emergency. We have asked citizens for rigour, a sense of responsibility, important human, social, economic and working sacrifices; now is the time not to leave them alone; now is the time to make the institutions feel concretely that they are there and that they are at their side. There are no words to thank our doctors, nurses, researchers, priests, law enforcement forces, volunteers, along with all those on the front line every day to get us out of the emergency. Their commitment is the most beautiful expression of the spirit, generosity and vital energy of our country. I therefore hope that our work today and in the coming days will take place in a climate of strong cooperation and open and constructive dialogue between all political forces and between Parliament and the Government. This is what we owe to the memory of our dead. We owe this to the best interest in the health and safety of all Italians. I urge the House to observe a minute's silence by holding back the pain of families and all our citizens. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u29	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to address a heartfelt thought of mourning and closeness to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Victoria Francesca Maria Bogo Deledda. A woman of lively intelligence and great sensitivity, Vittoria Bogo Deledda has always demonstrated in her professional activity, as well as in her political commitment, of strong attention to the world of culture and socialism, of those who are weaker, of those who are in situations of difficulty; an attention that has also distinguished her parliamentary activity, making herself the promoter of legislative designs in matters of home care, minimum wage, protection of natural goods. With her premature death, the Senate loses a woman of great human qualities, always open to dialogue and constructive confrontation, a strong woman who, until the illness gave her the opportunity, has never failed her commitment and her passion for the ideals in which she believed; an example for the institutions and for the whole community. Invitation to a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u32	FENU (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of all my colleagues, particularly those from Sardinia who will not intervene in view of the extraordinary situation in which this sitting takes place, I would like to remind you today of my colleague, Senator Victoria Bogo Deledda, who left us after a long and painful illness on 17 March. I met Vittoria for the first time during the election campaign of February 2018 in Sardinia, but it was right among the benches of the Senate, in Rome, and on the trips between Sardinia and Rome that I appreciated the human qualities. Victory was a woman of value, cultured and generous who didn't like to talk about herself so much. I had a sense of her qualities when she offered to help me in a time of difficulty. He wanted to listen to me and advise me because he wanted to do it, because he knew how to do it, because he had done it for others all his life. Vittoria worked for many years as head of social services of the municipality where she lived. The normal working time was not enough to listen to and satisfy all people's requests for help; it also received them at home outside working hours, until late in the evening. He listened to their problems and worked hard to offer them help, very often by personal means, and praying to those who received his help to maintain their confidence. He always did it until the last moment. A few days before she died - a few days ago - during the current medical emergency she had asked her husband to buy a computer for a family with young children who had to follow the teacher's lessons on teleconference distance and had no tools to do so. I learned, after his death, other stories, similar to this, of human, moral and economic support to people in difficulty. He also had an innate and strong sense of justice that he tried to decline in his daily action. This character, together with the working situations that he experienced and which involved intense emotional involvement, moral responsibilities and very high stress, made known to Victoria the Burnout syndrome, a terrible psychophysical discomfort that forced him to get away from his work; a discomfort that later, once elected in the Senate, was brutally trivialized and unjustly exploited in an ignoble media campaign. Victoria managed to overcome that attack from which, perhaps, we did not protect her sufficiently and continued her parliamentary activity by carrying out her ideas and her intentions with dedication and competence in her territory and in the Senate. Shortly before his last speech in the Chamber, on 3 July 2018, he had learned of the disease that would have accompanied him until 17 March. Despite this, he did not want to give up his speech. He wanted to talk about his land he loved, or about the improper industrial colonialism he left in the island employment and environmental rubble and the self-referential activity of the politicians who created this degradation. He wanted to affirm his will not to endorse any more predatory actions on Sardinia. Senator Victoria Bogo Deledda was all this, but also poetess and a kind, private and decent woman. Dear Victoria, I'm sorry you had so little time to show Parliament and the country your human value. You showed it to all the people who knew you and who did good, who will keep your sweet memory forever. The Senate loses a good senator, your land loses a real Sardinian. May all our closeness and affection come to your family and loved ones. Hi, Vittoria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u33	The Conference of Leaders, meeting yesterday, established that the discussion of the decree-law on measures to strengthen the National Health Service and economic support for families, workers and enterprises related to the epidemiological emergency from coronavirus begins on Wednesday 8 April. Amendments to the Assembly should be tabled no later than 7.30 p.m. on Friday 27 March. Next week, which will be dedicated to the work of the Budget Commission on this measure, the Assembly will meet on Wednesday 1 April, at 9.30 a.m., for an information of the Minister of Health on the initiatives within the competence of the Ministry of Health to address the epidemiological emergency of the Covid-19. The Conference of Leaders also agreed that, during the work of the Assembly, in order to ensure the maintenance of the safe distance, the senators will also be able to find a place in the stands according to the instructions of the quaestors and groups senators. Finally, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide is authorised to meet today.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u36	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as a Lega Group, in conjunction with the Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia Groups, we have an alternative proposal for the calendar, and not because - as some people have said - we would like to talk not only about the emergency but also about other issues, but also because we remember that, in addition to the health emergency, there is also an economic emergency. And we have recently heard, again this morning, the President-in-Office of the Council discuss the fact that the most appropriate instruments are being considered in Europe to deal with this economic emergency. And just this morning we heard the accent on some instruments that need to be rethought, revised and studied and in recent days we have read statements by the President of the Council on the concrete hypothesis for Italy to ask to be able to use the European stability mechanism. Now, since yesterday was also said by Angela Merkel's spokesman that basically the conditionality is those and should not be changed, because our Government wants to use this instrument, after all the political question that has been made of it in the last few months before the emergency, we consider it absolutely essential and necessary that the President of the Count Council comes to the Chamber not to make an information, but to give communications. Summoning Parliament's role is not just to think that the President of the Council or some Minister come every fifteen days to give us an information that then risks being interpreted as a summary of the previous episodes of the telenovela nicknamed "The Decree-Law". We believe it is right for Parliament to give an act of direction, because its role is not only to make laws, but also to give acts of direction to the Government. The proposal is therefore very clear and simple and we would have expected, among other things, from those who continue to talk about a climate of cooperation, that in this House we could discuss with resolutions and votes and direct the government on the instrument that Parliament considers the best to deal with the economic situation and the crisis today. That is what we have asked quietly, that is, simple communications, and not to talk about anything else, but the answer on this very important issue has been that we do not talk about it. We agree with all the information to discuss the decree-law within the deadlines you have proposed, i.e. by 8 April. And we are truly willing to cooperate: the testimony came at a time when, even in the face of the more than 2,000 requests made by trade associations, citizens and many others who have pointed out the need to table amendments, we had to try to reduce them to 200 in order to give some priorities. The answer that has been given to us is that, in doing so, we are obstructing. Let us be clear: what does it mean to cooperate? Does that mean that from the opposition we must always shut up and continue to say yes to your proposals and your decrees? Or is there also the possibility of criticizing the Government when it is necessary to do so? In the face of such an important fact as the use of European Union instruments to secure resources for our citizens, will Parliament have the right or not to speak with a sacrosanct address? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] Keep in mind that many members of the Movimento 5 Star Group have confirmed this today and the Holding Company itself told the President of the Council that the ESM is not the best instrument. In order to say this, it is not necessary to tell him here - we have seen, among other things, that the President-in-Office of the Council, as we say to him, nevertheless takes his own path, regardless of the proposals we are making, but we need a political act. Forgive me, but I say this without any controversy: a President-in-Office of the Council who has no popular legitimacy, because he has not even been elected, necessarily needs a parliamentary mandate to discuss a fundamental issue that is likely to seriously mortgage the future of our country. That's the truth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] So here is a serious and quiet proposal, but you have responded negatively to it. We will vote on the timetable and you will take this responsibility, bearing in mind that you are really against common sense, which I know is evoked by many of you, at least with regard to the proposal that we at the League have made together with the whole centre-right. Before concluding, I only take advantage of this to welcome, as a Lega Group, Senator Valeria Alessandrini, who was elected to the supplementary elections in Terni College and has basically taken the place of former Senator Donatella Tesei, today President of the Umbria Region.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u37	I too would like to welcome, on behalf of the whole House, as well as my own staff, Senator Alessandrini, wishing her a good job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u40	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I only speak to explain the meaning of our vote on the timetable. Last week we asked - as my colleague Mr Romeo also mentioned - for President Conte's presence in Parliament, because this presence is not a random event that he gives us bountifully. This is where the government must express the meaning of its action. This is where the control and improvement of Parliament over the acts of the Government is exercised, and above all it is here that it is clear whether the acts of the Government have an economic and financial basis. Last week all the oppositions - my fellow Group leaders and you, President, are witnesses - asked: since the government already tells us that there is no money on the decree that we will go to approve on 8 April; since we think it absolutely essential that the government, in order to make us understand that it is working seriously, next week makes a deviation of another 50 billion to make sure that families, workers and businesses have what it is promising and that we want them to have; whereas it will be necessary to put another 25 billion on this crisis, because unfortunately it will not end in April - we know, the Italians know, and we must reassure and put them in safety - place all this, we are all equally aware that we do not save ourselves, we do not save ourselves only with the Italian money and our money that we have put into Europe must finally be put to fruit. All the members of the European club are also in difficulty, unfortunately - and I say this with great regret - from Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom. And for those who still remain in the European club, the European countries either save themselves together or Europe will lose not only consensus, but also and above all role. All of this, we know that there is a toolbox going from the European Central Bank, which seems to go in the right direction after some hesitation cost us a few billion euros and a few small gaffes from President Lagarde, cost us a few billion euros. Thank God we got it right. Given that there is the European Investment Bank that can leverage and multiplier the purchase of sovereign debt securities and the guarantees that we must give to our companies to guarantee the work and carry out the prophecy of Gualtieri, according to which no one must lose his job because of the Coronavirus; because there is the famous ESM - the fund saves States, the piggy bank of the Member States of the European Union in which we all put money - and that we will all need a pro-quota of a portion of the money put: compared to all this European instrument and the need for funds in Italy, tell the President of the Council what he intends to do. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We thought it was a very legitimate question. To this the majority responded with a non possumus and the government said that there are no conditions. President Conte was here until five minutes ago. Why did you not accept our proposal last week? It was a very sensible proposal on which - I repeat - all the actions and programming of the government from now on are based because, if there is no money, it is just facts and not words. We can't afford that. That is why we asked for a vote on the calendar on which Forza Italia will abstain. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u43	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am surprised that today the first gesture after the President-in-Office's parliamentary passage is to divide us on the timetable. The reason for the division on the calendar is that some groups were strongly calling at the Conference of Leaders for the presence of President Conte, who actually informed Parliament correctly this morning not only about the health emergency, but also about the economic framework and the initiatives he is taking at European level. I'm having a hard time understanding. My speech a few minutes ago had the spirit of calling everyone to cooperation and a sense of responsibility. It has been decided to highlight, in reality, on an objectively marginal matter such as the timetable, a political need for division and distinction; I frankly understand this very little. I believe that the country must be united alongside its own government at such a difficult time. However, I take note of the situation. The Democratic Party and all the majority forces will vote with a sense of responsibility for the timetable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u46	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, in these days, as proof of the sense of responsibility and cooperation that oppositions have shown in every circumstance and occasion, we have participated in endless meetings and conferences of the Leaders, some even preceded by informal meetings, precisely in order to try to resolve some nodes ranging from voting arrangements in this House to the question of amendments and more political issues. Brothers of Italy, at the Conference of Leaders held yesterday, joined and supported the proposal drawn up by the oppositions to ask President Conte to make communications in the Chamber (not an information) that had as their object the ESM (the fund saves States), the economic measures contained in the successive measures - those that we will then discuss in April - and the economic resources that we plan to allocate. A few hours later President Conte in the Chamber indicated a figure but, while we were debating, this had not yet happened. In any case, we also need to know what economic commitment we are going to put in this operation, which will take a long time, and what our talks with Europe are. After yesterday's statements by Chancellor Merkel on the ESM and after Holland's position was taken the day before, we consider this to be a fundamental and not marginal issue of any political approach and discussion, as well as economic, on the whole of the immense issue that concerns Italy and Europe. I do not intend to make a second speech here, but I think it is important to stress our request for communications from President Conte, who - I should like to be clear - do not coincide with that appointment which President-in-Office of the Council set every fifteen days with the Chambers - which we naturally welcome - which is not the same thing. That is why we defined and insisted on this proposal yesterday. I also want to say, with regard to the attitude of Brothers of Italy in terms of discussion in the Commission, that the Government must also understand that, beyond the fact that we are seeking a meeting point, we have incardinated in that forum a measure that leaves no room for any economic manoeuvre. Therefore, all the amendments will not find room, unless they replace others. Here again, the request we have made is for the Government to commit itself - a commitment that is official - to transform some of the amending proposals into agendas that commit the Government and can become measures to be included in the subsequent measures. I would also like to say that on our part there has never been, nor will there ever be, a obstructive attitude, which would be in this moment of killing, which does not belong to us and does not belong to the love we have towards the nation. It is a question not of obstructionism, but of giving answers to the territories and to the many requests that have been received - as I imagined to all - to fill a decree that - one must say - is a first measure, a first step. We also expect to know what is planned for the next and, above all, after the first emergency step, what is the vision, the perspective, the project towards which we are going for the rebirth of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u47	I put to the vote a proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings, concerning President Conte's communications on the ESM on the planning of economic measures, both with Europe and with Italy, made by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Rauti. (Some senators vote from the tribune of the first order, right side, in the presence of Senator Secretary Nisini and the tribune of the second order, right side, in the presence of Senator Secretary Durnwalder). It's not approved. I am suspending the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.02 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u48	The next item is the report by the Minister for Education on initiatives to continue the current school year. I call the Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spread of the coronavirus epidemic has given rise to a health emergency of global importance. Since the first cases of infection in our country, through the adoption of the necessary measures with provisions to combat the emergency, the Government has intended to make choices, all weighted and very painful, aimed at containing as much as possible the particularly diffusive character of the epidemic on the national territory. We have faced and are facing as a country, as a national community, particularly hard days. This emergency has not only resulted in the necessary disruption of our habits in order to contain the contagions and for the good of all, but also forces us, every day, to deal with the pain of serious losses in terms of human lives. I strongly cling to the whole country, to those who have suffered mourning and, in particular, to the communities, to the citizens of Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia Romagna, who are the most affected regions. I would like to thank the school communities in these areas, which, despite their disappointment at the losses suffered, have continued to react. There the school not only did not stop, but also supported its students and students from an emotional point of view. The kids will be proud of you and they'll remember you for all of this. He wrote Boccaccio in "Decamerone" describing the plague: And let's forget that one citizen was disgusting and almost no neighbor had any other cure. These are words that many will have reread in these hard times, words that fortunately describe historical moments and attitudes that are profoundly different. In fact, our national community is showing itself to be strong and supportive, and a huge, due thank you goes of course to the health staff who every day, in the front line, fights an invisible enemy, for us and at our side. I would also like to thank the Civil Protection Department for the tireless work and support it is offering to the Ministry and schools. Everyone, thank you. A quick review of the measures taken so far should be carried out in advance by means of the measures - decrees and decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers - issued to contain the serious epidemiological emergency with specific reference to the national education system. In reverse temporal order, Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, published yesterday in the Official Journal, provides in general that restrictive measures may be adopted for certain periods of not more than thirty days, which may be repeated and amended. Among the measures adopted, the decree-law provides for the suspension of all educational and school services, stops the possibility of carrying out distance activities and the suspension of educational trips. It also provides for the limitation of the physical presence of employees in administrative offices and provides for the limitation or suspension of competition procedures, without prejudice to the possibility of issuing invitations to tender. He then urged employers to set up agile working arrangements. Already Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 provided that, during the suspension of educational and school services, public administrations provide individual services, using the available staff already employed in such services and dependent on private entities operating in agreement, concession or contract. The same decree-law provided for schools to equip themselves with materials for the extraordinary cleaning of premises, as well as personal protective and hygiene equipment. In this regard, I can announce that I signed this morning the Ministerial Decree allocating resources to school institutions for a total of EUR 43.5 million. There is more: the aforementioned decree-law provided - as I mentioned in other passages of my speech - for a specific appropriation of EUR 85 million for the year 2020, in order to allow school institutions to immediately equip themselves with all the useful tools for distance learning and the less well-off students to benefit from it. It has also regulated how to purchase the platforms and devices necessary for distance learning. In addition, the Ministry of Education still allocates financial resources to state educational institutions for short and occasional supplementary contracts. Again: with Decree-Law No 9 of 2 March 2020 we have guaranteed the taking of service of school workers, already LSU, in the territories affected by the emergency so as not to prejudice in any way the process of internalization of these workers. We have made sure that to the suspension of the travels and initiatives of instruction, confirmed by decree-law n. 19, they apply what previewed from article 41, paragraph 4, of the legislative decree 23 May 2011 n. 79, in order to the right of withdrawal of the traveler before the beginning of the package of travel, as well as article 1463 of the civil code, previewing that the refund can be carried out also through the issue of a voucher of equal amount to use within a year from the issue. Another highly significant measure in the measure in question is also the conservation of the validity of the school year 2019-2020. Article 32 of Decree-Law No 9 states: "If the educational institutions of the national education system cannot carry out at least two hundred days of lessons following the containment measures of the Covid-19, the school year 2019-2020 shall still remain valid by way of derogation from the provisions of Article 74 of Legislative Decree No 297 of 16 April 1994. We also agreed that the time limits for the validity of training and probation periods for staff of school institutions and for the recognition of seniority should also be reduced proportionally. In addition to the urgency decree mentioned above, several decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM) have integrated the regulatory framework necessary to address the emergency situation, including with regard to education. It is good to highlight, albeit succinctly, some fundamental passages. In particular, the DPCM of 22 March 2020 confirms the suspension of school services until 3 April 2020 and applies mutatis mutandis to the provisions of the DPCM of 11 March 2020, as well as those of the Ordinance of the Minister of Health of 20 March 2020, whose time limits of effectiveness, already set at 25 March 2020, are extended to 3 April 2020. The DPCM of 4 March 2020 provided for the suspension of education services for children, educational activities in schools of all levels, the frequency of school activities and higher education activities throughout the country until 15 March 2020. Already on that occasion it had been foreseen that, throughout the duration of the suspension, the school leaders would activate methods of distance teaching. However, these forecasts, together with those contained in the DPCM of 23 and 25 February and 1 March 2020, ceased to have effect on 8 March 2020, as provided for in Article 5 of the DPCM of 8 March 2020, which extended and generalized until 3 April the suspension of educational services and any other related profile. Therefore, as emerges from this brief regulatory survey, in such a difficult situation the Government had to make important and complex choices, preventing, at the present time, the presence at school of students, their families and teachers and reducing the presence of administrative, technical and auxiliary staff (ATA) and school managers, limiting it to activities considered indifferent. That's to contain the contagion. I would like to make one fundamental point clear: we will return to school if and when, on the basis of what the health authorities have established, conditions will allow it. However, education service is an essential public service, constitutionally guaranteed. For this reason we immediately urged the activation of forms of distance teaching, with the aim of guaranteeing the right to study, but also and above all - I would like to say - the closeness to our students and our families. It is an obligatory choice in my opinion: we have no alternative if we want to be next to our students. I was just saying that the coronavirus health emergency, as you know, has a global impact, but this also applies to school. More than three quarters of the world's student population is affected by this crisis. This is a frightening number: 1.5 billion students around the world are not going to school right now. This is an unprecedented challenge that we must take up and we are doing it as a country, in conjunction with the European Union and UNESCO. Many European countries - it is useless to hide it - are more equipped than we are with regard to technological infrastructure, yet these days I have been repeatedly called into question by my counterparts for information on how Italy is operating. I remember that in our country, there were 8.3 million children who could not access school buildings and needed answers. Since the first moments of the health emergency we have moved to intervene. The Ministry activated, on February 27, a page with all the information for the school on the emergency coronavirus, with sections dedicated to the consultation of the norms, to the frequent questions and with useful links for the health aspects. Then, on March 2nd, we opened a web page dedicated to distance learning, offering free access to dedicated platforms, to webinars for staff, teachers and managers (realized in collaboration with the INDIRE, the institute that does educational research in the country) and useful materials for the lessons. We have also activated public calls for all operators ready to support us with computer systems and devices. On 18 March we further expanded this work by including a section for distance school inclusion, in support of the teaching that is very important for children with disabilities. From the beginning of this work we have recorded a competition of solidarity and operational generosity among all the schools of the country, among teachers, ATA staff, school leaders and among the same pupils. Through professional networks, social media and school sites we have registered thousands of willingness to carry out concrete interventions and actions by schools that wanted to make themselves available to other schools. Faced with a situation of great delicacy that has no precedent in republican history and that has gradually transformed, for some territories in particular, into a real humanitarian tragedy, the school has responded and is still responding in a solid and cohesive way, demonstrating a sense of belonging, a sense of responsibility and an unprecedented willingness to operate in emergency. In the immediate management of the emergency a lot of operating energies have been solicited throughout the national territory. In a few days a special area was created on the Ministry's website through which the schools found the first answers to the most common questions regarding the new organizational procedures to be adopted in emergency and they were able to access a section designed specifically to allow in the most diverse forms and measures to carry out distance teaching contesting the needs of the less equipped territories at the technological level, with the very high competence of other areas of Italy, where instead the best innovative resources are placed. We are also aware that one of the critical issues concerns the ability to access the Network, which in some parts of the country is lacking. For this reason I thank the Minister for technological innovation and digitalization Pisano, who has put in place a project of digital solidarity to encourage operators in the sector to offer free connection to their subscribers and therefore also to teachers, students and families. In order to cope with the health emergency, special assistance interventions have been activated, thanks to the ministerial task force for educational emergencies, that are carried out in the daily relationship with all schools and families through concrete actions, among which it seems important to mention the psychological support actions aimed at students, teachers and families in order to overcome the difficulties that have occurred with the emergence of the emergency. We have felt the duty to intervene at different levels. By means of a special ministerial note, No 388 of 17 March 2020, we have considered to guide schools by systematizing how much in their full autonomy they had achieved since the beginning of the emergency, with the aim to bring back all the experiences and activities carried out in a context of full legal and administrative sustainability and to guarantee, as far as possible, uniformity in the didactic action, also with a view to the complete expensibility of activities carried out at a distance for the purposes of the validity of the school year. All schools enjoy autonomy guaranteed by the Constitution. Each has faced the emergency by reacting in its own way, who more courageously, who with more uncertainties, and every institutional reaction - believe me - we have understood and supported it precisely because it surely comes from the requests of the territories, the pupils and their families. The principle that moves us, from the first moment, is to make sure that nothing - but nothing at all - of how laboriously realized by Italian teachers from the break-up of the emergency can be lost because maybe it does not correspond to a code of conduct already known or experienced; differently, we intend to value it and not lose it, make it a wealth and, if possible, an element that tells us the growth of our students in a complex moment like what we are living. Thus, keeping this principle firmly within the abovementioned ministerial note, we have suggested and clarified, simplifying to the maximum for reasons of opportunity, what is meant by distance teaching activities, indicating the valid tools, methodologies, but above all the elements necessary for an activity to be considered teaching to all effects: the teaching-pupil interaction that accompanies the construction of knowledge, but which also gives meaning and answer to the existential questions that pupils, especially the youngest, pose in a context in which they directly and indirectly collect signals that disorient them; the measures that educational institutions, in compliance with the relevant legislation, if they have not already done so, must adopt to ensure the right to privacy of students and families; a series of actions aimed at removing the design of the activities of the beginning of the year on the basis of the new and current needs, adapting them to the teaching at a distance, if possible without becoming a further burden on the families; the coordination actions that schools, through the individual and second-class councils, have developed in order to be informed of the activities with special needs of the pupils with disabilities, including them with disabilities with such disabilities, with disabilities, including them with disabilities for the teaching at home, without becoming additional to the different conditions to the different families; the schools, through the schools, through the individual and the needs of classes in order to be taught to be taught in particular needs of education, and to be in the needs of the needs of education in particular to be completed in particular to be in particular to be carried in particular, with special needs of education. In addition, we will shortly activate a dedicated service at national level of remote help desks, in support of school institutions. All indications given are already principles firmly embodied in the school system. It was not the medical emergency that made the importance of the teacher-pupil relationship assert, as well as the common feeling of school inclusion, the design of teaching activities consistent with the context and the need to evaluate the entire journey of pupils and not just the individual performance. These are elements that have existed for decades in school practice, built on established scientific evidence that for years have been the subject of reflection and deepening and that today, due to the current emergency, they acquire even more value and seem to us, perhaps for the first time, really so important. The conceptual and concrete configuration of distance activity is a challenge and at the same time an opportunity, in which we too feel called at the forefront. We feel a strong responsibility to respond to the expectations that society as a whole places towards the school, as an essential outpost of the State present in the territories, especially if marginal, and as a fundamental support garrison. In order to better direct resources to the most lacking areas of the country of digital devices and connectivity has been arranged a monitoring of the individual schools in continuous updating, thanks to which we have proposed to know how they have reacted to the emergency with distance teaching, what resources have been activated, how many classes, how many pupils involved, if they have received help from other schools or if instead the help has provided it. Below are some data collected (and I stress that, despite the period of serious difficulty in managing the emergency, 93 percent of Italian schools answered the question with which the monitoring was carried out). 67 per cent of the schools that have activated the distance activity provide for specific forms of evaluation. At present, more than 6.7 million pupils are reached by means other than distance learning activities. 89 per cent of schools have prepared specific activities and materials for pupils with disabilities; 84 per cent have prepared specific activities and materials for pupils with DSA; 68 per cent have prepared specific activities and materials for pupils with special educational needs (non-certified BES; 48 per cent of schools have held meetings of colleges at a distance. As already mentioned, with Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020 we have identified specific resources, amounting to 85 million euros for the year 2020, devoting 10 million euros to the endowment or strengthening of digital platforms and tools for distance learning in schools; 70 million euros to make available to the less well-off students - I would like to emphasize - individual digital devices in convenient use for the use of learning platforms and to ensure network connectivity in the territories where it is lacking or missing. We have repeated it several times and I repeat it: no student must remain behind because of the digital divide, that is the network infrastructure differences between the territories. There are also EUR 5 million for the training of school staff on methodologies and techniques for distance teaching. We have also considered that the schools of the first cycle of education often do not have competent technical staff to deal with the problems related to the management of new technologies, so we decided - at a time when digital skills make the difference - to make available to these schools a thousand new IT technical assistants (profilo so far previewed only for secondary schools of second degree) with the task to ensure the functionality of the computer instrumentation provided to the institutions and to support teachers and pupils in the use of distance learning platforms. During today's morning I signed an implementing ministerial decree with which, identified the criteria, we are proceeding to allocate resources among school institutions, with particular attention to ensuring that the 70 million euros for digital devices and connectivity more intercept the needs of schools with school population in socio-economic situations of greater deprivation, therefore more in need of digital devices for distance teaching to be given in convenient use to students. Consistent with the regulatory dictation, I did not want any rainy allocation of resources. In fact, not only the number of students has been taken into account, but also and above all their socio-economic condition in order to support in terms of substantial equality those who need them most, in the maximum respect of article 3, paragraph 2 of our Constitution. In the same decree, moreover, the procedures for the allocation of the additional organic endowment of technical IT assistants directly to the regional school offices are provided for, then to be allocated to regional schools. This system, which embodies the principle of vertical subsidiarity well, will allow administrations living in the territories, and therefore more aware of their needs, to manage and exploit these additional human resources in order to ensure the functionality of the computer instrumentation as well as the support to the use of distance learning platforms, in order to achieve the maximum functionality of the educational institutions of the first cycle of education. In addition to the €85 million we have also allocated €8.2 million to support the incredible support work that in this moment of unprecedented crisis are carrying out digital animators of school institutions: strategic figures for the dissemination of innovation at school, never as now called to promote among colleagues knowledge and training about the new multimedia teaching methodologies. We have also guaranteed, with the so-called Italian Order of Care, Article 121, the first measures to promote the continuing employment of teachers and technical, administrative and auxiliary staff (ATA) with a fixed-term contract, to which we have granted the natural right to extend the contract, even if it had come to a natural end during the period of medical emergency, to guarantee the fundamental and essential right to education and in order to strengthen the distance teaching activity. As repeated several times, we work to ensure that no one loses their jobs because of Covid-19. One of the greatest challenges remains to continue talking to families, who daily ask us to take account of our work and whom I warmly thank. Allow me, in this regard, a little reflection that I really care about very much. To speak of responsibility and demand responsibility on the part of all in this dramatic situation also means to work seriously on the information that conveys to the country. Forcing interpretations, forwarding unverified messages, anticipating content without any official source, and even - this has happened too - producing consciously false materials, with a ministerial logo, is an irresponsible way of working. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] It is the way to create uncertainty and alarm at a citizenship that is already suffering enough. This is clearly an appeal to everyone: let us all feel responsible and responsible. A situation like the current one requires a reversal of the logics, even of the communicative ones. As a Ministry we are committed to providing families with timely and always up-to-date information. Families call for solutions on the end of the school year and indications on student evaluation. For this reason, the Ministry is already at work and we are preparing all the necessary measures to intervene, also in derogation from the current regulatory provisions, in the matter of: intermediate and final evaluation of students; methods of recovering learning; requirements for access and structure of state examinations for the first and second cycles of education and redefinition of the national school schedule and regional calendars in compliance with the prerogatives of the Regions. As far as the state exams are concerned, we have repeatedly stressed the need, as the students - who are my biggest embrace - are also asking for - to prepare ways of ensuring a serious examination and taking into account the real development of learning. This approach does not want to be aimed at formal rigidity, but on the contrary it intends to aim for the valorization of the paths of each one through the most suitable instrument for all. That is precisely why this House is already in advance of what can be a direct consequence of this approach of valorisation, which concerns the composition of examination committees for second-degree secondary school. My aim is to propose a committee composed of only internal members and with external presidents. On the one hand, this applies to protecting the learnings actually acquired and, on the other, an external president is the guarantor of the regularity of the entire examination process. To the students of the Italian school, who write to us every day and to whom, albeit remotely, I repeat my greatest embrace, especially to those who are mentally projected to the exams and who for this reason live insecurities due to the emergency that we are experiencing, I want to confirm that the Minister, the Ministry, the Government, the teachers, the ATA staff, the school leaders and the school are all with them and, never as at this time, it is above all for them. The Italian school is for you. All the measures relating to the decisions we are taking will follow in the coming weeks. New operational indications will be given to all, so no one feels in uncertainty and no one, especially among students, lives anxiously for the school. In the meantime we have also activated with RAI - and I thank the managing director Fabrizio Salini for this - in order to enhance the offer of useful content for schools. On 24 March, we signed a charter of intent: there will be on the channel "Rai Scuola" material for Scuola@casa and "RaiPlay" the RAI digital platform, created ad hoc playlists: lists of materials for school institutions that can also be used by children and families outside the distance teaching that fall within the initiative "The school does not stop," the hashtag that the Ministry adopted to tell, on the one hand, what is happening in the institutions and, on the other, make recognizable the materials and contents that rotate around the distance teaching and the situation that we are living. The collaboration does not stop here: we are developing other initiatives that are useful at school, students and families. In continuing to do school at a distance, respecting all the professional prerogatives of the staff, albeit with all the differences of materials, connectivity, tools and skills that necessarily denote the individual and the territories of the country, we see a chance of normality and continuation of interpersonal relationships, which, especially among the smallest and in family situations where the virus or the simple impossibility to get out have brought anguish and pain, are a fundamental aspect to hold the balance and strengthen the sincere conviction that, together, everything will be overcome. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u50	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Education. Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when dealing with the health emergency, an economic and social disaster is created: schools have been closed since 5 March, pupils and students of all ages are at home and the burden is on families. Mr. Minister, as you well know, in moms' chats - at least in mine too - there has been talk for days that they have finished school. Everyone understood that the school year in class is over, but no one from the government had the understanding - or perhaps I should use the word "courage" - to warn the Italians. We have already been given a number of contradictory information on his part and we would not like to see any other communication errors again. You should tell us now what will happen from April 4th, because families must be able to organize themselves. On 3 April, the final closing date for schools, there is only one week left and we would like to know when a new communication will come: perhaps on 2 April, the night before, how has it happened so far? Planning is not only feasible but necessary in a situation that will continue for a long time. Minister, in this House you just explained that distance learning systems involved 94% of students. I would like to know by what method of monitoring you calculated it: 94 out of 100 children have a station, a computer, broadband and maybe a printer or in the monitoring that didactics that you call distance is also contemplating, for example, the "holy" mothers who have equipped themselves, making copies of school books and improvising material on WhatsApp? The truth is that, despite its shortcomings, there has fortunately been an extraordinary response from principals and teachers - whom I thank - who often, yes, have improvised, but showed love and attachment for their profession, but above all for their pupils. Little has been done on the demand side because a large proportion of pupils and students do not have a broadband connection at their disposal, an indispensable tool to participate fully in the same classes with others. Moreover, the quality of the educational offer is very different from Region to Region, between city and province, between rich institutes and schools on the outskirts. There is a big difference between girls and children who fill out questionnaires and tests online and those who are forced to watch home videos uploaded on YouTube with Mom and Dad's mobile phone. Not all parents have cognitive tools to support their children at this complex time and not all are at home with them, because they may be working in the areas you have considered essential. (Brusio). Senator Renzi, I'm sorry. I can only hear your voice. This evidence gives rise to a disparity in the right to study... PRESIDENT. I had invited you to strictly respect the times. Go fast and finish, Senator Ronzulli. RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President. The gap that we open today, among those born in affluent families that you can afford the best devices and those who are born in families that have less economic possibilities, will be hardly recovered in the coming months. This coronavirus is taking away a lot of things from us. Our children are losing not only social relationships, but also a lot of skills. I therefore ask you, Minister, to clarify when and how these powers will be recovered. By synthesizing, I ask that all students be granted the right to education because under no circumstances would it be acceptable to train A-grade students and B-grade students. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u52	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u53	Mr President, Minister, we know that families are all unequal and each one is unhappy in his own way, as Tolstoy wrote in Anna Kapina. But we also know that one of the tasks of the school is precisely to shorten distances and give opportunities to each. Quarantine has put the basic principle of school equality on standby. In fact, willing or not and despite the commendable efforts of many teachers from the North to the South who have set up the online teaching, it is unfortunately true that our children are not studying as if the school was open and they are not all studying in the same way. The constitutional right to education for all is under discussion. Meanwhile the decree-law care Italy has allocated 85 million euros precisely for this, Minister; you have to spend it and spend it quickly, they cannot stay in the drawer, and you must spend it well above all. There are guys without PC who write the themes by hand, photograph them and send them away WhatsApp to the teachers. I have evidence here that I'd like to deliver to you. I believe that we must immediately equip them with PCs and that we must ensure that all students have the connection, because it is not conceivable that there is someone who is prevented from studying. Just as I believe that we must act quickly for the difficulties of children with disabilities; the stay at home - I assure you - is terribly more tiring for them. We have to hurry and we don't have to waste any more time. There are families with more children in the house for which the available band and the amount of data are not sufficient; or there are teachers who share connections and PCs with their children, in the double capacity of parents and teachers. The state cannot make families in debt on giga and purchase personal computers. If the EUR 85 million we have allocated is not enough, as I believe, you must ask for more resources now, already from the next measure. One idea that we will put in place with an amendment is then to transform the 18 app bonus, which was an initiative of the Renzi Government. Since, unfortunately, our kids will not be able to go to the museum, cinema, theater, we give them at least the opportunity to spend resources to buy a PC, tablet or webcam. Why, then, do we not already realize a single computer platform dedicated exclusively to our education system? Finally, each teacher must be equipped with a PC to carry out his mission, even remotely, and must be trained for this. I believe that this emergency can last for a long time - and even stop being an emergency - and we cannot be organized with a temporary flying thread. We can't move forward in scattered order. We can't leave schools alone. These days there are tables with dozens of suppliers, some of whom have tried to take the opportunity to insert some "horse of sluts," with solutions initially free of charge that then, once they become indispensable, will generate fees and expenses. They have been put together, without a precise strategy, content providers with providers that provide connections; multinational software with hardware providers. That's not good. We need to simplify the school and lighten it up with bureaucracy. We need an action decided by the Ministry to direct schools. Let us use the little time we will have for our students and not for red tape. Mr. Minister, then there is the democratic tool par excellence, TV. Let's use it; let's use public TV, RAI. We organize, as they are doing in Spain, video lessons for all students aged six to sixteen, covering the whole range of obligation: five hours a day for five days a week. This can be done right away. There are many issues we need to discuss, Minister. That is why we have insisted on your presence in this House, and it will probably also be necessary for you to return. We need to figure out how to do the exams and eighth grade; whether to open schools in June to July; the evaluation. The whole school population is asking for clarity. I appreciate the efforts you're making, but we need to do a lot more. On the mobility of teachers we cannot continue as if nothing were happening. We stop the car and agree to new modes. Let us move, meanwhile, the terms of May. There is also a need for clarity in addition to this. Attention, then, also to peer schools. Let us not mention them, let us forget them, and instead it is important to take care of them as well as the lines that families have to pay for services that are no longer carried out and that, however, we cannot load on the shoulders of equal schools. Therefore, on this too, I believe that your Ministry should propose an ad hoc measure. We will, with an amendment to the next decree, but I think the Ministry should give us a hand. We need to be ready for the two scenarios. Although I believe that the scenario of school reopening is much more unlikely, it is an even easier scenario to organize. With the reopening in May, it would be advisable to extend until the end of June the conclusion of the lessons, but eliminating all the time that is normally devoted to bureaucracy and modifying the end-of-cycle exams. If I think that the schools, normally, in those months carry out an activity aimed at the adoption of textbooks (which involves meetings of councils for the following year, meetings of class councils, colleges of teachers, representatives) and that in 2009 it was decided to keep the same textbooks for five years, I think it is not shocking if we, for the next year, left the same textbooks, even saving the families. On the other hand, I understand that the offices of the Ministry, pushed by the publishers, seek the way to make schools adopt texts, even by having books browsed on the net. I believe that this path must also be stopped. The eighth grade exams could be lightened and, therefore, last only the last week of June or the first week of July, admitting everyone to the exams, without making final reviews, and making evaluations only at the conclusion of the exams, which this year could only be oral. The exams of maturity, again in this case, skipping the class councils to decide admissions, could take place only with the oral exam or only with internal commissions, also here zeroing any kind of bureaucracy. This, if the scenario is the most unlikely. If, on the other hand, the scenario, which I think most likely, is what the schools will not reopen, the Ministry must already equip itself to predict remote examinations. Many universities are graduating online students, so I don't see why the school couldn't do it; let's think about it in time, avoiding getting to those days in a condition of organizational difficulty. We need a strategy, we need to change the rules and not use digital to do exactly what we used to do before, otherwise it would mean making a distorted use of digital. I should like to conclude by thanking the teachers - I am pleased, Minister, that you have done so several times - who support the children by spelling out their days and giving an idea of normality in times that are not normal, but are absolutely exceptional. I thank school leaders, parents and even students, who do not go to school but have learned more. The most important lesson they could learn is that life can suddenly change and that all certainties can fail in a second. The Covid-19 also immunized them against incompetence and sorcerer apprentices. Just like my generation was marked by the courage of Falcone and Borsellino and many chose to be a lawyer or a magistrate, many will dream of becoming doctors, nurses, pharmacists and scientists. As we have already said, we are opposed to the "political 6," on the one hand because we have trained our children on the importance and value of merit, on the other hand because we trust the teachers who, in expressing their assessment for the children, will understand the difficulty of the moment and the maturity gained in these moments of loss. Finally, one last thought goes to all young people abroad, who are experiencing the Erasmus programme. The difficulties of repatriation and the psychological and physical discomfort due to isolation are transforming the dream of many into a nightmare. I ask you not to forget them; they must be supported. On the other hand, it is important to send out a message for the future: this programme which has formed millions of young people, a programme symbolizing openness and freedom, after this terrible experience does not close, but it will start again stronger than before, because they have chosen to be European citizens and are the symbol of a united Europe. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this information is considered very important by the Brothers of Italy. In fact, when we talk about school, we talk about the present of families and the future of our young people. Minister, we are fully aware of what is before us and what we are experiencing. A patriotic party like the Brothers of Italy realizes that it has to do its part; we started doing it right from the start on this issue. We are all called to the responsibility to honour the thousands of deaths; to the many sick people who are fighting to make it; to the Italians who are imprisoned, but who are doing this gesture of heroism of duty, in the knowledge that only then can we create an embankment; to all those people who are working and doing their part fully (among them there are certainly those who work in the Italian school). The responsibility is due to our country, but the government must give back to the opposition, who wants and must do its part, clarity. This is because responsibility goes hand in hand with the truth. I've heard Manzoni mention so many times these days. I do the same about the true manzoni saint. Honestly, your words make me hopeful but unconvinced because when we decrease the settings you have taught us in practice, in the social fabric, in our realities on the ground, we know that it is not that easy, we know that we are encountering difficulties and that they will encounter them even more. There is a risk that a lot of young people will be cut out of the right to study. We risk, as has already happened, leaving to their genius and their ability to improvise themselves and to get busy, which fortunately the Italians do not lack, many teachers who are working very hard, Minister, even if they are at home. They are working the triple because they are making fatal leaps to try to guarantee distance teaching that however we know well not to be normalized and that creates very serious inequalities in terms of access and does not respect the democratic and egalitarian criterion. In fact there are many realities on the periphery and in depressed areas where it is absolutely unthinkable that families, students and teachers can organize such activity. We have our pupils with disabilities who already had so many shortcomings at ordinary times, let alone at this precise moment, in the face of these difficulties. Minister, I do this for the sake of Fatherland, but you must remember that we had said that schools had to be closed long before. The virus has also been found on this. Moreover, regarding the words I heard about the waltz of the drafts, the story of the closing of the schools was only the first episode that inaugurated a deleterious tradition of this emergency and created the first escapes from the North to the South. Despite this, we immediately put forward proposals and we are pleased that they are already contained in the Government's measure, such as the babysitter voucher and parental leave. With our leader, Meloni, we were the first to propose them and we acknowledge to the Government that it is good and fair to have immediately transposed them. We have many other proposals, Minister, to bring to your attention. As my previous colleague also said, we must address the issue of tuition fees for school services and not just for public school. Our peer school must have answers. They cannot be treated as children of a lesser God, neither the one who manages them, nor the teachers who work there, nor the pupils. We shall be tabling a number of specific amendments on this subject: equal education is not the school of the rich. We don't have to leave anyone behind right now. Everyone must know that in this House there is the state that thinks of everyone, that does not create discrimination, that demands sacrifices from everyone, but that we must all do the same. Therefore, as far as the rights of equal schools are concerned, we believe that action must be taken. We call for the ministerial contributions provided for in the budget law of 2020 to be made quickly. Similarly, we call for equal schools to be able to take advantage of social shock absorbers, just as we call for tax credits to be extended to them for expenses relating to utilities and the organisation of distance learning. I want to thank in a very heartfelt way all the staff of the school and I do it starting from the ATA, people who have done and do their duty, many times coming from very long precarious stories. They are people who continue to go to school and work, but I honestly do not understand the reason, since there are no educational activities. They are people who have lent themselves to everything, even to the sanitization of the environments, which had to be operated through specialized companies. I would like to point out that our Provinces, which run the upper secondary schools, have no money, because of the cuts that have been made, have been unable to do any activity of sanitization of the environment and our technical and administrative staff has equipped themselves with rags, soap and bleach, at best, and has done this too. Let us not forget this category either. Minister, as was said earlier, I expected a clearer word to give certainty to our pupils, who want to know for the immediate, since it seems assumed that the school year will end here, as we will arrange for the future, if this emergency should be prolonged. Minister, we also want to bring to your attention another aspect, which concerns international student mobility. [[Call the president back.]] I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. Many families have paid very exotic fees and installments and need to have a word of certainty and perhaps a refreshment. So, Minister, as you can see, the Brothers of Italy Group is equipped to collaborate immediately, with its proposals. However, your availability must not only be dialectic, only a showcase of institutional courtesy, otherwise we fear that, as President Renzi said this morning, the Italians will then be forced to say that, as Manzoni wrote in the 32nd chapter of "I promessi mati": There was common sense; but he was hiding it out of fear of common sense. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr Azzolina, I have listened very carefully to your speech and I must say that many of the parties you have outlined are acceptable - I believe - from all over this House. I will try to be very brief: the fact is that today the schools are closed and will remain closed, most likely, and the teaching activity, apparently, continues. The problem is that this so mundane good interaction, through distance teaching, between professors and students, I don't think it is going anywhere in a suitable and appropriate way. You yourself, Minister, spoke of a project of digital solidarity. That's right, we're still at the project. In fact, there are many schools that were previously in socio-economic difficulties and in unfavourable situations, even more so today, in the crisis and emergency situation that we are all experiencing. Many institutions have, yes, organized themselves, but not all have the real possibility of doing so under the same conditions as others. After all, we ourselves know that the whole country cannot enjoy broadband or anything like that and, as a result, not all students are in a position to attend classes online. I also have another question: when we are faced with families who have more children of school age and who maybe have only one personal computer available and that same one maybe is used by one of the members of the family who works in smart-working, what happens? I wouldn't want you to be faced with the choice of who has to follow the lessons and who doesn't, in medieval style. Given the situation, I believe that we all have to thank the Italian students, the Italian teachers, the ATA staff, but we have to be aware of the differences that exist in the country. What are the criteria of fairness for the allocation of the millions available, and above all, Minister, when there are such different situations? On the basis of what types of assessment will we be able to know what is the figure of early school leaving, which is a scourge that in such a situation can be further accentuated by the emergency? Finally, you have spoken of serious consideration and you have spoken of your orientation on the committees, but is this a decision or is it just your orientation? It is essential that the government in Parliament should be able to say what it intends to do, but, Minister, I believe that the appeal that they must and can all make is that it is good that we know right away. We need clarity. It is good for students, families and teachers to know what its guidelines, evaluations and decisions will be, but it must be done immediately, not on September 30th. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u58	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u59	Minister, we know that we are in the presence of a very sensitive health situation, of course, because it is quite clear that if the virus spreads further, especially in the regions of the South, accentuating the need for intensive care units, the health system will enter into difficulties, despite the extraordinary commitment of the staff of the public health structures. It also risks increasing fear, continuously fueled by inevitably growing and invasive information, but sometimes too anxious. Above all, we are already in a very serious economic crisis, as we know, with incalculable consequences, probably much more devastating even from the social point of view of the most visible effects of the current epidemic. In all this, the closure for a short period of the schools of every order and grade constituted an inevitable measure, in an attempt to reduce the phenomena of contagion. This is a very delicate measure on the social level, not because it produces, at least in the current proportions, irreparable damage in the preparation of our students, but because it highlights much more than any message the overall gravity of the situation, a measure which, in any case, we know to be adopted also by other countries. Suddenly, in this unpublished context, we were presented the face of a school that at a distance solves every problem and realizes the best of the possible teaching, exceeding the limits of space and time. Who knows the concrete situation of our school buildings and their technological endowments will have felt some thrill, but this is not the real problem, as is not the controversy against the supposed strength of distance teaching, seen as a strategy, if thought, or as a drift, if only uncritically practiced to diminish the role of public school and its irreplaceability. Digital teaching technologies can very well contribute to improving the ability of schools and teachers, but they can never replace the richness of the educational relationship that takes place in the classrooms of schools in the presence of teachers and students. A closed school is not only a closed building: it is a community that suddenly fails in that territory, it is that place where every morning the children of the school of childhood and primary school meet to spend a day together with their teachers, while the parents meet, confide, tell. It is that place where middle and high school students meet each morning to comment on the day, to confide in fears and hopes, to talk about their passions and interests. It is that unique and unrepeatable place where every morning the old and new generations meet. This whole world cannot be reproduced at a distance and it is the wealth that we must preserve. The controversy therefore does not need us, because it puts in shadow the most important fact that is happening: a large part of the staff (manager, teachers, technicians) has mobilized to give a signal to the children, to the students, to communicate first of all their proximity, to let know that they have not put themselves on vacation, but they try in every way to give continuity to the interrupted work with the hope of recovering it soon. Without prejudice to the fact that no one has ever spoken of 6 politicians about the safeguarding of the school year, does the Minister not think that the main concern in any case and in any case is to make no student lose the school year, considering that for a pupil the loss of a school year in fact coincides with the almost unbreakable loss of one year of his life journey? And do you not think in this regard that such a decision should result from a broad consultation with all stakeholders, from social and professional forces to political and parental? The emergency phase will give us to its desirable and, as soon as possible, a new and very dramatic scenario for the effects of this exception state and every measure will have to be compared to that scenario. It will be necessary to distinguish the evaluation between the days before February in ordinary didactics and the one after the following weeks. The decree "cura Italia" has allocated 85 million, to which - if I understand correctly - they are going to add another 43.5 in a decree of next issue. Of the 85 million, 10 million will be allocated to the purchase of platforms and digital tools useful for distance learning or enhancement of those already provided, in compliance with the accessibility criteria for people with disabilities; 70 million to make available to the less well-off students in convenient use of individual digital devices and Internet connection; Finally, 5 million for vocational training. Well come, but on distance learning you have to make clear; you need a single directional booth and a single platform that does not leave the world of schools in its own solitude. Then there is the problem of the next school year: how will you think of ensuring a regular start of a year that will have the task of recovering lost time and didactics and with thousands of vacant chairs, since competitions are no longer taking place? Perhaps it would be necessary to have a competition for titles only for the entry into office. Finally, for mobility, it would be desirable to postpone the operations that will start shortly and review the existing permanence constraints. However, the message that schools, teachers of role and not of role (the latter unjustly excluded from the bonus) communicate to a frightened and lost country, the empathy that arrives - this yes - even at a distance, the sense of a responsibility and educational solidarity that does not stop in the face of the virus and relaunches a message of trust without waiting for ministerial instructions. The teachers are trying hard to reach the pupils, especially those of the schools of areas at risk of dispersion, even by means other than those that schools are implementing, because not everyone has a computer, printer, tablet or connection that works. Finally, I quote the testimony of a small student, the best of the class of a school on the outskirts of Palermo, who addressed his teacher in this way: "Good morning Professor, thank you for giving me the opportunity to send homework through photos taken on the notebook, because this is my only chance to send homework. All I can do is use my mom's phone, and we have a pretty limited Internet, just on her phone. If you can also tell the other professors to appreciate my commitment to do the homework, but unfortunately I can send the homework only by doing it on the notebook and then send the photo to you. Faced with this, I feel a deep sense of gratitude to all the actors in our public school. It is an extraordinary resource, despite all the problems, old and new, which we know and await answers. One more reason to remotivate our commitment to their side. Good job, Minister. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u60	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u61	Mr President, Minister, at this difficult time in which we are living, in which the social and economic emergency overlaps with the health emergency, we have a duty to give answers immediately, to give certainties in particular to those who are weaker and those who have already dealt with the crisis, to those who fight to get on their feet at the end of the month. I am thinking in particular of the self-employed, the precarious, the unprotected, a craftsman, a VAT number, a worker of culture, tourism, entertainment, at this time when all the theatres are closed, all the squares are closed. It is therefore our task - and today's theme - to allow our children to continue to study, not to get lost, not to see their hopes, ambitions, swallowed up by a black hole, by an impalpable enemy, but capable of depressing, disorienting a generation that is instead indispensable to our country. It is in the classrooms that the destiny of a society and a democracy is fulfilled. That's where we have the pact that we base our being together on, because it's in school that we learn to know ourselves and others; to mix, to question ourselves, to face trials that seem to be related to teaching, but that are actually existential. Each of us remembers his first day of school, his eighth grade exam, his maturity exam. It was like keeping a promise not only with ourselves, but with our family members, with our teachers, with our companions, and, through them, with the whole country. He was like a generation ready to enter the agora, to make their voices heard, to change things. The school is all this. Public school is all this, and even in these complicated weeks, so crazy, it must continue to be so: live emancipation, ransom, the opportunity to carry out one's own life plan. The school is in fact a vital engine for a community, it can never jam and - it has been said here - it has never jammed from March 5 to today, since the emergency health has imposed the closure of all schools, of all universities, of kindergartens. This engine will not be jammed - we have said so - in the coming days, until the risk is over, and we hope that this will happen as soon as possible. That motor, Minister, as you said, remains on thanks to an instrument on which we began to invest in the last parliamentary term: the teaching at a distance that, if already in a few days has succeeded in giving results, is first of all for the extraordinarily generous membership of the teachers to whom it goes a huge, special thanks, for the additional, very complicated work they are carrying out; for the commitment of managers, administrative staff, auxiliary. The school is demonstrating that it knows how to be a community, that it is aware of its role, its function, that it is a civic embankment to solitude, to confusion and to fear. The school is demonstrating that it knows how to be militant, alive, responsive, every day, reinventing itself. This is a great pride, and we must say once again: thank you! It must not, however, be a rhetorical thank you; it is the thanks of those who make a commitment: to continue investing in public school, in the right to study, which is the most powerful social elevator; it is the link between generations, institutions and citizens, because public education is like public health, we know it more than ever in these days. The people of the school are the ones from whom doctors, nurses, researchers, health workers, social workers, who are at the front every minute putting their lives at risk, and of whom we must do everything to be up to it, as it is happening in the school. We know that distance learning is not our idea of teaching; yet it is imposed by this state of emergency that we live in; yet it manages to guarantee continuity of service with activities and initiatives of teachers that go far beyond regulatory obligations, contractual obligations. A business that runs the school year. And all this has a huge meaning, first of all emotional, because the school continues. Then it is life that continues, and the virus will be defeated and we will resume our future. This will happen, although it is not easy these days because we know that this crisis in school also exacerbates enormous problems already, such as school dispersal, which is unbearable especially in many cities in the South; problems that today are magnified because - as a teacher wrote to me - distance teaching is not democratic, but is terribly classy. There are guys who have everything, starting from a big house, lots of spaces and many electronic devices and there are guys who have nothing, who fight with their brothers or parents a bit 'of connection or do not have it at all, outside of a mobile phone and of themselves, of their desire to study, to realize and to do their homework. It is to those kids, who live in a state of discomfort and often without a family to rely on, that we must bring the school, that does not close and that lives in extreme cases also through a chat of WhatsApp. It happens these days because, as Fr.Milani said, there is nothing more unfair than making equal parts between unequals. That's why in the decree we're going to discuss, 85 million are allocated to kids who don't have a tablet, a computer -- we're going to have to implement these resources -- or a connection that works. We must ensure that these resources are accessible immediately to bridge the enormous diversity between school and school, between the schools in the centre and the suburbs. In distance learning, special attention is needed to children; the anxiety of too many things must not be passed on to them. Children of primary and childhood need the presence of adults and accompaniments. This means concrete interventions for parenthood and parental leave. We know that, in the same way, distance learning in superiors cannot become excessively bureaucratic and notizable (only register of presences and tasks), but it must still be sharing and involvement. We know, in the face of all this, that the biggest problem with distance learning is not being able to reach all students. Despite the data you have given us, we know that there are many (over 1.5 million) those who are not reached and we must also give them the possibility of not interrupting the course because the school year must be saved first for them, as we are trying to do. Then, inequalities must be countered; those students must be put in a position to do so. I am referring to the weakest, poor children at risk of dispersion, children with disabilities and delays, working students and foreign students. We must recognise that teachers can choose methods and tools to respond best to these pressing needs. It would be nice to be able to work on videoconferencing platforms that, instead of being private, are finally public and made available by the Ministry, together with the RAI, as is being done with a dedicated channel also for the exams of maturity, which will have to be done and will have to be serious in order to enhance the educational paths of all and the title of study. We will need to rethink the full formative evaluation, ensure the continuity of teaching and secure - this is a real risk - the start of the next school year. That is also why I think we need an extraordinary plan of recruitment and stabilization of precarious teachers over 24,000 that we have said. Minister, for all this we will need a permanent table between government and social and trade union forces, a directing booth to have the maximum sharing - I think, for example, on the subject of mobility - in addressing all these challenges. The circulars and ministerial notes alone are not enough. They will serve as much humility and listening on our part as possible and as much determination as possible to allocate all the necessary resources. Mr President, it has been said that the virus affects everyone indistinguishably, but this is not really true because we know that it does not affect everyone in the same way and that those who are most in difficulty are hit harder and risk not being able to do so. This is the hardest proof we have and this must always be our assailant in these hours. Never before, in fact, will we have to do completely so that no one is alone; we will have to do everything because everyone's fate is the fate of the whole country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u62	Senator Pittoni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u63	Mr President, in the dramatic situation in the country and in anticipation of an equally dramatic post-emergency phase, the problem of evaluating the final results of the school year must be tackled as a matter of urgency, in order to offer a minimum of certainty to students and families. We don't know the duration of the emergency yet, but we can put some ideas on the table. For exams, for example, the individual evaluation of learning can be carried out with the tools of distance learning, obviously after having guaranteed to all the necessary ones, as well as the final collegial evaluation with secure network connection. The solution for the state exams is more complex: the oral exam is possible in videoconference, with the candidate who connects to a mother address on which the members of the committee also converge. The written test could be carried out in a manner similar to the ordinary, but of course remotely, with the expedition of the telematic file containing the exams to the students at a preset hour and fixed video connection to the station of each of them. The committees shall subsequently assess the matter in a virtual collegiate session. Alternatively, however, one could follow the example of Holland, which has already arranged for the replacement of the final exam by the evaluation of the credits obtained during the course of the school career. With regard to the start of the school year 2020-2021, it will be essential to be able to rely immediately on a stable and motivated teaching staff. The time has therefore come to overcome every ideological remora, stabilizing those who possess a requirement of precarious service in state schools, provided for by Community legislation, referring to the period of service already provided and to the cultural and professional titles possessed. This staff, once placed in office, will have to attend, with a burden on the State, an abbreviated academic course, aimed at obtaining the qualification. In this first phase, not all will be able to achieve the appointment in role, due to insufficient availability of posts, but, in application of the provisions of law n. 159 of 2019, you can offer to the non-appointed the insertion in the queue, on demand, in the same rankings of other Region. Obviously, both in the Region of first choice and in other option, with nomination in role on places remained vacant and available only after the exhaustion of the rankings of the current ordinary systems of recruitment (ordinary contest 2016, extraordinary contests 2018 and graduations when exhausted). With regard to vacant and available support posts, it would be appropriate to proceed in parallel, when the ordinary rankings have been exhausted, with priority being given to those who hold a qualification, a qualification or a total of at least three years of service in state schools; to follow those who are not qualified, but who hold a qualification and who have completed a total of at least three years of service in state schools, will be able to obtain the qualification during the test year, with special abbreviated courses; and those who are qualified, but not in possession of the qualification and have carried out at least one year of service on support and a total of three years in state schools, will also be able to obtain the qualification during the test year, subject to the frequency of an abbreviated training course. It would also be appropriate to allow those who have served the same number of years in equal education institutions or are recruited from 1 September 2020 and have the same seniority, to participate - with charges at their expense - in an abbreviated academic path, aimed at obtaining the qualification. This would ensure compliance with the law on equality, as well as providing an important contribution to raising the overall quality of the teaching staff. At the same path it would be appropriate to admit, always with charges at its own expense, both those who, although included in the ranking aimed at the entry in role, are still precarious due to the lack of available places, both doctors and PhD students inserted in the rankings of the third group and in possession of the 24 CFU provided by the law. And why doesn't he also admit to such courses the teachers of role in possession of an appropriate degree to aspire to the passage of role, but still without the qualification? Finally, it is essential to activate a university or specialization course for support, without input selection and with charges on those concerned, reserved for teachers of roles and not of roles who have served without qualification for at least one year on support posts. Dear Minister, I have listed some proposals for solving problems that affect the lives of hundreds of thousands of operators, who - I am witness to this - in the vast majority of cases live the school as a mission. If we offer them serenity, they will be able to transmit serenity to the children for whose formation they are responsible. I conclude with an appeal: withdraw the ministerial order on the mobility of teachers, ATA staff and educators, which must be rethought after a comparison with the union forces, the other party to the mobility contract. The measure is contrary to the spirit and letter of the extraordinary norms for the containment of the coronavirus epidemic. It is true that, since the computerised procedure is in place, the persons concerned can send the application from home. But the problem is the compilation: contact with counselling offices is indispensable for tens of thousands of school workers, in order to distangle themselves into a complex and varied regulatory framework. Nor can the persons concerned be in possession of fundamental data for the choice, such as updates to pensions and posts remaining vacant after the operation of appointments in role relating to the current school year, which can only be consulted in the territorial offices of the Ministry of Education or in the offices of the trade union organizations, i.e. with movements from the home of the persons concerned, which is not really the time to encourage. Listen, for once. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u65	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to avoid repeating the desperate appeals that I have also heard from the ranks of the majority about the timing and future of our students, about how they will be carried out in the eighth grade and of maturity. There is one thing that stands out in the so-called decree-law care Italy: it does not care at all for the interests of that about million students who are enrolled in peer schools; of their families, who will continue to pay fees for a service that cannot be rendered, and of the same schools, who will have no contributions to access digital teaching nor particular support in terms of social shock absorbers. Thus a constitutional principle, that of freedom of choice with regard to education, is lacking and compliance with a law of the State, that which now twenty years ago - it was 2000 - has established that the Italian education system is unique and equal schools are fully part of it. But the problem is wider, of course. The problem that we have to face and, as far as possible, solve is to try to contain as much as possible the effects and damage of that training gap which inexorably affects those who should be at school at this time and cannot be at school. Closing schools was obviously a necessity, an urgency; nothing else could be done. Minister, it is clear that you yourself, in part, recognised - when you spoke of a digital gap - that not all families have digital tools. 25% of families find that they do not have them and not all schools are able to provide this service; there is a huge difference between North and South. In short, our students risk having a huge, large and wide gap in their training. I remind myself and her that in the early 1960s an enlightened Minister of Education made an agreement with an enlightened Director-General of RAI: RAI in fact made the middle school on television and this allowed millions of Italians to school (they were not only Italians at school age). I see that France - for example - is doing something similar at this juncture, precisely to contain the damage and the effects of the limits to civil liberties and duties imposed by the health emergency. Three channels of French public television at the moment - France 2, France 4 and France 5 - are making a relay to offer French students the training that the French school is obviously unable to offer. I wonder, then, why RAI not. You referred to agreements you have signed with the Italian state television company, but it has nothing to do with what France is doing, of course. Why not RAI? Why do you remember the existence of a public radio and television service only when making political appointments? It would honor the RAI and at the same time render a necessary service to the nation. It is a matter of reappropriating one's functions. It is a matter of remembering that public service is such if it offers a service and nothing would be more important than it. Offering education: I don't think there is a more important purpose and motivation than this. [[Applause from the FBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u66	Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u67	We live a historical moment whose impact on our society we will be able to evaluate with some accuracy only on the long term. I am referring not only to the economic impact but, above all, to the social and cultural impact. I would therefore like to begin by thanking you, Minister, also on behalf of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group, for the sensitivity which, in these days more than ever, you are showing towards the pupils, teachers and the whole school community, which is experiencing an absolutely unprecedented and painful moment, as you yourself mentioned in the beginning of your speech in this House. His work represents and reflects also the effort of the whole world of the Italian school that is making to face the emergency, having found himself forced in a few weeks, indeed in a few hours, to carry out an authentic revolution; a revolution that has meant having to focus everything on distance teaching; a step absolutely necessary - as it has been emphasized - not to abandon families and students and to give them still points, which are not only educational, but represent today, in this situation of time and suspended habits, also of emotional and emotional coordinates, especially for the little ones. A heartfelt and due thank you go, therefore, to our teachers who, despite all the difficulties of this global event that no one could really predict and that strikes us so and now, are continuing the school program using all the channels and methods available to keep in touch and in relation with their pupils, aware as they are that, now more than ever, they need to feel the presence of the school community in their lives. I'm a teacher myself. My sister is a teacher and I can testify that, never as at this juncture, the whole teaching class, of every order and grade, from North to South of the country, is demonstrating the immense heart and great dedication with which she carries out her work. Today it may only be noticed more, but it has always been so. Minister Azzolina, for his part, has shown that he is well aware of the digital divide that still prevents, to some geographical areas of our country, some schools or individual families, from making full use of the tools of distance teaching. But this experience will be, and is, the spring to overcome such a gap. The measures taken by the Government go precisely in this direction, in support of those institutions or territories where certain teaching methods had never been tested before or, even, were not available. In this regard, a heartfelt thanks goes also to the families, because such an effort also invests them. Supporting children in this new way of teaching, which exploits computer platforms and new technologies, is certainly not easy and involves a commitment, even from families, of which we are absolutely aware. For this reason, we thank the parents and all the girls and boys who continue with constant enthusiasm their work as students and - I add - do not need to feel controversy. Excellent, therefore, the initiative to provide technical support, but also an online psychological support. As everyone has been told, girls and boys, teachers and families, we have a duty to ensure above all one thing: clarity. I am therefore pleased that the distinctive feature of your words, today in this House, has been precisely the clarity of what has been done and what needs to be done. First and foremost, it is the certainty that you, Minister, have expressed on the guarantee for students that they will be able to take the state exams seriously. Of course, he was worried about it. The modalities will be defined and communicated in time, and already today has given some anticipation over them. We have a duty to give dignity to this complicated school year and to support the efforts of families and students. We are sure that your Ministry, after hearing all the parties, will be able to give the necessary indications in view of the state exams in a clear, exhaustive and punctual way. Of course, we must wait - as you said well - to have a defined epidemiological framework, because the priority remains the maximum security for all students, teachers and entire school staff. The same clarity should be reserved for teachers. We are sure that circulars or guidelines of your Ministry will accompany teachers in the new challenge of evaluation for this school year, which puts the whole school community to the test for flexibility, new skills and seriousness. We are then comforted - I must say, Minister - by the results of the monitoring of the operation of distance learning: a result that tells us once again, contrary to a certain vulgated tiredness, of an Italy that is operational and ready to react. During my teaching experience in Germany, finished two years ago, I remember that the password was digitalisierung, digitization. The German school questioned the use of distance learning and was preparing for the implementation of new technologies in teaching. There was therefore a major debate on the pros and cons of the adoption of these methodologies and the need to adopt homogeneous and shared platforms and methods. We had to make decisions quickly, in the wake of the need that the outbreak of the pandemic put us in front of us. But we are sure that we will be able to make the best choices that first look immediately and, as soon as circumstances allow, will then allow us to plan also in the long term the role and method to make use of all the tools that modernity puts at our disposal, enriching the school and its educational function, and certainly not I'm gonna take her down. In this regard, I express all our satisfaction for the allocation reserved for distance teaching, very important to implement and make this instrument increasingly functional, so that it can accompany and integrate the didactics in presence, which however remains essential for the educational effectiveness and to cement that sense of belonging and community that the school represents and nourishes. Here, the challenge facing us, perhaps in a somewhat brutal way, is probably this: we have discovered that the digital divide often corresponds and feeds, in a perverse circle, a gap of a deeper nature, because it is a social, cultural and economic gap. The aim is therefore not only to ensure that the instruments we are giving ourselves in this crisis are a useful resource for tomorrow. Distance learning must enter permanently into the toolbox of our schools, because it is a formidable tool of learning and participation alongside traditional didactics. But the ultimate goal in the implementation of distance learning is that it represents a valuable additional tool to heal other disparities, which are far more dangerous and harmful to society, and which do not exist right now. To do this, this implementation must take place through constant accompaniment and precise criteria, in order to avoid dangerous unevenness that can disorient families and students. I would also like to stress how important your words on the precarious side have been, Minister. Having extended contracts until the emergency period will not only provide all our precarious teachers with an important economic resource at this time of crisis, but also teaching continuity, which is never as essential as now. We can therefore only appreciate your efforts and that of the whole Government in support of the school world at this very delicate time. The challenge is to turn the crisis into an opportunity for our schools to be ready for the challenges not only now, those of the emergency, but also for the great ones of the future. For this reason it is and will be fundamental that all the actors who are part of the world of school are constantly listened to, so that growth can happen in a harmonious way and be lasting. And we are sure, Minister, that with the sensitivity you have shown you will be able to listen to everyone. The school, whether live or at a distance, is the greatest instrument of freedom. As Movimento 5 Stars we are more than aware of this and are ready, as parliamentarians and as political force as a whole, to give all our support to strengthen every action in support of the school community, starting from the additional measures that may be necessary to manage this emergency, and looking above all to the future with confidence. We know that the Ministry is facing this unprecedented situation by putting in place every possible means to ensure the continuity of teaching and the regular conduct of the state exams. We are and I am sure that the Italian school will come out of this experience, now certainly quite traumatic, enriched and more effective than before. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator Conzatti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u68	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Education, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-203.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 1 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.18 p.m.
