ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I communicate that, subject to agreement with the Groups, the agenda of today's sitting is integrated, at 15.30, with the communications of the Minister of Health on the content of the measures implementing the containment measures in order to avoid the spread of the virus Covid-19, pursuant to article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as amended by the law of conversion n. 35 of 2020. For the discussion, three hours were allocated to the Groups, including explanations of vote. The Minister of Health's reply and explanations of vote will take place by direct television transmission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u4	On 13 July 2020, the parliamentary groups sent the Presidency the nominations of their representatives to the Permanent Commissions for the renewal referred to in Article 21 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. The composition of the Commissions will be published in an annex to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u7	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you today in this House of the tragic railway accident in Puglia four years ago. At 11 am on 12 July 2016, two trains crossed the Bari-Barletta railway line, between Corato and Andria: 23 people died and 50 others were injured, in one of the most serious accidents in Italy, a wound that remains open. At the time of the accident, the two trains were located along a section of a single-track railroad, on which an automated train-blocking system was not used. Excruciating images that no one can ever forget, as no one can ever forget the demand for truth and justice that comes from the families of the victims to whom, as a state and as institutions, we have a duty to give an answer, a duty of clarity, truth and justice that we owe to the victims, to their loved ones, but also to all Italian citizens. Security is an issue that we cannot and must not fail. Therefore, every anniversary must represent a flywheel, not only of the search for truth, but also of the commitment to prevention, ensuring continuous checks on the railway lines. As Saint Augustine said, those who have left us are not absent. They are invisible and keep their eyes, full of joy, pointed in ours, full of tears. I am and will always be close to all the people who were involved that day. To them and to all the family members of the victims I offer my personal support and condolences, so that no one forgets. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u8	I invite the senators to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u9	The next item is the vote for the election of two members of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, referred to in Article 153, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree no. 196 of 30 June 2003, and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications, referred to in Article 1, paragraph 3, of Law no. 249 of 31 July 1997. For the election of two members of the College of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, each Senator will receive a yellow card, on which will indicate only one name among those who have submitted their candidacy in the framework of the selection procedure provided for in article 153, paragraph 1, of the legislative decree 30 June 2003, n. 196. The two candidates who will obtain the highest number of votes will be declared elected. The list of nominations received, published on the Senate's website, is available to the senators. For the election of two members of the Authority for Communications Guarantees, each Senator will receive a pink card, on which only one name will be given. The two members who obtain the highest number of votes will be proclaimed elected. Two booths were set up in front of the Presidency for voting operations. My fellow Senators, called in alphabetical order, will receive from the parliamentary assistants, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, the two cards that, after the vote, will deposit in the appropriate ballot boxes at the exit of the cabins themselves. I would remind you that the result will not be proclaimed immediately, because the senators who did not participate in the vote will be able to pass under the Presidency and, by communicating their name to the Secretary Senators, put the ballot papers in the ballot boxes. This option can be exercised until the closing of voting operations, scheduled for 13.30. Once the voting procedure has been completed, the ballots will be made. I declare the voting operations open by secret ballot and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed to the appeal. (Senator Secretary Durnwalder and then Senator Secretary Puglia proceed to appeal). (In the course of voting, they take the Presidency - at 10:17 a.m. - at 10:50 a.m. - at 11:11 a.m. - at 12:30 a.m.) I warn the Senators who have not yet voted that they will be able to do so by passing through the Presidency and communicating their name to the Secretary Senators. For these voting arrangements, the votes shall remain open until 1.30 p.m. The second call will not take place. I beg the Senators Secretary to call my fellow senators who haven't voted yet, in scattered order. (The ballot boxes remain open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u10	I declare closed the ballots by secret ballot for the election of two members of the College of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications. Pursuant to Rule 25 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the examination of the ballots and the calculation of the votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). The vote was taken by the senators: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barbaro, Battistoni, Botto, Bressa, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campagna, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Cario, Casini, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Causin, Cesaro, Cioffi, Ciriani, Cinnà, Cincari, Cincari I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3.30 p.m. with the Minister of Health's communications. (The sitting was suspended at 13.31 a.m. and resumed at 334 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u11	The next item is: "Communication from the Minister of Health on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to avoid the spread of the Covid-19 virus, pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as amended by Conversion Law No 35 of 2020" I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u12	Mr President, a month after my last communications to Parliament, I am here in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19, as amended and approved by the Chambers. It provides for the Government to confront Parliament in order to inform it of the work carried out and its guidelines in relation to the next measures. I am here to listen very carefully and in advance to the assessments, proposals and guidelines that Parliament considers appropriate to propose to the Commission. We started on May 4th the phase of exit from lockdown. Since then, we have continued our reopening process with caution. In this way, I consider today's parliamentary debate to be important. A comparison is certainly necessary to reflect on the state of evolution of the pandemic in Italy and around the world and to listen to the assessments and indications that Parliament will want to express on the next decisions to be taken. This debate for me is never simply an act due to respect for a rule, but it is a real possibility to promote a correct dialectic between Government and Parliament, between majority and opposition, as our President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, has so authoritatively wished several times. It is in this spirit that, before the opinions and proposals, I want to start from reality, from facts. Unfortunately, during this terrible pandemic we have tragically learned that reality and facts do not always coincide with our desires and often take unpredictable paths. Few numbers and their sequence are almost always clearer and more explicit than a thousand words. On May 31, when Italy was already in the phase of exiting lockdown, in the world we had 5,934,936 infected and 367,166 deceased. Today, just over forty days later, the infected have passed the threshold of 13 million. They have therefore more than doubled and the deceased, by now, are tragically well over half a million. Faced with these figures, these pitiful numbers, it is quite clear that we cannot lower our guard. Let's not split up on this, please. Even in the scientific community there is a legitimate debate before a virus that is and remains new, but no one - I repeat - says that no one should put the masks, that one must not respect the minimum distance of one meter and the hygiene rules starting from the frequent washing of the hands: three simple but essential rules, that can make us manage this phase of co-existence with the coronavirus. The data of the infected grows everywhere: in the United States we are more than three million and from the Americas every day we come, from several parts, heartbreaking images of pain and despair. The wave becomes ever higher even in the Eastern countries and in the south of the planet, where the data, with a very fragile health system, are unfortunately often incomplete and partial, within a dramatic vortex of numbers and percentages that, in their merciless coldness, represent, however, women and men in the flesh and bones, human lives. Let's never forget it. I want to highlight a fact that - in my opinion - is the most impressive: on our planet, to date, the Covid has hit one citizen every about 650 inhabitants of the nearly eight billion women and men who populate the land on which we live. This is the overflowing force of an enemy that not only we have not yet defeated, but that continues to expand, occupy other territories, to reap new victims; a subtle virus, which often hits camouflaging itself. We learned at our expense that Covid attacks us by multiplying the infected not only through symptomatic subjects, but increasingly by means of asymptomatic patients. I remember these numbers not to feed irrational fears that would make no sense, but not to lose the rational awareness that we cannot and must not underestimate the risks that we are still running. The game isn't won yet. The game is still going on. The first assessment that I therefore offer to the House is a precise reminder not to underestimate first of all a very worrying international situation, because the circulation of the virus in the world accelerates and in no way loses power. Highlighting exogenous risks cannot mean pickling or minimizing endogenous risks. On this point too, I want to be very explicit in this second part of my speech. In Italy we are on the right path. We know more and more about the virus, and we have adopted measures for territorial prevention in the workplace, such as safety protocols in hospitals and in our health facilities. Let us not be deceived, however: there is no zero risk without the vaccine. I believe that the whole of Parliament, all Italians, must be aware of the work that has been done over the last few months, which has allowed us to put the darkest days behind us. As I have said in previous speeches in this House, we must recognise and value this, as it does, moreover, a large part of the international community, but without closing our eyes to what did not work, as it would have been necessary. Nobody gave us anything. First, in the West, we have been forced to face an unprecedented health emergency since the post-war period. We measured ourselves with difficulties and problems unpublished by type and size. We fought with courage and determination, without having an instruction manual to consult to guide our choices. What was the right choice, in every single step, was not written anywhere. When I use the plural, mine is not a plural referred to the national government. I am referring to Italy, our nation as a whole. I am referring to all Republican institutions: Government, Regions, Municipalities, Provinces and above all Italians, who have played a decisive role, making unimaginable sacrifices; to health workers, police forces, volunteers and workers who, in order to ensure essential services, have continued to carry out their activities even during lockdown. We'll never, ever finish thanking those women and those men. [[Applause]] With the choices made, thousands of lives were saved in Italy, preventing the high wave from overflowing even in the Mezzogiorno. We have indicated a course of navigation in the storm, which then served others and is followed today by almost the whole world. I say it with great pain in my heart. Whoever has made choices different from ours, who has entrusted himself to the hypothesis of immunity of flock is paying a very high price in terms of human lives and is still fully within the storm. We, Italy, are today out of the most dramatic days of the storm. We live in a rough sea, but we are not yet in a safe harbor. We are not yet sheltered, for two reasons, as simple as it is obvious. The first is that the virus, although in reduced form and with a prevalence of asymptomatic cases, continues to circulate. We are in a phase of coexistence with the Covid, in a context in which, by increasing activities and liberalising movements, the chances of encountering the virus inevitably increase. This is testified by the numerous active outbreaks, which we must be ever more rapid in identifying and isolating with the utmost determination and without any uncertainty. The second reason is that we are objectively exposed to the risk of importing the virus from Italians who return from travel abroad or from citizens of other countries that arrive or transit in Italy. These risks are not theoretical, but concrete, which, moving with great caution, we can reduce significantly, but never completely zero. These are risks that our weekly surveys clearly highlight, even within a national framework which, again this week, detects an RT index of less than 1. Following several small outbreaks that have occurred in the last few days, have passed from one to five the Regions with an index above one and we live with small chains of contagion of which it is not always easy to find the origin. Both international and national data, it is therefore confirmed the assessment that the game to stem, before, and defeat, after, the Covid is anything but finished. That is why we must move in every circumstance inspired by the principle of maximum precaution, not underestimating any sign of danger and always ready to intervene in a timely and proportionate manner to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. We will discuss again - both in the House and in the Senate - with a specific agenda for the possible extension of the state of emergency. I want to be very clear: at the moment no decision has been taken. The Council of Ministers will have to meet and I am deeply convinced that Parliament must be fully involved in the decision-making process in the relationship of trust that binds it to the Government. [[Applause.]] The President of the Council himself has confirmed to me that he is fully prepared for a further ad hoc discussion on the subject with the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. With the same frankness, in the light of the picture I have previously drawn up, I believe it is clear to everyone that I do not consider the emergency phase to be over and closed. The open point is to discuss the most appropriate formal tools for dealing with it. We will assess with transparency - even with the comparison with the Chambers - all hypotheses in the field; none at the moment can be excluded in terms of both legal-administrative procedures and consequences as well as temporality. I am personally convinced that the state of emergency can only be linked to an exceptional and limited period of our country's life. [[Applause.]] What we want to do is to be ready, not to have hiccups or delays, to be able to be timely in the procedures, such as - for example - the races for the benches or for the serological tests in view of the reopening of the schools. What we cannot afford is not to have an effective and fast machine to respond to any eventuality, because the risk is there and you cannot pretend not to see it. I believe - allow me - that the issue of the relationship between epidemic and democracy deserves a further moment of deepening, also in view of the choices that we will shortly be called upon to make. Faced with the images of the first impact of the Covid in China, some observers have imagined and also written that the rules of democracy could represent a limit to face the epidemic and stop the contagion and that instead the countries with a strong central dirigism were naturally more equipped to face the emergency. I don't think so. In our Italian experience the most important key to bending the contagion curve was precisely the basic harmony between the measures we adopted and the common feeling of the population, aware of the risks that the whole country was running. For me it was never the key to security that was decisive, but the persuasion and conviction of people were. I think that democracy and its rules are always a point of strength, never a point of weakness, and I believe that these reflections apply also for the coming months. At a time when we travel around the world at the rate of more than 200,000 new infections a day it is difficult not to recognize with linearity and transparency that the challenge is still open for each country, no one excluded. I have repeated it a thousand times in recent months and I will never tire of repeating it: the virus knows no regional, national and international borders. There are a thousand roads through which the infection can be imported into Italy and trigger new outbreaks of infection. In this context, our objective will be to ensure a fair and fruitful balance between Parliament's precious and incompressible prerogatives and the urgent need to protect public health. Parliament has defined, with the conversion of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March, and then with Decree No 33 of 16 May, a path, a mode of operation to which the Government - as it is already doing punctually - intends to follow closely. Paragraphs 1 and 5 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19 clearly define the procedure to be followed in the adoption of containment measures. Within this path, my view is that it is fully possible to balance and balance the fundamental right to health, as provided for in Article 32 of the Constitution, and the prerogatives which our Constitutional Charter always confers on Parliament. It is clear that Italy is at a different stage than in past months: since 4 May we have begun to reopen and start again with judgment, but we must continue on this path. We must also do so in order not to pay too high a price on economic and social plans, but we must always tell our fellow citizens a truth, a decisive and important truth. The first measure, the strongest one to restart our economy, is to continue to strictly respect all the prevention rules adopted, starting with those related to our individual behaviors. Without health security there are no budget law, public-private investment or European funding that can make us recover the lost land in these months. In order to live with the virus up to the vaccine, to rekindle all the engines of our economy and to face the serious social problems that we see growing in our country we must not back down a millimeter on prevention measures. In line with this approach, the Government intends to adopt, following this parliamentary passage, a new decree by the President of the Council of Ministers extending the measures currently in force until 31 July. The main measures are: the obligation to wear the mask in closed places; the obligation to comply with the safety protocols defined for the reopening of workplaces; the prohibition of assembly; the criminal sanctions for those who violate the quarantine obligation; the prohibition of entry or quarantine for those arriving from non-EU countries and stricter controls on airports, ports and border areas. This last measure, which I adopted by my order, is directly related to the serious situation of infection in an increasing number of areas of the world. The choice is clear: we cannot frustrate the sacrifices made by Italians in these months and that is why we have once again chosen the line of utmost prudence. The prohibition of entry and transit in Italy concerns today those who in the fourteen days before have stayed and transited in thirteen countries: Armenia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Kuwait, Northern Macedonia, Moldova, Oman, Panama, Peru, Dominican Republic; they are the nations that have a high incidence rate of the virus in relation to the population and a very low resilience of the prevention and control systems. In order to ensure an adequate level of health protection, direct and indirect flights to and from the countries indicated in the order are also suspended. We will constantly update this list on the basis of a punctual analysis of the evolution of epidemiological data. I would also like to remind you that, for all arrivals from non-European and non-Schengen countries, we have confirmed the quarantine of 14 days as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of infection. Particular attention is paid in these hours to landings on our coasts, with strict health checks and quarantine obligations for all those who arrive. No understatement can be accepted. On the urgent need to coordinate and control the European borders with common measures, I have written a letter in recent days to the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety Stella Kyriakides and to the German Minister for Health, President-in-Office of the Council, Jens Spahn. In my letter I insisted on the imperative need to define new, strict precautionary measures for arrivals from non-Schengen and non-EU areas, requiring the Commission and the Presidency to promote greater coordination between Member States and thus ensure greater effectiveness in achieving the objective of limiting the spread of infections caused by outbreaks of external origin. Every measure of prohibition of entry into Italy and restriction of the free movement of flights is a decision we take with pain, but they are necessary choices. Italy wants to isolate the virus, stop the chain of contagion and not isolate the affected countries, in respect of which we confirm our maximum availability of help and cooperation. We are working with Foreign Minister Di Maio and Commissioner Arcuri to respond positively, starting from Brazil, to the many requests for help that come from nations particularly in difficulty because of the pandemic. Italy will do its part to the end, no one saves himself. A global virus is also fighting, and above all, with strong international cooperation. [[Applause]] In parallel to these measures, the Government is committed every day on four priority fronts, the first of which is the vaccine. Our country, Italy, is fully on the field to ensure as soon as possible the vaccine to all citizens; a vaccine that - I repeat strongly - is for Italy a right of all, a global public good, not a privilege of a few. Compared to my previous information, I must point out that the initiative we have taken as a leading group, together with Germany, France and the Netherlands, has led to an acceleration of the European Commission's initiatives on this decisive match to finally defeat the Covid. The agreement we signed with AstraZeneca provides for the production of 400 million doses, of which 60 million will be delivered by the end of the year. It is good news that the viral vector of the AstraZeneca vaccine, on which the University of Oxford worked in the first place, is done in Pomezia and that the blasting will take place in Anagni: these are signs that Italy is there. Italy is there, with its brains and its skills. [[Applause]] Then, in these days, the comparison with other European countries continues to close agreements with other candidates credible vaccines; we speak to three hundred sixty degrees with all potential producers. In recent days I have visited first the IRBM of Pomezia, then ReiThera of Castel Romano, where also we work on an all Italian vaccine, and then, again, the Catalent plant of Anagni, where also Johnson &Johnson, besides AstraZeneca, will infiltrate the vaccine in experimentation. [[Applause]] Italy has enormous potential connected to the pharmaceutical industry and this is a strategic asset of the country. We need to make the most of Italian sites that can produce and attract new international investments. That is the basic choice we are working on. The second front concerns the Covid hospitals. I am very pleased to inform Parliament that, within a few days, by the end of next week, the Ministry of Health will have completed the examination of all the projects received from the Regions for the Covid hospitals, pursuant to the I throw again decree; consequently they will be transmitted to the extraordinary commissioner for the emergency, in order to put in place, with extraordinary procedures, all the necessary requirements for their speediest realization. This is a fundamental step forward to strengthen our network of emergency, intensive and sub-intensive therapies and, at the same time, to make our hospitals safer, overcoming any form of promiscuity between the Covid and non-Covid networks. The third front is aimed at increasing health care personnel and strengthening the territory. This is an unprecedented job: we have invested more resources in the National Health Service in the last five months than in the last five years; we have now reached 29,433 recruitments, including 6,30 doctors, 13,607 nurses, 6,476 socio-health workers. The next step, with the definitive adoption of the I throw again decree, will be the permanent assumption of 9,600 community nurses: a historical turning point that will allow us to strengthen concretely the territorial services, which represent - as also this emergency has confirmed us - the fundamental bulwark to prevent and subsequently manage the sanitary emergencies. It is particularly strategic to invest on home services to fragile people, which will make Italy pass from 4% of the audience of cared over 65, to 6.7%; we pass, thanks to a single decree-law, from being two points below the average of OECD countries to 0.7 points above the same average. The investment in personnel is always crucial and is particularly so in these weeks, when our priority must be to recover visits and interventions that have been suspended because of Covid. Coronavirus - of course - has not stopped other diseases, starting with chronic ones or for example cancer, and now more than ever the National Health Service needs more energy to recover the accumulated delay. We must basically continue to invest and declare the season of cuts finally closed. The fourth front is the safe opening of the school: it is - in my opinion - the most important game, fundamental for our children and our future. Without the reopening of all schools of every order and rank we will never be completely out of lockdown. With the agreement reached on 26 June last in a unified conference between Regions, Provinces and Municipalities, we took an important step forward, sharing the guidelines and objectives to be pursued. It is an appointment that must be managed with the utmost caution and prudence, also in the light of the many difficulties in which the nations have encountered that before us have decided to open schools. The reopening of schools will affect about 10 million people. All the simulations made at the end of April to decide how to proceed with a gradual overcoming of the lockdown indicate in the school one of the most risky activities precisely because of the high number of people involved. For this reason, we must focus every attention on the reopenings of September and keep a level of monitoring on what will happen in the following months in schools. First of all, we are working on the definition of an organic prevention strategy. The school staff will be subjected to serological investigation - Commissioner Arcuri has already banned the kit competition - and is then under study a model molecular test sample to keep the student population under control during the year. The key to our work is to re-establish a closer contact between the school and the prevention department of the local health company. In the years of the cuts, with a wrong decision in my view, school medicine was archived, which had been regulated back in 1961. The principals, teachers and school staff cannot be left alone in the management of this difficult passage. For this reason it is - in my opinion - essential to rebuild a structured and not occasional relationship between school and health care, which unfortunately has been lacking for too long in our country. In September, the Scientific and Technical Committee will carry out a further check on how lessons can be resumed in full safety, including with regard to the use of masks and distance, obviously based on the trend of contagion. One thing seems certain and indisputable to me: the schools attended by our children and grandchildren will reopen; they are a fundamental value of the country to which we will devote all energy and further substantial economic and financial investments. At school there will have to be precautionary measures to match the situation; in school it must be possible to go in full safety. It is in this spirit that we intend to address the coming weeks and the recovery after August. I believe that we must do so by not losing the thread of a united effort. I know it's not easy, but we have to try. The search for maximum convergence in the management of this difficult health emergency is not a concession that the Government gives to oppositions, nor a discount that minorities make to the current parliamentary majority. For me it is simply the main way to get the country permanently out of the storm; it is the path of responsibility, the only - in my opinion - seriously viable in the priority and prevailing interest of our country. I hope that today's debate will meet this challenge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u13	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully, as I believe the whole House, to the Minister's speech and I must say that I have found it very consistent, precise, precise and at times even so exhaustive as to give the idea that perhaps the main flaw that can be pointed out is the pathology that we call the "completite," that is to say, to touch all the points and want to send out a precise, precise, articulated message and I hope that it can be verified on each of the points. This is what sometimes, at least from the opposition front, we see as an element of greater weakness of a Government that announces many things, all in all it intervenes also to correct the things it has announced and in some way always plays an image of itself that wants to be at the top of the needs. The first of the observations I feel like making is the one relating to the time of the emergency. You are here today to talk about emergency and in this regard the first question that everyone is asking is: how long will this emergency last? You have already told us quite rightly that we do not know, that a decision has not yet been taken, that it is a decision that will be taken with Parliament, but I do not hide from you that we have all already heard that the emergency will last until 31 December or until 30 August; now you tell us that for now the emergency will last until 30 July. At this stage the effort we make is to try to know what, of what you are telling us, really corresponds to decisions already made and what you really have in mind to compare with us to allow the most effective actions to emerge. The first thing we ask is therefore to know what has already been decided (and on which his intervention is therefore an information), what has not yet been decided and - I say this especially with regard to the opposition - what are the real margins to intervene with a positive contribution. You know better than I do, because tomorrow the decree will come to the House to relaunch, that the profound suffering of the Senate is that of having felt radically excluded from the debate. This we will tell him tomorrow many times, in so many ways, in so many circumstances, and I had the opportunity to say it today in the Commission, but the Senate on the I raise decree could not "touch the ball," it could not intervene in anything. [[Applause.]] I hope that this is not the case with this communication today, because you began by saying that an agenda has been adopted for which the Government intends to re-establish dialogue with Parliament, but as far as we are concerned, with concrete merit to the decree-law of tomorrow, this dialogue has not been there. Having said that, as far as health care is concerned, we are as concerned as you are, but I would like to start with the last point you touched, the school. Minister, you know more than we do how many contradictions have accompanied this issue to date. Parents don't know what's going to happen to their children. The Minister has already said that 15% of the children will have no place in the schools; mothers who wanted to enroll small children in the state or municipal kindergarten have been told that there was no place for three-year-olds, then approached the nearby peer school and they were told that that school would be closed. I am referring to a specific neighbourhood in Rome, which I am not talking about, nor is it putting threats into the void, it is a matter of concrete facts. The school has so far given us absolutely contradictory data and, Minister, we have heard only in terms of masks and single benches - we have now totally excluded plastic dividers - without even a word about the physiognomy that it will have to take after six months of closure, therefore in terms of evaluations, educational proposals, programmes or relations with students. Of this we have heard nothing, as well as about the life that will come to children with disabilities, that in these months have been totally excluded from the initiatives of distance teaching. [[Applause.]] Minister, please note one important thing: the specialist centres where these children go to re-education and rehabilitation have not been opened. We have opened hairdressers and beauty centers - fortunately the discos and more still not - but the rehabilitation centers for the kids have not been opened, so we have a band of supervulnerable people who have not been in the RSA or died of Covid, but that today we find much more fragile and weak than we left six months ago. There are so many beautiful things in what he said, but we want facts, measurable and concrete, and we really know what will happen. The government was generous, I would say munificent, in the promises: there was no category that felt excluded from the measures of any kind, but the family members - the famous caregivers - who spent their lives in these six months doing the teachers, rehabilitation, speech therapy, physiotherapists and therapists of the neuropsychocomotricity of the evolutionary age had nothing. [[Applause.]] This is a group of people, Minister, whom we entrust to you specifically. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I could go on for a very long time: give us facts and we will be with you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u15	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u16	Mr President, we would like to thank Minister Hope - addressing all colleagues in the government, the majority and the minority - for coming to this House promptly to report on the future development of the pandemic in the world. We share the fact that the enemy has not been defeated (we have noted that in fact the infected in the world have doubled) and that we cannot lower our guard; on this issue we must not divide ourselves at all. However, we also allow ourselves to add that we can no longer afford to be unprepared if we are faced - but clearly we do not hope so - with a second wave (or wave of return: technicians and scientists are certainly better at defining what might happen again). In our view, instead of issuing new decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers, which risk also harming personal freedoms as we have said several times, and thinking of extending the state of emergency (this is the invitation we make to the Government), which risks becoming more than anything a mechanism to guarantee health to the Executive and therefore the chair to Conte for the coming months rather than the health of the citizens, we would like you, Minister - or the President of the Council, but you too - to respond to the question 4-03768 that we presented last week, at the signing of the Lega Group, which basically asks whether the Government, together with the regions and local authorities, has in fact prepared and prepared a pandemic prevention plan. The best way to avoid frightening the population, to prepare and reassure it, is to tell the country that the Government, together with the Regions and all the agencies in charge, has a plan of prevention and, above all, that it opens a confrontation on this level with Parliament and with all the citizens making it known, so that everyone knows how to behave, for example, the explosion of new outbreaks. We can guarantee to the country that there will not be a new lockdown and that, in order to counter any new outbreaks, for example, will be established the red microzones, why can we no longer afford to close all the companies? Is this written somewhere? Another matter. Do we have every means of protecting our citizens this time? Let me give you an example: have we stocked up drugs, oxygen canisters, saturated meters, swabs, reagents? Do we have serological tests, masks and companies that can produce all of this? [[Applause.]] Are we ready? What I'm asking is that we avoid creating the usual counterpositions. I fully agree, as I have said several times, with someone from the minority who has spoken to say: instead of accusing one another - our intervention is mainly constructive - let us learn from the mistakes that have been made. Instead of contrasting the Government with the Regions, have we had a meeting - as I asked - at the beginning of the intervention, to ensure that there is synergy and collaboration between all the agencies in charge? Because if we are to face a pandemic it would be stupid to argue between different bodies; we all work together regardless of Article 116 of the Constitution, federalism, differentiated autonomy, Title V and so on; we work together in this direction. This is the request I'm making. Let's avoid continuing to make controversy about Lombardy, Veneto, Emilia-Romagna: everyone says his but we don't do a service to the country. Are we doing this by involving the State-Regions Conference and local authorities to ensure that this time everyone is able to be prepared to deal with the situation, avoiding lockdowns and problems for our entire economy? We have prepared an educational-information campaign that helps citizens understand how to behave, that we must not lower our guard, where the mask is to be worn, where perhaps we can be a little more tolerant and not put it? Is all this arranged in a plan? These are the questions we're asking. The best thing for us who are mainly constructively opposed is for Minister Hope to answer this question, come to the House and tell us what the plan is, so that we all take note of it and we are aware of it. At that point we would help ourselves to inform citizens of the existence of this plan. The important thing, Minister, is that this plan is there because we have not yet seen it. That's all, that's the purpose of our intervention. (Follow ROMEO) So it's not enough to think about the state of emergency. On 31 January the state of emergency was declared, but it is not that by declaring it we are sure to guarantee the health of the citizens (we have seen what happened then). It's not formalizing an act that we're sure things will be okay. Here we really need a prevention plan; show us and we will be very willing to cooperate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I believe that it is necessary for me to say first of all that I find the approach that the Minister gave to his speech extremely convincing. I find it convincing for the reasons for the substance of the decision that we have to take today, by voting on the motions for resolutions; it is - I remind myself and colleagues - the decision to extend until 31 July some basic precautionary measures and basic rules, which have proved to be very valuable to date and which I believe must remain in the field to protect the health of citizens. I find the Minister's appeal to the considerable number of new daily infections worldwide to be particularly convincing: 500,000 are an impressive number. Taking precautions with regard to arrivals from abroad is not isolationism, but it is a matter of realism and opportunity. I believe that these measures should first be extended and that it is understandable that we should proceed in this direction. The same applies to the basic rules on wearing masks, safety distance, bans on assembly, the importance of complying with safety standards in the workplace. I think that we must be aware of the importance of the rules and reiterate that there are sanctions for those who do not belong to the rules and behave in such a way as to endanger their own and other health. But beyond that, I find the general approach of the Minister's intervention convincing, who reminded us that our prudent reasoning and firm and alert line at all stages of the emergency has enabled us to respond with facts to those who have made unfounded criticisms of the action of our Government. Over the weeks, as the emergency evolved, we saw the critics and supporters of different lines discredited and discredited by reality. I think that this thoughtful and firm line of prudence must continue and I believe that there is no need to worry about the controversy, in my opinion, of those who spread accusations of non-respect for the Constitution, of ignoring Parliament's prerogatives, of going beyond the prerogatives and powers of the fundamental organs of the State and of undermining the balance of powers. I really think it's an out-of-the-box and out-of-the-box polemic. The Minister's words were extremely reassuring and extremely clear and I believe that we can deal with this second stage of the emergency, which is certainly a less acute phase of risk, thinking that the tunnel is not finished, but that the end of the tunnel certainly seems to be closer. I think that in the management of the measures which must be taken to avoid risks, a principle of proportionality can be adopted and we recognise that, in different circumstances, the margins for involvement in the first place preventive, but also subsequent and final evaluation of Parliament are wider than those that existed until a few weeks ago. I therefore very much welcome the Minister's commitment to ensuring that Parliament is the protagonist of the weeks before us, because I think we must adopt this approach. We are at a stage marked by great questions and great uncertainties. We hope to have taken a road that will quickly take us out of danger, but we cannot be sure of that. In such a situation nothing more must be done than what is necessary in terms of prevention, but nothing less. I believe that the government must keep this line, in full respect of Parliament and in keeping with its commitment to prior information when important acts are to be adopted. I also believe that an assessment of the most appropriate type of instrument to be adopted to deal with the new risks ahead is being carried out. Let us not divide ourselves into factions and ideological disputes that today concern the state of emergency and tomorrow another thing: let us try to reason for objectives; let us set the goal, define the necessity and then choose all together, without excluding anyone and without raping the prerogatives of anyone, the most appropriate instrument. I believe that if we follow this line we can continue to achieve important results. Of course, in this case too, it must be stressed that the sense of responsibility of the citizens and the great passion and dedication to the work of tens of thousands of health workers have been fundamental, together with the lucidity of those who had to make the most delicate decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u18	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u19	Mr President, what the Minister has said so far is the result of what he has said in this House and in his speeches to the press over the past few months: caution and caution because the virus still kills and infects hundreds of thousands of people around the world. It is true, therefore, that the battle is not won and the virus continues to circulate, but in view of the fact that the virologists he trusts claim that the virus will be defeated only when we have the vaccine, I wonder if it is his intention and the Government to extend the measures that he has just listed us until we arrive at this solution: we would be the only country in the world. Do you know how important it is for Forza Italia to protect the health of citizens and health workers, that we will never stop thanking and that they are still at the forefront of hospitals today; you also know our willingness to cooperate, but as a politician at 360 degrees you do not think you should trust a little'more Italians and much less of who in recent months has rocambolically changed your mind too many times? We expected that the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers' decree would give us the opportunity to open up, to enlarge, because if we continue to keep our cities closed, people are suffering from the lack of work and the freedom to walk our streets without having to think that they are always penalized because of the care of others. We would have expected him to trust a little more the politician who is in her rather than, once again, the Technical and Scientific Committee, who continues to give discordant communications on what is needed or not to be done, or the World Health Organization, confused every other day about how the infection happens or about gloves (if they are to be used or thrown away). We would have expected you to decide, of course with conscience and following the technicians, but also thinking about how to behave for the good of the country. True, the messages coming from the Government suggest, especially in other European countries, that Italy continues to be at risk, because we also know that the rise of the contagion index is primarily due to a lack of control also of migrants coming from the Balkan route: we know that in Emilia-Romagna and Lazio they have increased for all the contagions of workers returned from Bangladesh. The policy of maximum rigour was certainly appreciated when our hospitals were full of patients in intensive care, but perhaps now we should apply that maximum rigour for health protection at the borders of our coasts. What protocols, what controls are planned for these incoming ships? What do you think of the alarm launched by the Italian secret services on the possible landing on our territory of at least 20,000 immigrants from Libya? Do you continue to allow non-governmental organizations to land them and hullists to earn money? Do we have the facilities to contain the contagion with the resident population or do we have to expect that in the Southern regions, which fortunately have not had very high peaks of Covid patients, hospitals and intensive therapies will be filled? That mistake made at the beginning, when it was said that everything would go well, that our country was very ready and there was no need to be afraid, we have to repeat it, or is it necessary to prepare a plan that takes into account possible emergency health situations with the arrival of further illegal immigrants? I think we should present a pandemic plan. The first pandemic plan was presented by the Berlusconi Government in 2005 for the aviary, updated in 2009 for swine flu, then the darkness: there is not yet, yet it is from January-February that we are in this state and a plan for the pandemic this government has not yet updated it, nor above all presented it! [[Applause]] Now, since it is not possible to prepare a plan or at least small things for the arrival of the illegals, let the presidents of the Region decide whether to authorize the country holidays or the opening of the discotheques, but also give them the opportunity to protect their citizens and those who still wish, perhaps, to go on vacation with the families without risking to take the Covid because the reception centers are out of control. I will not allow myself to comment on what the newspapers have written regarding the possibility of deciding to shift the state of emergency at the end of the year, legitimizing personal restrictions to which we are strongly opposed. However, there will be ways and means of doing so with President Conte, who we hope will come to this House and explain clearly the reasons for this important choice. What I would like from you, Minister, is an act of courage. The same that he did to close the entrances to those coming from the countries most affected and that have caused new outbreaks in our country. Maybe there would be something to say about the episode of US citizens sent back on a plane while, only in the last few days, we had more than a thousand illegal migrants certainly without passport and without control, but let's avoid it. [[Applause]] Do we have the courage to look at the millions of Italians who suffer the economic crisis due to this situation and, rather than starve, at this point would they gladly take the Covid? We avoid feeding the social crisis that every day is becoming bigger than the health emergency that we have experienced so far. For the social crisis, the vaccine exists: for example, the cutting of taxes or at least their slippage, the stabilization of precarious people, real state aid for businesses and the economy, not the "couch subsidies." Our proposals, including in the area of health, have been explained several times to you. The acronym MES, so hated by one part of the majority, could also be useful in this regard. Please do not let the virus of demagogy and populism infect you, but make yourself bearer of the same values as our health service for the protection of the health of citizens who want to continue living in a free and democratic country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u20	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that after the Minister's report I have not yet understood, apart from the extension to 31 July 2020, whether and when there will be an extension of the state of emergency, whether and when you will involve Parliament and how. I have not even honestly understood the reasons and the scientific and technical reasons on which you will then base your decisions. Who is your advisor, the fired members who belong to the task forces and committees? Those who suggest using apps that then go to monitor lifestyles, consumption and health status, waiting for a vaccine that you don't know if it will ever be there? In fact, the virus has had, according to the latest studies of Imperial College, about 200 mutations. Or do you refer and have support from those scientists who say the virus is in the air? But in all this, Minister, there are also other scientists, those who say that there will be no second wave, those who work silently, those who are ridiculed because they do not belong to the official line. Well, then you tell us, and you tell the Italians, what are the scientists whose guidelines you put at the base of your reasons, or the only reason why you want to continue talking about an emergency state is because it suits this Government and makes your game that falls on the fears of the Italians because you cling to the armchairs? You are a government born in the rooms of a palace, not legitimized by the citizens' vote, divided over everything, and you remain there only thanks to this emergency, which holds and acts as a glue. [[Applause]] Do you know that people don't care? That there are guys who are afraid to hug their grandparents who don't leave the house? I don't think you realize how much damage has been in the management of this emergency so far. Otherwise, if you know and if you are aware of what they are, then you do not care about people, you do not care about health, but only about your interests. Minister, I really don't understand that. [[Applause]] But Italians will judge you; I am convinced that Italians already have a very clear idea. It has been a month since the general states were there and I must say that the cosmic void has emerged from these: there is nothing. There is no plan that gives a vision for future generations; nothing for the weakest, except perhaps have the extension of the ban on dismissal (this, however, is not a policy for the weakest); there are no policies for companies: zero, absolutely zero. We need different, far-sighted leaders. Strong guarantee institutions, shared values and principles are needed. Of course, our beautiful President of the Count Council cannot be called forward-looking, except for his own personal gain, certainly not for that of the Italians. As well as, when we talk about institutions, the Palamara case speaks for itself. Here too, however, Minister Bonafede is quite clinging to his chair, just as the prisoners are all at home, well released according to his provisions. Not to mention the school, with a very embarrassing minister who was stationed by a Commissioner who was also embarrassing, because, however, he was late on everything. [[Applause]] Mr. Minister, I really do believe that some of your colleagues have no modesty at all. To come to values (which for us are society and the family), we see that they have been subverted. Priority is given to immigrants, transgenders and other issues that have nothing to do with those values. What is your teaching to our young people? What are you giving him? What are the values and principles of future society? That's not common sense. Here you go beyond common sense and decorum! [[Applause]] And then Parliament, which you turned into a voter. At first, there was some bon ton. If nothing else, at least at first reading you did not put your trust. Then, you have passed this too and you have come to put trust immediately, on all decrees-laws, since the first reading. You have then gone much further, introducing the period of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers when this Parliament has absolutely not been able to intervene on anything. Minister, I know that you are aware that there are legal instruments: there are decrees-laws, there are orders that can be counted and urgent in the matter of health and hygiene. We need no exceptional means of applying them, Minister. Our system already has the instruments. In the resolution we have tabled, we make suggestions. We take away all alibi from you in saying that minorities do not cooperate. You have rejected all our amendments, systematically, in all the measures; then, however, you take them to bits and bits and put them in yours, copying also badly, because they are fragmented and out of a logic. [[Applause]] There are clear points in the resolution that we have tabled, so you are not embarrassed to think about how to do things. There are no limitations on constitutional rights. We care about the health of our citizens and we care about their safety, without blocking the whole of Italy. This is crucial to us. What excuse will you adopt, Minister, not to vote on our resolution and to bypass Parliament once again? You may not answer here today, but you will do so in front of the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u22	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say to the kind Minister that today I suspect that the utmost caution he has indicated seemed excessive and unjustified to us. Not for nothing, Minister, I remind you - if you have not noticed us - that we are the only country in all the countries of the European Union to take this position; therefore, that should tell you something. On the other hand, we believe that it corresponds more to a Government's desire to extend a state of awe on the part of all citizens and that at the basis, perhaps, there is your hope of increasing consensus. I would advise you, Minister, rather than continue to encourage the anxiety of citizens by amplifying the dangers (as you have done in your report today) of an emergency that absolutely does not exist today (we do not say so, the data that are known to all Italians and that every evening they have the opportunity to listen), I believe that the Government should take a much more balanced attitude: to be able to preserve the health of all citizens (who care about us as well as you) but, at the same time, to worry about getting the economy back on track. You see, Minister, health is extremely important and today we are all happy that this Covid pandemic is under control (as we see from the Covid hospitals that are closing and the number of beds in the ICU), but perhaps you still do not understand what will produce, on the other hand, the economic crisis, which does not yet appear to us in its - alas - real size, but when you realize it we would not want it to be too late. We do not want this government to have the same attitude as it used in January 2020, when the whole of the Commission lost a month because it wanted to calm down its citizenship. We saw exponents and leaders of political parties who came to Milan to make aperitifs, with many gatherings, or mayors of important cities who said that it was necessary to embrace the Chinese because there was no problem. Since then you have lost so much time, we would not want you to waste any more time now not taking care of what this nation will suffer because of the pandemic - which is certainly no one's fault - from an economic point of view. Mr Minister, also with regard to the possibility of extending the state of emergency - and I hope that I have misunderstood the fact that you have spoken about an agenda - we have already spoken about our opposition, and I also make clear to you the reasons for quoting not my words, but those of a constitutionalist, Professor Cassese, on the evening Corriere. According to Professor Cassese there are many reasons not to extend the state of emergency until 31 December. And specifies: For a state of emergency to be declared or extended, it is not enough for there to be fear or prediction of a calamitous event. There needs to be a current emergency condition. Well, today this emergency is absolutely not confirmed by the numbers; therefore, I believe that the problem - not only by my own voice, but also by Cassese's voice - is not there. Therefore, Minister, we ask the entire Government, rather than continuing to limit the personal freedoms of all Italian citizens, to control the landings in our nation. [[Applause]] It will not escape you that the numbers are merciless and are increasing exponentially. Moreover there are no controls there and we see it every day, because they are widely documented by the press all the escapes from these reception centers of immigrants who should stand there doing quarantine and instead go around quietly, without being limited in anything, throughout the national territory, carrying around the Covid-19. I believe, Minister, that today it is urgent to accept the proposal of Brothers of Italy, which has always been that of the naval blockade, because it is the only instrument at our disposal to stop the trafficking of boatmen and illegal immigration. Not only does he not listen carefully, Minister, but I understand that the difference is clear, because our position is that perhaps it is better not to limit individual freedoms, but to control these illegal migratory flows that no one controls and nobody deals with. The wolf loses his hair, but not his habit. You said on 11 January last, Minister, - and I would like to quote your words - that from then on there would be a confrontation with the opposition, a clear dialectic between majority and opposition; a confrontation in all areas, starting with the political forces present in Parliament. Well, you presented yourself today - and we all know that the decree is due - by reading us a series of beautiful prepacked measures. This Parliament, to which we will have to show respect, is treated as we were all paper-cards or spectators. The mask serves, yes, but it serves to put the gag on us of the opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u24	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hope's presentation was very convincing. We continue the measures for a few weeks, for alarm infection abroad we add the ban on entry into Italy for a number of countries and adopt measures that the Italia Viva-PSI Group considers proportionate and reasonable, linked - as they are - to the principle of temporality. What we can say - and this is the reason why we share his motives - is that in the case of the pandemic and in many other cases that history manifests, history has not been - as it is claimed - Magistrate Vitae, but it has been the opposite, because especially around us there have been repeated errors and procedures that were decidedly known since ancient times. We see as a positive factor - as you said at the end of your report - the conciliation with Parliament, provided for in a rule (but beyond the rule) has become a sort of non-marginal but fixed course of action. It is a convincing decision and I would like it to mean - and I will return in a few minutes - a sort of overcoming of the institutional emergency. If we were to deal with such sensitive cases of emergency in the future, such as those dealt with between February and March, I would therefore like this criterion to be used on a permanent basis, which exceeds that adopted over the last few months. Having no objection to this, I prefer to use the minutes I have left for five considerations. The first: during the months of the pandemic we have declared heroes the doctors and their assistants for the activity they have carried out. Perhaps now we should use less of the adjective "heroes" and put in place a series of activities. There are many, about 170, doctors and health workers who have lost their lives and who have not been recognized as an accident at work. Perhaps the time has come to deal with the issue with the delicacy and determination proper to a civilized country, which is able to reread also some rules in the face of crisis situations and extraordinary emergency. The second of the questions: I would remove, Minister Hope, the arrangement that we now listen to in all the stations of Italy, in all the airports of Italy, which is wrong: it is not social distance, it is physical distance. We use physical and non-social distance. Thirdly, I would like to add and stress some of the considerations you have made and then come to the conclusions; I also recommend close and determined coordination between the Regions and the Government, without forgetting the cities. In fact, over the course of these months the Regions have worked constantly with the Government, a little less - I think - the municipalities. But since the big cities are decisive in the institutional structure and in the measures taken, the ANCI must also sit permanently at that table. Finally, three considerations. The first has already been done by you and I emphasize it with equal force and with greater determination: the state of emergency must be handled with care, indeed with great care, so that the exceptional norms do not become in some way the norm of reference. If the government were to move in this field, at least consider working on it with a decree-law, no longer with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, and have reference to the two Chambers, in those discusses and bear the reasons why we could find ourselves (use the conditional of the verb power: we could find ourselves) also in the paradox of having again the state of emergency with regional, administrative and referendum elections convened precisely in the body of the emergency. The second point concerns schools. There are some measures envisaged in the article of the decree to relaunch. My model, the model of my children was not - perhaps for one yes - the model of Gian Burrasca, but physicality is part of teaching, especially in primary schools. If there is no physicality, the ability and ability to teach fall and lose value. Because, despite the extraordinary efforts of a great brain (Oxford) and a small, but not mediocre, Italian, Roman, company of Pomezia, despite an extraordinary effort and a miracle, we will not be able to have the mass vaccine over a few weeks (because the vaccine seems to be at an excellent point, but we will not be able to assure Italy and other countries the mass vaccination), knowing how the schools will reopen becomes a decisive factor. In conclusion, I would like to point out something that is not linked to a number, but rather avoid quoting numbers. I am horrified when I hear about Covid-19 numbers in Africa; in Africa there is one doctor every 20,000-30,000 people and knowing how many are the sick or the dead of Covid-19 in Africa is absolutely impossible. I say this to urge attention to the landings that may be there. We refer to this in the resolution: security and surveillance measures must be put in place in quarantine that are not burdensome for communities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u26	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u27	Mr President, the Minister has spoken to us today about various subjects and I will address them one by one, saying what we think and what I think. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 July is the extension, until 31 July, of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 June and of the ordinances of the Ministry of Health of 30 June and 9 July. Therefore, the annex contains new guidelines for information to users and organisational arrangements for the containment of the dissemination of the Covid-19 in the field of public transport. It is therefore legitimate and makes sense to extend them. These are orders and they do not need an emergency procedure. I believe that we all agree on some issues: physical distance, masks in closed places, travel discipline, closure of borders where necessary, targeted lockdowns. The Minister of Health's orders are sufficient for all this. Let us now come to the proclamation of the state of emergency. The Law of 24 February 1992, No 225, derogates from the fundamental rules on the rights of citizens and the powers of Parliament, establishing that such derogations must be temporary (a maximum of 180 days which can be extended for a maximum of one hundred and eighty days), reasonableness (so based not on forecasts but on actual needs) and proportionality (in the sense of providing for the minimum of derogations necessary to the rights of persons and the powers of Parliament). Let's be clear - I say this also as a scientist (I worked for 20 years at IRBM where the vaccine is made and therefore I speak with knowledge of the cause) - at this moment in our country there is neither a pandemic nor an emergency: there is a possible recurrence of a pandemic, but it is more likely that the pandemic will turn into an endemia. Therefore, it makes no sense to proclaim an emergency state like that of January, when instead we were faced with something totally unknown that had to be studied. Extending the state of emergency is now a very different decision, because there is in-depth knowledge of the actual need and especially the contours of this pandemic that was not there in January. Therefore, I really urge the Minister to reflect. I speak on behalf of not everyone, but certainly of my colleagues Nugnes, De Falco and Di Marzio, together with whom I have given the confidence to this Government: we are strongly opposed to a total state of emergency until December, but also October, because it is, again, a possible and probable danger, but - indeed - a danger and not a real emergency. The Minister also mentioned the vaccine, which I would like to focus on. Having worked on the vaccine platform for more than twenty years, I want to invite you to caution because in reality the SARS-CoV-1 vaccine has never been developed for various reasons: it is complex diseases and vaccines involve overactivation of the immune system and have essentially two critical issues (I allow myself to speak in this way). The first problem is that it is not known how long the neutralizing response against this virus lasts and, therefore, the effectiveness of a vaccine is not assured. Let's not put ourselves in the head that we will return to normal only when there is the vaccine, because it is not said that there will be an effective and lasting vaccine. As for the second critical issue, I see with concern that we will have a vaccine in October or spring. This is not the case. It takes at least two or three years to make an effective and safe vaccine. Therefore, we avoid derogations from the normal phase 3 testing rules. I also say this with an invitation to answer a question that I have put on this subject; on the website of the Ministry of Health we talk about compassionate therapy for a vaccine, which makes no sense because a vaccine is something that prevents and does not cure. In addition to the safety profiles that the administration of a vaccine may have, in this type of disease there is also another type of reaction called antibody-dependent enhancement, which could cause greater dangers to those who make the vaccine, giving an overactivation of the immune response. I say this to invite caution. I'm so glad that I'm getting a vaccine from IRBM, but it needs to go through all the clinical trials that are needed. It takes two years. Let no one think of using it as compassionate therapy, as it is written on the website of the Ministry of Health: this makes no sense and I take advantage of it to say so here. As far as school is concerned, this is an issue that we must address in Parliament. We can't think that school is the mask, the single desk, just the safety of the students. At this moment, scientists tell us that children get infected with great difficulty and, when that happens, they have far less serious answers than adults do. On the contrary, it has been shown that the psychological repercussions of lockdown and isolation on children and adolescents are very important. I cannot hear Arcuri say that in September we will produce 10 million masks a day, with the use of resources that would be much more useful to use for building new school complexes, hiring new teachers and thinking of a different school. I do not want to say that the Scientific and Technical Committee is not useful - it is - but it is Parliament that knows how school should evolve from September onwards and how school activities should be resumed. Let us not reduce ourselves to masks, distances and isolations, because this is not the idea of a country that we, who have also given the trust to this Government, want to support. We agree, therefore, on the need for caution, the extension of the measures to be taken, on targeted lockdowns, on the shutdown of new outbreaks, on the need to invest in a safe and durable vaccine, which is done in Italy with all the safety rules related to it, but the invitation is to do so here in Parliament, all together, especially those who have given confidence to this Government and who do not want to see it come to the House to say that we are in emergency, that it is all government and we ratify. We want to work as a majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u28	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u29	Mr Minister, I welcomed what you said in your report today, partly because you said very important things and here we still have to retrace the story of what happened, even if only six months ago. Ever since the World Health Organization declared the pandemic, the Government has assumed responsibility, with a resolution of 31 January in which it indicated that there was a state of emergency. From then on, of course, documents, decrees and decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers have followed, but I would like to remind you that the state of emergency was not born by chance. Suffice it to say that Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2 January 2018 (Civil Protection Code), article 7 provides that emerging civil protection events are national emergencies related to natural calamitous events or deriving from human activity that can be faced with extraordinary means and powers to be used during limited and predefined periods of time. So it was: limited and predefined time limits. Today, Minister, there is nothing but an extension in accordance with another decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 June, in Article 11, where it is said that the provisions of the decree apply on 15 June until 14 July. This is being done until July 31st. Nobody said anything else, no one said anything about an additional emergency. Of course Parliament will have to say its own thing about this, but no one here has said that we are going further. The Premier will say this, as you said, when he comes to Parliament, as we wish. In the meantime, let us pay attention to what is going on and let us not be confused about it at least, given that citizens obviously need to be careful about what is going on and there could be really confusion about everything we are doing right now. You have reported on the status of the virus, it is true that the virus is still among us and the new outbreaks prove it. I come from Emilia-Romagna, Bologna, where there are important outbreaks in the logistics sector. We have seen other outbreaks that are expanding in some activities, we know that monitoring is taking place and therefore the fact that emergency action is being taken to isolate these small outbreaks obviously serves to have adequate measures. The Regions can obviously lockdown in case of necessity and this is what has been said in previous decrees and also when we have put in place the serological investigation, which serves to control and monitor the situation, the presence of the virus in our country. What you have to do is be absolutely careful, also because the Italians were very good at the times when the emergency was declared and this is sharing. Let us remember, however, that the sale of masks has fallen and it almost seems that you should not even bring it anymore. Now, I would like to remind you of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 June, containing annexes for all activities in which security measures must be respected. Even here, there are things already written, you must not invent anything. In previous speeches it has been said that a plan for the pandemic would be needed: of course, it would be necessary; in my opinion, however, it would be appropriate to do so downstream of what happened. During this time, we are learning a lot of things and we have tested them (scientists and medical professionals have also told us so). We went on thinking of doing the right thing and we noticed it after whether it was or not, so we take inspiration from what happened, obviously trying to limit its criticalities in order to improve the conditions: I think this is the attitude to take, that is to monitor, check, verify and then put in place; after, yes, we could prepare a protocol to avoid pandemics, but after seeing what has already happened. You, Minister, have also given further indications, which you mentioned (vaccine; Covid hospitals on the net; territorial health, which is fundamental). I say this once again: it is right that we are close to our citizens and their needs, but immediately, when the need arises. I think this is the right way. Another thing, however, I have to say: we are putting in place a number of measures, but we are also giving them the opportunity, when it is time, to be slim. For this reason the decree simplifications is born, on which really it is necessary to give an important cue, also because the health companies need to make purchases with immediacy, at the moment when it is needed. It is not possible that they expect two years to have the acquisition of the necessary materials. See, then, how many things fit into each other. In my opinion, with the dialectic between the Government and Parliament, we must move forward on this path, without lowering our guard, because - as we have already seen - the virus has not disappeared. We must also be careful from the point of view of the citizens and, as citizens, have the civic sense to respect the rules - which are not so many, but only three or four - for the good not only of us, but also and above all of the weakest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u31	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although I am the son of two scientists, I know less about science than would be necessary. Also for this, but not only, I do not enter into the dispute between rigorists and negationists that is going through our scientific world. But I know something about the methodology of social sciences and then, Minister, let me correct you on this: zero risk does not exist. Living is a risk, especially from the point of view of medical science: there is no scientist who will one day tell us that we are at zero risk, because it is scientific what can be falsified and denied. From this comes, Minister, a conception and an idea of the emergency that for me is a leap into the void, even in the light of the experience we have experienced together. Let us return to those days, when we did not know whether Parliament could meet or not, whether our colleagues could come from other cities, or how to summon us or vote; this was the climate in which we voted on the emergency rules. Now, nobody claims that everything is over, but simply that we have lived an experience and that we are no longer in that situation today. Minister, Italy lives in the world in which other Western countries also live: Belgium stopped the emergency on 30 June; Cyprus on 17 May; the Czech Republic on 14 May; Estonia on 17 May; Finland on 15 June; Hungary on 16 June; Latvia on 9 June; Luxembourg on 24 June; Romania on 15 May; Slovakia on 12 June; Spain on 21 June; Lithuania on 10 June; Malta on 16 June; Poland on 2 June; France on 24 July. I do not believe that any of these nations is more unconscious than we are; there is probably an idea of the emergency that is more similar to what I have identified, rather than the one that I have grasped from his words. What is related to a possible extension of the state of emergency? Mr. Minister, I have two consequences and both - I have to tell you the truth - I'm a little scared. One from an institutional point of view: at a time of emergency, when - I repeat - we did not know whether Parliament could meet or not, we did not plan to sit the senators in the stands, we did not foresee the possibility of voting in the closets, in short we did not foresee the way to be together, we made the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers with primary legislative source, where they - you know - represent a secondary legislative source. And with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers we have in some cases also affected constitutional freedoms. Even the FAQs published on a Ministry's website had legislative force at a time of emergency. Mr Minister, I repeat: your studies are quite thorough and you know that in our system there are decree-laws which are necessary and urgent measures. They have been and still are improperly used by all governments, right, left, center, to try to move forward. But once necessity and urgency really exist, we take this instrument and set it aside. You have made a strong plea for Parliament; the only way to translate it into action is to restore the hierarchy of sources and return to Parliament at least a role of control. The state of emergency also acts on social life. I am not a negator at all; I have probably read, like you, Quammen's "Spillover" and have come to the conclusion that we have underestimated the pandemics for many years, regardless of the coronavirus. And if we have to learn something from what we've been through, it's that the real emergency is to change our normality and somehow govern what's happened in these months, even if, according to his conception, we get to zero risk. We can no longer be in Parliament in the same way; we can no longer go to work in the same way; we can no longer be in school in the same way; we cannot go to a football stadium in the same way. What we must therefore do is govern change, making it compatible with economic sustainability. This is the real emerging challenge ahead of us. However, in order to do this, a vision is needed. I hope the government communicates it to us and does not tell us, in fact, that its only vision is the emergency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u33	Mr President, it seems to us that the Government has different aims than those stated. It is intended to pass through communications on containment measures of the Covid-19 virus by adopting a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers which is the antechamber to justify the announced extension of the extreme measures of national emergency. Now, it is quite clear that the virus is now being approached in a completely different way, especially for prompt tracking and early diagnosis, which were absolutely not standardized at the beginning of the epidemic. So fortunately, the stress test that our health system was subjected to in March-April will not be replicated. What is lacking is a real system of national pandemic prevention, surveillance, control and international prophylaxis. [[Applause]] , to which the Government has listened as a merchant, transferring the chain of territorial responsibilities, also to the world of businesses and individual behaviors. We have had the opportunity to propose on several occasions an anti-pandemic plan, which at least today should be enriched by the very recent experience and the increasing clinical, pharmacological and organizational knowledge, but, as it comes from an unwelcome opposition, it is not even taken into consideration; whereas, instead, with its prompt adoption, the many structural vulnus that have contributed to the deepening of the economic crisis will be resolved. It would be sufficient, as far as the health sector is concerned, to set up a national emergency centre (on the CDC model), by delegation to skills and knowledge already present at the Ministry of Health, such as the Centre for Disease Control, with a steering booth at the top integrated by the Higher Institute of Health and a qualified State-Regions representative. If there is a recurrence of epidemics (a far from remote hypothesis), this directing booth will be able to give timely and prescriptive indications to the Civil Protection on the actions to be undertaken and on the tools to be used. All this on the basis of an updated pandemic plan of prevention and pandemic control, which in fact is a gap that could have already been filled in the conversion of Decree-Law No. 34 of 2020, so as to exclude any need to resort, for the same case, to the state of national emergency referred to in article 7, paragraph 1, letter c) of Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2018, which should not keep to health emergencies, especially and even more in this case, as it would be a déjà vu. If on something new and historically unique it is justifiable that exceptionally decide the Government, of a case not only already known, but now qualifyable to low criticality, it is more than enough that a technical body and that the fundamental prerogatives on constitutional freedoms are subject to careful safeguard, are in essence safeguarded from the risk of possible arbitrary distortions. As I conclude, Mr President, national governance of pandemic control and prevention continues to be disregarded, which is the basis of any anti- and post-Covid programme for the renewal and adaptation of the health system, for a proper balance in prevention, in territorial medicine and in hospital, through corrections to the general rules of engagement and updating of the network, with targeted investments that will allow in the future to have more performance at lower expense. This is to safeguard all the essential levels of assistance (LEA), including those under discussion, information, education, prevention, care and care of infectious diseases and to ensure that the possibility of a new pandemic wave does not have further adverse effects. Emergencies like that of the Covid have hurt, and if it is not remedied they will do more and more, to those who are more fragile, not only from the health and socio-sanitary, but economic and social point of view. Instead of welfare measures destined to end unproductively, it is necessary to act immediately in pandemic prevention, as a fundamental lever for the contrast of social and economic vulnerabilities, precondition of individual and collective well-being and inescapable presupposition for overcoming the economic emergency that we are experiencing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, kind Minister, thank you for your comprehensive report, which you have made clear that the extension of the measures provided for in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 June is a necessary act. I have the impression that the misconception is spreading in the country that the emergency is over and that we are forgetting what it was. Let me therefore remind you here of some data extracted from the Istat report entitled "Impact of the Covid-19 epidemic on the total mortality of the population resident in the first quarter of 2020." Considering the month of March alone, there is a 49.4% increase in deaths for all causes at the average national level; if the period from the first Covid death (on 20 February) to the 31 March is taken as a reference, the deaths increase from 65.592, which is the average for the period 2015-2019, to 90,946 in 2020. Over-deaths at national level are 25,354. Due to the strong concentration of the phenomenon in some areas of the country, data referring to the national average level flatten the dimension of the impact of the Covid epidemic on total mortality. 91 percent of the excess mortality found at the national average level in March 2020 is concentrated in the highly diffused areas of the epidemic, about 3,000 municipalities in 37 North Provinces plus Pesaro and Urbino. In all of these provinces, deaths for all of the causes more than doubled compared to the March average 2015/2019. In view of the period from 20 February to 31 March, deaths increased from 26,218 to 49,351, and more than 23,000. Within this group, the provinces most affected by the epidemic paid a very high price in human lives, with percentage increases in deaths in March 2020, compared to the previous three-digit period. Just to name a few: Bergamo +568 percent, Cremona +391 percent, Brescia +291 percent, Pesaro-Urbino +120 percent. In medium or low diffusion areas the increases were significantly lower. Among these there are some for which the mortality for Covid is not established but it is highly possible that there is an indirect connection with the Covid or, finally, that a share of indirect mortality is not directly related to the virus but has been caused by the crisis of the hospital system and the fear of going to hospital in the areas most affected by the virus. I hope that these numbers will permanently dispel the doubts that sometimes some self-appointed doctor camps on the Internet about the danger of Covid and the actual mortality. It was truly a tragedy of proportions never seen in Italy, we must not forget it and we must not lower our guard. To date, there are 243,344 cases and 34,948 deaths in Italy. Over 13 million confirmed cases worldwide and nearly 600,000 dead. The cases, in these last days, are rising at a rate of over 200,000 per day. Also in Italy we have new outbreaks where security measures are falling: in our companies, among our workers, in Veneto, Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna and among people mainly coming regularly from foreign countries. This should make us understand clearly that the virus has not lost strength, it is not less aggressive. It was our Government that put in place the right measures to deal with the emergency, as the Director-General of the World Health Organization has also said. In March, Italy and Spain were the epicenter of Covid's pandemic. At the height of the epidemic, Italy counted more than 6,500 new cases a day. The country has brought the situation under control with a combination of leadership, humility, active participation of every member of society and a global approach. A frightening situation has been addressed, but it has been reversed. I mean, it is in everyone's eyes that the global health emergency is not over, as you said, Minister. In Italy we are in a phase of coexistence with the virus but I am sure that we will all be able to choose together the appropriate measures to deal with it properly in the coming months. The knowledge of the disease has increased and we have put in place all the measures to deal with a possible recurrence of the epidemic. We have strengthened our National Health Service, steadily increasing the health staff, the staff to whom it must go and to whom our gratitude goes for what has been done so far. We can and must enhance early diagnosis, especially for those who come from abroad, through a greater spread of serological and molecular tests, hopefully as quickly as possible. We need to keep up with scientific and technological innovation, never like at this time. Only in this way can we think, in the immediate future, of being able to put an end to the few limitations that still exist but that are indispensable to protect all of us and to limit as much as possible the risk of a second wave of contagion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u36	I declare the debate on the Minister's communications closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u37	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of two members of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data: [[Senators present 273 Senators voting 272]] They got votes: [[Agostino Ghiglia 123 Pasquale Stanzione 121 William Turcinovic 1 Ignazio La Russa 1 Alberto Gambino 1 Umberto Rapetto 1 Giuseppe Stefano Quintarelli 1 White cards 10 No cards 13]] Proclamation elected Agostino Ghiglia, with 123 votes, and Pasquale Stanzione, with 121 votes. I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications: [[Senators present 273 Senators voting 272]] They got votes: [[Laura Aria 123 Elisa Giomi 110 Agostino Ghiglia 2 Pasquale Stanzione 2 Emilio Carelli 1 Vito Crimi 1 Alessandra Maiorino 1 Giuseppe Stefano Quintarelli 1 Angelo Zaccone Teodosi 1 White cards 22 Nulle cards 8]] I proclaim elected Laura Aria, with 123 votes, and Elisa Giomi, with 110 votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u38	I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2, No 2, No 3 by Senator Malan and other senators, No 3 by Senators De Petris, Perilli, Marcucci, Faraone and Unterberger, No 4 by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other senators have been tabled. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the Minister of Health, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u39	Mr President, I will reply in just a few minutes. In the meantime, I would like to express gratitude to all the senators and senators who have wished to speak and to make their contribution to this useful debate. It seems to me that there is a fundamental sharing on one point: it is clear that the country is in a new phase and at a different stage. I have tried to use these words: we are out of the storm, but we are not yet in a safe harbor. This means that the enormous sacrifices made by our citizens, the strict measures taken by the national government and the regions have allowed us to overcome the most difficult phase, but it is clear that we are not yet safe and that we need the highest possible level of caution. The subject, the issue, which we are most concerned about at this stage, is, of course, the global framework. If, in fact, this analysis is correct and correct for Italy, if this analysis is correct and correct for Europe, it certainly is not so at world level, where things get worse week after week and we are basically at the peak of this curve. I would like to remind myself and the Senate Chamber that, on Sunday alone, there have been 228,000 more cases in just twenty-four hours: the absolute record of these months of the Covid-19. It is clear, therefore, that we cannot consider this battle closed and that we will have to continue to have a very high level of attention. The measures that remain active are some of the essential measures, in addition to those that clearly concern the control and monitoring issues for the arrivals and the accesses of foreign countries and I will do everything possible to ensure that this happens in the utmost rigour. To date there is a list of entry and transit bans, even for 13 countries, and there is quarantine for all arrivals from non-Schengen and non-EU countries, but it is quite clear that there are three fundamental rules that we must absolutely ask our citizens to maintain again. It is three rules that remain the key principles. Among these, the use of masks and protective devices and the distance of at least one meter. In this respect, I agree with the indication that we did not use the term "social allocation": it is a physical distance of at least one metre, but it is really important. The third rule is the use of basic hygiene measures, starting with hand washing. These three principles remain essential, they are the three decisive weapons to try to face the phase of coexistence. Here too - I repeat just for a moment - I believe that we must not make the mistake of contradicting the health issue with the economic and social issue. I think exactly the opposite: I believe that health victory is the fundamental prerequisite for economic and social restart. There will not be enough national, international, regional measures or interventions, the efforts that are being made if we do not have the ability to control the virus. Let us not contradict each other, therefore: they are two pieces of a strategy that we must absolutely try to keep together. On the matter of the state of emergency I think I have used words of great clarity: no decision has been taken. Personally, I think it is essential that we have a debate with Parliament. The President of the Council of Ministers will be here by the end of this month by the end of the state of emergency, and he will have a clear opportunity to make a real, tight comparison. I have also pointed out my point of view: I believe that we must strike a balance and that there can be a possible balance between the absolute need to respect Article 32 of the Constitution, therefore to defend health protection, and at the same time the need to fully respect Parliament's prerogatives, primary sources and our democratic system. Also in this regard, let me repeat just for a moment a concept that I touched quickly in my introduction, but that seems particularly significant: at the beginning of this epidemic, when we saw the images of China and the incredible measures that were taken in that country, many commentators pointed out how impossible it would be, in a country of freedoms, in a country of democracy and the protection of individual rights rightly brought to yet another power, to manage the emergency. Well, I think history has proven exactly the opposite. My opinion is that democracy has been a strength. We have not bent that curve as a result of measures of a security nature that we imposed on the country; we have bent that curve because we have managed to build a deep harmony with the citizens of this country, who at some point have fully grasped the risk that we were running and have basically put themselves in a spirit absolutely responsible for collaboration with respect to the measures that were put in place at national and regional level. I therefore think that we must work to build this balance; my opinion is that the conditions are all there. As I said, we will continue to work on some essential points. I spoke about vaccines: it is clear that the vaccine for us is a horizon to be cultivated with great conviction, and to see that Italy is head-to-head in this game, even with skills and knowledge, with high-level industrial activities that are recognized by our international interlocutors, certainly goes in the right direction. The task of the institutions will obviously be to verify safety and do everything necessary for the vaccine to arrive in the shortest possible time, but in absolute safety. Finally, allow me to give a more general message to our National Health Service. I would like Parliament to be united on this, and it seems to me that today's speeches show a clear need to start investing again, to close the season of cuts that we have taken for too long in recent years and to recognize in the National Health Service as a collective asset of our country, a fundamental strategic asset on which to make the best possible investment. I am proud of our National Health Service and I am particularly proud of the implant and universalist principle that inspired it and put it on the ground: the idea that in the face of a sick human being must count nothing but the absolute need to respond to that need and to those needs. [[Applause]] We must all work together to defend this approach. Finally, with regard to the request made to me by the President to express an opinion on the resolutions, I am in favour of the majority resolution and cannot express a favourable opinion on the resolutions tabled by minority senators, partly because they go far beyond what is the scope of our debate, i.e. as indicated by paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19. However, I want to use these last seconds of my reply in the Senate to say that I have read carefully the question that Senator Romeo wanted to address me and of which I have only now become aware: it seems to me that he places an issue of absolute common sense on which I immediately undertake to speak. I believe that Parliament on the subject of the pandemic plan must necessarily be involved and that we can build a dialogue together, even in a very short time, because our country certainly needs to update this plan, which we have already been working on for weeks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u40	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u43	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, Minister, dear, it has cost us the closure of the season of cuts, because the closure of the season of cuts - as you called it - has not been the subject of a political decision, of a majority that has decided to return to investing in the National Health Service or something like that: it was simply the result of what happened, that is, one of the biggest emergencies in republican history, and obviously required by the serious delays experienced by our National Health Service. But we'll talk about this later. On 31 July, which is the date from which the provisions of the measures mentioned in the DPCM proposal are barely fifteen days away, must be a kind of watershed, a line of no return: something that leads us not to repeat everything that has happened. We do not say this because we want to anticipate what will be the judgements on the activity of government in facing the pandemic emergency, but because it is quite clear that in the face of some things maybe well done, many ascribable to the operators and volunteers of our National Health Service, have been accomplished lightness, delays and omissions that are obviously not desirable for the coming months. Above all, simplifications, shortcuts, repeated press conferences, fake news for unified networks and secondary regulations that have become the primary norm to limit constitutionally guaranteed rights cannot be repeated. That is all that is part of the form (but I would like to say that in the institutions the form known to be substance, Minister) must no longer be repeated. I am quite concerned about this, Minister, because, I do not know if you were referring to something specific, but when you ensured that there would be a provision from the Chambers for the possible extension of the state of emergency, you mentioned the agenda: you said that there would be an agenda that would address the Chambers. I would like to hope that he would not refer to the specific agenda document, but that he would mean that a draft law would be placed on the Chambers' agenda. I want to hope it's a bill. I feel the fantasy of unfolding: someone talks about passing through the Chambers, who does not understand what it is (a visit?). We are talking about a law, which establishes what happens in our order. With regard to this, Letter 150 - which you, Minister, of course, know: 150 constitutionalists have engaged in the events of this emergency and lockdown - has expressly confirmed that interventions are necessary, even urgent, perhaps also through decree-laws, but attributable to ordinary parliamentary legislative management. In other words, at this moment (...) that condition which has allowed, to date, the suspension of fundamental constitutional rights has failed. The state of emergency, in fact, is a serious unforeseen circumstance that requires immediate measures of intervention, not compatible with the normal times of drafting and proclamation of ordinary laws and administrative measures. The only idea that an extension of the state of emergency may not be deliberated by Parliament, and indeed can only be submitted to it for a "passage" from the content and unintelligible purposes, is irreconcilable with our constitutional order. A number of other considerations follow. This is the sense of reasoning on which we must dwell and express today, Minister: either this virus is there, and then scenarios of a certain type are opened, or this virus, as many say unfortunately, is no longer there or at least there is no longer as it was or at least is no longer as lethal as it was at the beginning, for an innumerable series of considerations. And if there isn't, Minister, then there isn't even a need for an extension of the state of emergency. Senator Quagliariello recently stated a number of European states that adopted this measure but interrupted it. In fact, Fascist Orbán has exhausted these measures over a short period of not two months. On the contrary, targeted measures must be produced, yes, but through the instruments provided for by our system, of our hierarchy of sources and the measures, obviously, must be targeted to the necessity and therefore also territorially, as well as temporally, circumscribed. After that, borders must also be protected, Minister. You have rightly said that we will protect non-European borders. Well, but I suggest you, Minister, also take a look at the European borders, because, in my Umbria, the last five infected are, casually, five caregivers, who were inside a bus that came from Northern Europe: they were all asymptomatic, while they were symptomatic the elderly who looked after and so we managed to trace the origin of the contagion. Therefore, Minister, there is also to be observed what happens in European countries and in travellers travelling from those countries. Or there is the other hypothesis that I consider, Minister, and that I share: the virus is there; perhaps it has changed, perhaps the heat has intervened, maybe we simply changed the healing protocols - finally, I add - and therefore it is less aggressive, less virulent, in short: it kills us less. Then, in this case, we must respect the three Ts of the World Health Organization. On 9 June last, this House adopted a unitary agenda - well heard: a unitary agenda, which would deserve a kind of monument outside the Senate House - containing seven commitments. Minister, you were present in this House. These seven commitments, which I do not read because I do not have time, are all important if the virus is there: I repeat, they are absolutely important because they stick to the ability to find it, find it, cure it, isolate it and solve it. In a nutshell, we are not at all going through the three Ts: the Immuni app has failed or, if it is not, tell us what the results are or what you intend to do in place; the seroprevalence investigation has failed and the traces have been lost, indeed, the serological tests have expired and a new race must be called, as has been confirmed by the operators of the Red Cross and Abbott: the tests have expired and must be bought back. As I said, the seroprevalence survey has produced modest, rather imperceptible results. In any case, Minister, we must act clearly. On both roads - either, or the other - take responsibility to tell us what will happen. And you can't do that with the extension of the state of emergency (that is, in short, for those who know how to play braids, like: passes). That's not how you govern. We need a vision, a prediction and a path drawn. I realize that this is a government that struggles to find the alchemy of sharing, but, six months after the first programming of the emergency state, we cannot fail to know what will happen in September and October, in schools and beyond. With regard to all this, it is quite clear that Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 4, first signed by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani and will vote in the opposite direction - I do not want the majority of my colleagues - to the two motions for resolutions by the left, because two that are all right, Madame Marquise does not make a good service to the country. We shall abstain on the other motion for a resolution by the centre-right, because - I say this to my fellow Members behind me - the centre-right is moving together, or everyone is submitting their own motions for resolutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u46	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, if we were to resume the debate in Parliament in the last parliamentary term on the instruments made available to legislators - that is, the use of the decree-law or trust as a means of swift approval of the measures, with the guarantee of the numbers in support of the Government - we would realize that the urgent decree was considered almost an attack on democracy and confidence as a sort of invasion of Nazism in our country. Today we are listening to the parliamentary debate in the face of the proliferation of recourse to the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers or even to the communicative instrument as a basis for a parliamentary debate. Minister, you have said today something that I fully agree with, namely that it is not enough for a communication, albeit authoritatively made by the President of the Council, to extend the emergency to 31 December to discuss something that is and is clear, because a passage from the Council of Ministers is necessary and - you said so well - a parliamentary passage. However, we are discussing this today because this proposal has been made. I believe that we need the guarantee on your part and on the part of the Government that any kind of provision on the subject of emergency has a real parliamentary passage and above all we must be able to guarantee paths that ensure that we send different messages to the country compared to those we have transmitted so far, because, Minister, the phase has changed, it has changed profoundly compared to before. I am convinced that it is correct for the Minister of Health to intervene here in Parliament to say that we must keep our guard up; it is good for the Minister of Health to say that we must, with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that we are discussing today, imagine how to prevent what is happening abroad from affecting the health situation in our country; the Minister is right to extend some of the initiatives that have been put in place, but we would make a mistake if we thought that we should only deal with this today. I would remind you, for example, that you are here today as a delegate of the President-in-Office of the Council with regard to the communications that are being made in Parliament, on proposals that are being made by the Minister of Health in the field of health when it comes to providing for decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers such as those we are dealing with today. However, I believe that today would have been an interesting signal, precisely to give the sense of the change of gear compared to what we have managed so far, that together with you or even in your place, delegated to the President, the Council could be Minister Patuanelli or Minister Gualtieri, precisely because today, although with the attitude of those who have to keep the guard high, we must understand what measures to put in place, taking note that the phase has changed and therefore we must understand how we no longer support the economy of this country only with welfare measures, we no longer worry only about the health emergency, which has fortunately now passed. Let's face it, Minister: at this moment the health emergency that we passed through a few weeks ago, fortunately, in our country is over. You don't have to go back, you have to be ready to stop any other outbreaks, but it's over and if we continue to play the same game that we played when we were in emergency, we make a mistake. That is why it is wrong, even at a press conference, to anticipate an extension to 31 December of the emergency procedures and the management of the health emergency in this country. We must, if anything, give a different signal to the country. If the political class, institutions and government continue to give defensive signals, what must citizens think? What are they supposed to do? I believe that from this point of view we have still not marked the difference between one phase and the other, and I believe that the Government has specific responsibilities in demonstrating this change of watch and attitude. I say this because we have exceptional economic measures to put in place and we must also avoid being contradictory in health matters, Minister. We cannot say that there is an emergency, make the list of things that you have said and that I agree with and then, for example, do not take the resources of the ESM into emergency, because or the health emergency is there and therefore we need extraordinary resources in relation to the management of our health system, or we can do without it because our health system holds and there is no need for resources that are available to us from Europe to hire doctors and nurses, to improve territorial medicine, to improve our health facilities, to improve everything that concerns intensive therapies. Of the two, but the two actions together, one contradictory to the other, do not go. I therefore believe that on the one hand we must change completely and radically in relation to the measures we must take in the economic field, making full use of the resources that we hope Europe will soon make available to us. I remember that in large part we spent the 80 billion euros to support a country that closed. We now need economic resources to support a country that is reopening: it is not the same thing, Minister. I would like us to discuss this and I would like to do so in the fifteen days that separate us from the forthcoming communications from the President-in-Office of the Council, also with the economic ministers, because the first change we have to make towards the Italians is that we are concerned about the real current emergency, which is the economic one. I am convinced, as you say, that the two issues do not conflict, but at the moment the priorities change: the guard is high - I have heard Senator Romeo propose a list of issues and measures that must be put in place to prevent any new outbreaks - but, at the same time, we build economic measures that prepare us to restart. I believe that we must confront this, in this Parliament, on the part of all political forces, because I sincerely disagree with those who, from the right, make the list and even quote Cassese as guru and character to be quoted compared to those who claim that Conte is taking full power; it seems to me truly incredible that those who have aspired to the new powers can today say that Cassese has become his point of reference. I do not share what Cassese says when he says that Orbán has started his political career as a liberal, but at the same time, it is also true that in the parliamentary and institutional management of this stage we must change direction, giving a greater role to Parliament and democratic institutions. We will not be there, Minister, to listen silently to any further closure of the country, with an extension of the emergency conditions to 31 December, without the involvement of the majority, the opposition and Parliament. I believe that on these measures there is a need for everyone's involvement, that it is possible to put in place actions that finally lift the country up with extraordinary economic measures and that, at the same time, we can guarantee health security, distance and everything that he mentioned, without continuing to put this as a priority action, while the country asks for help compared to economic measures. Otherwise, Minister, when that ban on firing expires, which is now assigned to all entrepreneurs, who in many cases do not fire just because they are banned, not because they do not want to do so (and they do not want to do so because they want to do so, but because they do not succeed), we cannot be flooded with redundancies. For me the property today is that and I would like the government to take care of it, ready to stem any health emergency, but ready to remove all the obstacles that separate us from an overall economic revival. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u49	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Minister, I have listened carefully to the debate and I believe that, with intellectual honesty, we can all recognize a first point on which to find ourselves: what has happened in the months behind us was unprecedented, no one was learned, and there is no doubt that the actions carried out by the Government and the Regions have shown an effectiveness, at least in order to limit, govern and coexist, as we have often said in this House, with such a terrible and, at the same time, unknown virus. We can do this and we can give this judgment not because we have to underestimate the real limits and problems we have encountered in recent months, but because, if we look at the world panorama, it is clear that Italy, the first country in the West to have had to deal with the coronavirus, has managed differently and substantially better than other countries, and not only to backward but also advanced countries (I think for example of the United States). This should enable us - now is not the time - to make a more comprehensive reflection on health models and their dynamics. But I don't want to talk about that. Is what we have achieved a result of the Government? No, not only of the Government, and it was well done by Minister Hope to emphasize it: it is a result of the country and of all health workers that we will never tire of thanking. Maybe now we don't continue in the rhetoric, for me enough tiresome, of heroes and maybe we strategically think about recognizing them, contractually, what is right to recognize. It is thanks to the local institutions and it is thanks to the Italians. We here - I say "noi" because I do not want to make any controversy - have heard on several occasions very obnoxious developments compared to the theme of coronavirus. Italians have understood the choices made in relation to the topic, absolutely first of all, of health; they have understood them and I think also appreciated. Now, ladies and gentlemen, to say this, which seems to me to be a reasoning of intellectual honesty, does it mean underestimating the problems and dramas that we are living and living from the economic and social point of view in the coming months? Absolutely not. I do not think that we need to compete here between those who are most concerned about the economic and social situation; we are all convinced and we are and must try to do more and better. The only thing we cannot do is to contrast this reasoning to the issue of health safety management, also because we have seen how in other countries these choices have produced results - ahinoi - certainly not positive. Therefore, we are today expressing our opinion on a proposal put forward by the Government, namely an update of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers until 31 July. We need to confirm the distance. I agree very much and I have also proposed this in a previous debate: not social distancing, but physical distancing. We must all continue, for the good of this country, to hold firm those points of reference that concern security. I share - and I say this without any doubt, even to my colleagues in the opposition - that we must pay the utmost attention and have the maximum guarantee, through certain interventions on the subject of landings. This must apply to non-Schengen countries and, all the more, to emergency situations such as those of landings. There is no reason, from this point of view, to divide between us, because this is the right choice we have to make. Today another debate has opened, which is not the subject of this debate and which concerns the issue of the possible extension of the state of emergency. I allow myself, Minister, to express my personal opinion. I do not often agree with and mention Senator Pharaoh, but a little less communication on this point, before I have decided, taken a direction and involved Parliament, would be and is a useful thing. In fact, we must be able to do without "announcements" in this country. I think this is very important. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's answer is a serious one: the President of the Council will come and we will discuss the matter, including the type of measure. I say that there are conditions to reason on the type of measure. But the idea that a possible extension of the state of emergency would be linked to a topic of government protection frankly is a hypothesis that does not honor the intelligence of those who propose this reasoning. Indeed, we must have even cultural attention. The country has reacted well and we must avoid passing the idea that the problem is solved; instead we must find those joints and balances to prevent the country "pendularly" from discussing closures and total lockdowns or free everyone. There are other legislative avenues and even other parliamentary paths, perhaps on the basis of a commitment on the part of all the political forces in Parliament (Room and Senate), to see if we can find the right balance to guarantee the two needs that we face. I have run out of time, so I will not dwell on the health system, on which my thoughts are well known. Reform, reorganization, revival; the values of universality. But the reorganization, redefining and re-evaluation of the way in which we can manage, from here to ten years, the technological and scientific evolution that goes through health. I just want to stress one more point: school. Minister, you have rightly put this as a central point and I want to say it in very clear terms: we must reopen schools safely and not think of shortcuts that they cannot hold. Schools in attendance. The government must make available additional extraordinary measures for the recruitment of teachers and for structures and classrooms where it is possible to do school education in presence; everything else is just confusion and, as I have already said, the Italians on this point would not forgive us. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u52	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his speech today. We still find ourselves following the evolution of the pandemic in our country and also repeating words that are proof of the fact that we did not get out of this situation, we did not get out of the pandemic, we are still in a condition that obliges us to keep high attention to the virus. Today, however, we are also on the eve of the definitive approval of the decree-law relaunch; it has therefore been sixty days since it was approved by the Government and published in the Official Gazette. Therefore, to review the measures contained in that measure now makes us understand how much the scenario has changed in two months, how much the things we have thought and for which we have put in place significant resources represent an answer that still has a meaning, a meaning, an importance, but that no longer represents the whole of the actions that we have to put in place. What is contained in the articles of the decree-law relaunching which concern health measures is essentially one thing: let us prepare to make sure that a second wave does not catch us unprepared, but gives us the opportunity to give a meaningful, timely, positive response. In that measure there are the resources to intervene on our health system and give an incisive response to a return of the virus that was significant, unpredictable. We still hope that there is no return of the virus, but there we put the resources, we built the actions not to be unprepared. After sixty days, after two months, we understand that there is a step forward in the reflection and also in the actions that this Government, the majority and Parliament must put in the field from here on. In my opinion, some aspects that were also mentioned in other speeches today must have and find more detailed answers and reflections. One thing, in fact, is to put in place the resources to deal with the emergency, an account is to give planning for a development, for a dynamic modification of the health system in our country. This is the subject that I believe today, two months after the launch of the decree-law relaunch, we must begin to address. I believe that everything that has been said in this House contains positive aspects, but also this kind of perspective. The lockdown allowed an effective control, but the outbreaks that recur call us to caution. I believe that the design that we must put in place, with regard to the national health system, cannot be without the ultimate objective of convergence of regional health systems. In fact, if at the level of emergency health and emergency measures we can choose to invest in the territory with the special units of care continuity (USCA), if at the level of emergency actions we can invest by hiring new doctors, nurses and OSS, building garrisons also through the institution of the community nurse, if, at the time when we are faced with the emergency, the actions are concentrated on investments, on the Covid hospital - these are also specific measures for which the Regions have made their assessments and, as the Minister has told us, it has now reached the bottom of the assessment of all the investments that must be made - after it will be necessary to address the problem of the homogeneity of the Health Service on the national territory that, being composed of regional health, does not today have the prospect of a convergence path. The design must go in this direction. Investment must be aimed at achieving this objective which will also engage us from the point of view of political reflection and between the various institutional levels, but that is what we must do if we really want to ferry health, in terms of investments and new levels of service homogeneous at national level and therefore on the various territories, to get out and do concretely what we have all said, that is to invest in health. I propose another assessment to give an example of what I said about regional health. In 2016 the National Plan of Chronicity was published, which obviously needs to be implemented by the various regions. The regions have transposed it according to the health models they are applying, therefore in an absolutely different way. Compared to this, the issue of chronicities, which we have unfortunately encountered during the pandemic, is a small significant example of how we must move towards convergence of regional health systems. The other issue I want to touch on is what I think should be the guiding word at this moment in relation to other social and economic issues, and that is the word transition. If we are to face a change, we must be aware that it is not instantaneous, but it must have a path and a dynamic, which must have the opportunity to draw, for each of our citizens, something well-known, a perspective that we feel able to face, a piece of the future that concerns our lives that conditions and the context allow us to face with confidence. This transition cannot be a period of unknown, it cannot be a leap into the dark. Each of us, each of our acquaintances and citizens must know what kind of path they are facing, what the goal is, where they will be taken, how their lives will change. No one must be left alone from this point of view. The objectives of investment, at this moment of transition, which is mainly economic and social, are in the green new deal and in some key words that must represent objectives but also concrete paths for our businesses, for our families, for our citizens, for our workers. We have to build this. Because, if it is true that we are facing a third post-war period, this time there are no roads and palaces to rebuild, but there is to rebuild the community. And the community is built by giving confidence and building solidarity. I believe that this is our objective, and I believe that this is the element that we must build through the actions that will come. Actions which, in my opinion, we will have to consider, together with the President of the Council, together with the Government, how and through which instruments it will be most appropriate to implement. In my opinion, there are economic actions that we could put in place because there was a state of emergency. In a normal condition, I don't think we can force companies not to fire. The state of emergency is something that allows extraordinary actions not only in the health field, but also in other areas. Rightly, I agree with the path put in place by Minister Hope: with the appropriate and proper involvement of Parliament we must carefully evaluate the projects that must be put in place, the instruments that can enable us to do so in practice, even in a timely manner. All the elements that we need to take into account, therefore, must then enable us to be concrete and to achieve these objectives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u55	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in recent days the President of the Senate has had to sound a cry of alarm, speaking of a Parliament, of a Senate, which has become a sort of place of the invisible; a cry of alarm which, frankly, I agree, because on many occasions Parliament has been bypassed and ignored and is being summoned, Minister Hope, at times when you have to pass in Parliament. Even today, you have had very kind words about Parliament, saying that no decision can be taken without the protagonist Parliament. An account, however, are the statements that are said here, on canonical occasions, and an account is what happens. I am not retracing the history of these difficult months: the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, the decrees to heal the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, the misuse of the DMCs. For those who listen to us outside of here, I remember that the DPCMs are measures adopted by the Government without proper involvement of Parliament, while a decree-law must still be converted. There has been an unacceptable and confusing chaotic situation, also of some bodies and also of some health structures, which we respect, because we are not among those who minimize and who deny the problems and we are still careful and worried. We follow the statements of the scientific community, because we cannot take anything for granted. However, we have seen, in a recent phase, the INAIL that said that on the bus we were a meter away, at the restaurant two meters away, at the bathing establishment at four meters and then the Regions forced the Government to review decisions that were brainy: the danger, in fact, is no different on the bus or at the bathing establishment. And I'm talking about a couple months ago. Therefore, confusion, arrogance and approximation, also because the problem has been a series of abuses, as has already been mentioned in this debate and as reported in the unitary resolution of the centre-right. I did not always agree with Professor Cassese, but his knowledge of the rules and his authority are indisputable. Well, Minister Hope, for several days and weeks, he has been giving you lessons. On the other day on the evening Corriere, invoking the powers which you have, pursuant to Law No 833 of 1978, on the establishment of the National Health Service, you recalled that you may intervene by order in cases of emergency. Why, then, scare tourists and economic operators with a state of emergency until 31 December, as you had announced, instead of intervening, how can you do, according to these laws, that Professor Cassese reminded everyone, according to the decree? [[Applause]] God forbid dangerous situations arise. You have all the powers as a government, and no one would dispute the use of the powers that you have as a health minister and the powers that the government has to issue decrees. How long does it take to bring the Council of Ministers together if there is an emergency situation? Now we are used to video meetings, via the web, which are done at planetary levels. The European Councils took place via the Network; we, fortunately, have maintained the practice of physical voting in this House. However, there are no excuses; there is an emergency. You have the powers, the tools and the timing to reunite within minutes and make decisions. When Count made the wrong decisions, it took him a few seconds to invade television and stay hours and hours over the hours of the news. [[Applause]] We agree that we should not lower our guard, but we believe that instruments should be used appropriately. Today we are debating an extension to 31 July; then there will be the next opportunity for President of the Council to clarify in Parliament: 31 December, 31 October, but it is not a political negotiation; it is a decision that should be taken on the basis of scientific evidence. [[Applause.]] We have great respect for the scientific community and for the virology, but when we see that Emiliano uses his virology of trust as an election candidate, well, we wonder where the trick is, where the scientist is and where the candidate is. [[Applause]] We are subjected to conflicts of competence, conflicts of attribution, conflicts of power. After that, the virolog goes on television, then you run and you don't understand. Is it going to be one? I do not know the others; we will make the monocolor of the virologies, I repeat, while respecting them. I do not retrace the story here: masks that were there or that were not there, the relatives, who were not legally understood which category of law they were. I'll tell you more: is there a risk of a second wave? Well, we know the countries, the places where the virus is today. And, then, instead of waiting helpless, take decisions towards those realities, even in international fora where Italy must assert its voice. On the other hand, if in some countries there is even trafficking in false certificates that attest to the immunity of a person, we intervene with those countries. I don't even want to quote them, but you've read them. You want to extend the emergency until 31 December or 31 October and do not go to the rescue of Sicily and Calabria where the immigration emergency is spreading. [[Applause.]] Let us make our own the appeal of President Santelli and President Musumeci who have asked for appropriate interventions. On the coasts of Calabria and Sicily we want the tourist ships, not the quarantine ships for the arrival of illegal immigrants in quantity, which are already announced. [[Applause.]] Today we read in the newspapers the usual well-founded reports of the Security Services that speak of Libya, of the 20,000 or 30,000 people ready to land. Are we waiting for Calabria and Sicily, which contained the pandemic, even for the wisdom of their regional administrators, to be overwhelmed by these problems? We would like virtuous landings of tourists, who do not arrive. Then we keep the doors open to the illegals and keep the doors closed to the tourists. Go and see 50 meters from here: they closed up bars and restaurants that had just opened because there is a deep crisis. [[Applause.]] You want sharing? We have given decisive votes for the budgetary deviation, which has also served - you mentioned them today, Minister Hope - for the recruitment of health care: 29,000 - I quote - if I have heard correctly. Well, it was also possible for the use of those funds. The votes of all the united centerright were decisive, but you didn't even call us a second to share priorities on how to use the money of the budget deviation. [[Applause.]] We are still waiting for the appointment, not marginal because now Count will say: "That doesn't want to come, that..." "Then the phone call: "Come tomorrow afternoon." We represent a piece of Italian democracy, probably majority in the country, and we demand respect when decisions are to be made, not to be invited after the last day of the general states, after the archistars, the singers, after all those who, by charity, have the right to say theirs. We have a warrant to say ours. So we have tabled a resolution because we are concerned about a second wave and in the European Parliament just yesterday Mr Tajani and other colleagues from Forza Italia asked a question to call Europe to its responsibilities on the controls of Europe's external borders. Indeed, if we have allocated EUR 110 million in Libya for a number of measures to support those authorities, we must demand control of the coasts of Libya, so that they are not the place of departure, they are not illegals, but at this point also health dangers. It is not racism ours, it is the news that you spread and that were recorded in Roccella Ionica, then in Amantea and now in Celio. So, we handle the emergency where there is and we don't announce the emergency where there isn't to create a negative and wrong image of our country. [[Applause]] You would have done better, colleagues from the majority and the government, to accept our resolution, which contains sound and sensible considerations. We do not lower our guard; we are not here to say, as Zingaretti did on an unfortunate day, go to the Navigli, eat and drink. We have been careful throughout the entire phase of this emergency. President Berlusconi, in his international contacts with the European Union, called for those instruments - but we will discuss them again - which are needed. I hope that the negotiations on the European funds that Conte is conducting will be concluded better than we have read in the newspapers today. It didn't seem very successful to me about Conte's recent tour, but we're worried about the confusion you've lost. We're worried about the school year that's gonna come back in a confusing way. Then, if one criticizes the Minister of Education, he is sexist. We do not consider it adequate regardless of its political location or whether it is a man or a woman. [[Applause]] You will be able to make a criticism, otherwise we are at sexism upside down, so one cannot criticize a person. We're pulling it out of order, and you know it. You have joined the Commissioner and you have taken measures; we are waiting for the single-use counters, then we are going to do the single-dose counters that we are going to throw out the next day; I do not know what else we should wait for as an invention. The school needs to reopen. [[Applause]] Finally, Mr President, smart working must be a faculty of progress, not the desertification of cities, because shops, commerce and production activities are dying. [[Applause]] So one thing is the progress that will allow us to use technologies, but it is not acceptable for Enel to keep its headquarters closed in Rome until 31 March. Do you know, Minister? [[Applause]] What's the emergency on March 31st? Do you have the crystal ball? Then tell us we're all going to Mars, taking an ark and changing planet. In the Post Office there are 7,000 people out of 7,400 in smart working, in the Ministries it is a desert. Is there a danger? Then plan it. If the danger has reduced, we reopen the offices and cities, because in addition to the public employment - which we respect and esteem - there is trade, restaurants and public stores, an economy that must live and that cannot be condemned to death in all Italian cities. You'd better listen to us. Respect, Minister Hope (also tell President Conte), must not be the circumstance of the parliamentary moment; it must be the daily practice of democracy. We are, we are counting, we want to assert the opinion of the millions of Italians we represent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u58	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Minister, many things have been said, but I ask you for a courtesy: to speak seriously to the Italians. I must say that in the months of emergency you were one of the ministers present, on time, who responded, while others eclipsed. So there is no political prejudice, but you can't think of threatening the Italians to be closed, blackmailed or terrified for other months based on nothing. Yesterday 41,867 swabs were made; the positives were only 114. In intensive therapies, fortunately, there are only 60 people left throughout Italy. Among the positive ones, however, as you remember, 28 sent us as a gift with the landings in Sicily and 11 others with the landings in Calabria: could you at least stop them? [[Applause]] We have problems with the positive Italians, at least the positives of the rest of the world can we avoid them? If there is a Minister of the Interior, let him make himself heard, stand up, show himself. [[Applause]] The fact that the situation - thanks to doctors, health workers and Italians - is under control is not the opinion of the sovereignists; it is not of Salvini, Orbán, Trump, Putin. The dangerous Dr. Matteo Bassetti, infectivologist and director of the clinic of infectious diseases of the hospital San Martino of Genoa, dared say: We are giving the world the idea that we are still in full drama, that all sacrifices have served nothing. While the opposite is true: the Covid was a hospital emergency, which today, the numbers say, is over. Stop terrorizing Italy and Italians. [[Applause]] Stop selling Italy to the world as a lazzaretto. The virology Massimo Clementi speaks of an extension as an incredible forced force; the primary of anesthesia of St. Raffaele, Dr. Zangrillo, speaks of a disease uniformly disappeared from the national context; the well-known constitutionalist, Legist, Salvinian and sovereignist, Sabino Cassese defines the extension as inappropriate, because exceptional law cannot become the rule and states that its negative consequences for society and the economy create tensions and block the economy. You risk doing more damage out of hunger than did the virus in hospitals. [[Applause]] Out of respect for the 35,000 dead, you can't keep a country blackmailed. The announcement alone, the sole hypothesis of an extension, be it to 31 December or even to 31 October, for no scientific reason, is causing a damage of tens of billions of euros to the Italian economy. Who's paying? Who's answering? Count? Toninelli? Also because the surreal debate that is taking place on the highways - on which you still do not seem to have decided anything today - sees, still today, not on a day of celebration when people go around for the weekend, 13 kilometers of tail on the A7 and 9 kilometers of tail on the A9. Wake up by unlocking the highways or not? [[Applause]] The only ones who are giving the Benettons a gift are those who are blocking the Genoa Grunda that the Benettons should pay with 4 billion euros. You're blocking the country because of your prejudices. [[Applause]] The only ones who are making a gift to Autostrade for Italy are the Government. We ask you, please, do something. [[Applause]] In these months, how many medical visits have they missed? How many surgeries have been blown? In these days, how many trials, not for big names, but for simple Italian citizens, have been postponed for years? Smart working and work from home is fine, but I hope the magistrates will return to work at the workplace as soon as possible and produce. [[Applause]] To produce judgments, to produce work, to produce justice. Minister, 6,000 pharmacies are at risk of closure: 6,000 out of 19,000, not only in the center of Rome and Milan, but in the countries. If in a small municipality closes a pharmacy is a disaster, then please listen to pharmacists, listen to us and do something. There are 10,000 doctor graduates without specialization; to the effort you have made, if you add 4,000 more scholarships, let's go to eliminate the precedent, reminding us, however, that from here to 2025 30,000 more doctors will retire. And not - as some phenomenon of ignorant journalist wrote - because of altitude 100. I remind the 100 skeptics that if we hadn't given the chance to retire to 300,000 Italians, the virus would have also made other victims. And if someone from the Democratic Party thinks they're going back to the Fornero reform, we're going to barricade Parliament inside and outside, because, as far as I'm concerned, we're not going back to that law. [[Applause]] On the scholarships and specializations for doctors there is a bill (Room Act 1929) that the League presented to the Chamber of Deputies. We do not propose what we suggest at the microphone to take two applauses, but they are drafts of the law. The Genoa model for speeding up public works is contained in drafts of law. Speaking of health care, you mentioned vaccine, which is fine. I wonder, however, why he remained silent about the treatment of autoimmune plasma, which worked and healed hundreds of patients, experimented in Pavia and Mantua. Maybe because a free and democratic cure bothers someone because it doesn't enrich some pharmaceutical company? [[Applause]] Honour to Dr. De Donno and to those who are also fighting against economic interests that maybe there are also around here. As for the school, as parents, principals and teachers we have read weird hypotheses: masks, plexiglasses and curtains. We send our kids to school under the curtains. It is not here present, but it is in the spirit and I appeal to you. Minister Azzolina, resign, please: you are unable to manage the Italian school. [[Applause]] I repeat, he is unable to manage the Italian school. CISL reports 85,000 empty chairs. The League's proposal is to stabilize some of the 200,000 precarious people who have been with our children for years. You've appointed the genius commissioner to the school's costumes. But do you explain to me how someone who didn't bring the masks to Italy could reopen our children's schools safely? [[Applause]] Can't you make him do something else? Evidently, the less they are capable, the more they are promoted from your point of view. The social problems, which you have also mentioned, are - alas - obvious, but not because the League stimulates them. In fact, we are trying to foster dialogue and solve these problems. Minister, if, to date, a million Italians have not yet seen the Integration Fund, is it possible to wake up the gentlemen and the President of the INPS, who says he has filled the Italians with money? A lot of Italians haven't seen that money. I remember the bazooka of money in the bank: 400 billion euros. Do you remember Minister? To date, updating the real data, the famous 400 billion euros that banks would have kindly donated to Italian entrepreneurs are stopped at 51. The bazooka is a waste water rifle. If millions of entrepreneurs, artisans, VAT matches and traders went to the bank and returned home with zero is because the decree on banks you wrote it with your feet. Can you rewrite the liquidity decree by helping citizens and not banks? Otherwise it will be a problem that we will find ourselves in the squares. [[Applause]] 40% of families have problems with the mortgage, and it will be a social problem. There is an abuse of psychodrugs, and it will be a social problem. 70% of children and minors have psychological problems, and it will be a social problem. Despite this, incredibly, you have confirmed that Monday, July 20th you have to pay taxes and those who will not make it will receive a fine from the next day. Please return to planet Earth: Italians cannot pay taxes next week. Give them a few weeks of time; not gifts, but justice. [[Applause]] As for public work from home, I am pleased with the civil servants who will be able to have this opportunity from here until 31 December. I don't like a government that discriminates between workers, moms and dads. Self-employed and private workers are not Italian B-series. [[Applause]] Let's think about artisans, VAT matches and traders. Then there is a reflection that concerns you and all of us. Data have come out on children who are no longer born: 420,000 born last year and 2021, if politics does not do something and does not wake up, we will fall below 400,000. This is the devastating social and economic data for our country, and not 3% deficit - GDP, spread. If no children are born - and Italy is now the second oldest country in the world - it is a problem. I hope that in the re-launch decree there will also be attention and economic support for those who help mothers to become mothers and dads to become dads. I think of the 360 centers of help to life that there are all over Italy, public and private. If anyone squeals about children who are not born, they have not understood a damn thing and should not be in this Parliament. If children aren't born, it's not funny. [[Applause.]] I hope that the MPs of the PD and the Movimento 5 Stars who have, even during the closing period, devoted so much attention to the - for their noble, for me unworthy - battle for the legalization of drugs, devote as much attention to life. This must be a Parliament that deals with life and not drugs and death. Stop scaring the Italians, keep them locked in the house: the Italians want to live, work, love and hope without social distance. Long live Italy, live life and live freedom. [[Applause]] Minister, please, listen to the country and not to some pseudo-virologist who has his private interests or to some minister who doesn't want to lose the chair. Thank you and good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u61	Toninelli (M5S). President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this House thinking about everything that has happened from the end of February to today, because someone - certainly the last one who spoke before me - seems to have already completely forgotten it. I want to say one thing, President: this is not a government that pulls back. He didn't back down when it came to making tough, difficult choices, at that time also contested by some European countries, as was the lockdown, while others irresponsibly asked to reopen everything. He did not back down when it was a question of denying lies - ahinoi daily - like that on the ESM, which is an instrument ratified by the Council of Ministers on August 3, 2011, at the hands of a Government led by Silvio Berlusconi with inside the League of Salvini and Brothers of Italy. [[Applause]] He didn't back down on the choices that must be made on the management of our motorways; the leader of the League has also spoken about it now and we know very well - and perhaps more than anyone else - that the League has never and never agreed to withdraw the concession to ASPI. Unlike the daily lies of the leader of this party, not the last legist who arrived, but the President of the Transport Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, the Legist Morelli, stated it clearly a few days ago on TV. We are completely fed up with these lies. But let's come to us. Extending the measures already taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus is certainly the right choice, Minister and Government. It is for the Movimento 5 Stars. We are well aware of this and the people of Lombardy, as I am myself, who have suffered more than all the devastating consequences of coronavirus. [[Applause]] As a Lombard citizen, loving deeply the Lombards and my Region, I remember that Lombardy has had - updated to date - 95,173 confirmed cases of Covid. And who knows how many others there have been and who knows how many deaths from Covid there have been, but of course they haven't been swabbed and we don't know. Today 16,760 people have died, out of a total in Italy of 34,984 people who have lost their lives: a real hecatombe. Coronavirus is a global health emergency, of course, as we have all said: we see the dramatic consequences every day and, although many countries have made progress, we know that the pandemic is accelerating worldwide. As someone has already stated, a record of 230,000 contagions has been reached in one day. Who suffers, in particular, ahinoi? The United States and Brazil suffer, as we have suffered in Italy, but with a small, big difference: there are Donald Trump and Bolsonaro to manage the pandemic; here, fortunately - and I stress this - there is President Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause.]] How not to remember that the president of the United States Trump, despite the fact that the coronavirus had already infected more than 3.3 million people and made about 135,000 victims, wore the mask in public for the first time two days ago. In Brazil, since the end of May, there have been more than 1,000 deaths a day, with a total of more than 72,000 deaths. It is the second country only after the United States; yet, in the State of Rio it is only yesterday the news of the entry into force of the obligation of the mask and Bolsonaro has always spoken of trivial influence, reminding its citizens even that so much, sooner or later, everyone must die, in the most total irresponsibility [[Applause]] It is the exact opposite of what has been done in Italy thanks to President Conte and this Government. Here, this is what happened in some countries of the world, but not in Italy, where, despite the fact that in February there was someone who said that Milan had to leave, this Government chose instead the path of responsibility, adopting measures that recognized us all over the world. When the League wanted to reopen everything, there are those who thought to close - and it took courage - thus saving - listen carefully - according to a study by Imperial College in London, published in...Nature, more than 600,000 human lives in Italy. Thanks to the government's responsibility and responsible management of the pandemic, 600,000 Italian citizens have not died. These are numbers that are very scary and we must never forget, as the Bergamos will never forget the military means to get out of the city full of coffins; the Lombards will never forget their grandparents and dead parents in the RSA. And we will never forget any of the individual victims of Covid all over Italy - so many, ahinoi! - nor their relatives, who have suffered and still suffer, and all those who suffer in general. We must not do so even today that the contagions have decreased, but do not disappear. We must not forget that if he had ruled who at the end of February wanted to keep everything open, we would have the numbers of the United States and Brazil. [[Applause.]] The Covid is not defeated, he's under control. Today, however, think of challenging this Government once again because it is choosing the path of responsibility honestly scares, and quite a lot, especially when these criticisms come from those who ruled Regions like Lombardy where the disasters committed in the management of health care by politics are before everyone's eyes. [[Applause.]] Those who ruled yesterday and still govern that region today gave public money to private individuals, private clinics, to let them manage the health care of the Lombards. Not to mention, of course, about 37 billion cuts made in ten years at the National Health Service, but we have canceled - it is true - since the Movimento 5 Star is in government, reversing the route and returning to investing in public health, as confirmed by the new appropriations included in the decrees care Italy and relaunch. We doubled the beds in the ICU and increased the beds in subintense. We have planned more recruitment and strengthened home care. [[Applause.]] All these serious, coherent and forward-looking choices make us more prepared. Today, in short, we know how to better deal with coronavirus, even if there is not yet a cure: we do not yet have a vaccine and, therefore, the alert must remain maximum and immediate must be the measures that we will have to put in place where there is an extreme need for it. And this is the reason for the yes of the Movimento 5 Stars to the extension of the state of emergency. Of course, we know very well that an economic crisis has broken out after the health crisis. We know that because we have intervened. This government didn't waste time there either: integration fund, VAT bonus, babysitter bonus, emergency income [[Applause]] for those who have lost everything and funds to the municipalities to help those who have remained on their knees. 80 billion has been allocated. Do you have any idea how much resources they are? We are talking about an economic effort of more than two budget laws and we have done so, yes, in the best way possible. Of course, we could not change the Italian bureaucracy with a magic wand, but we are doing it now with the simplification decree. Then we went to Europe and, thanks to President Conte's Carthusian work, today we are talking about recovery funds, that is, we are talking about over 170 billion that will reach Italy. And to those who make controversy about this, to those who make controversy even about the 170 billion that will reach Italy, we make a simple appeal: enough, enough, enough controversy and propaganda; at least on this one should stop making war on this Government and with a sense of responsibility give a hand to Italy and the Italians to win this very difficult and fundamental European negotiation. [[Applause.]] What do we see of those who have engaged in this mud machine? We see nothing less than Salvini's ally in Europe, Geert Vilders, lifting a sign with the above written: Not a penny to Italy. [[Applause.]] Nice allies! Who knows what revolution in favor of the Italians would have done if they had been in the place of Count. I would say to you: in addition to the damage the mockery; but there is only the mockery, because fortunately Salvini to the government is not there and the damage we have avoided. [[Applause.]] Mr President, Movimento 5 Stars care about workers, businesses and families, just as we care about the health of our citizens. That is why we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution extending the measures to contain the virus, because avoiding coronavirus infection must remain our priority. This is not a question of restricting the freedom of anyone - as the previous speaker said earlier - but of encouraging those measures, such as smart working, which have proved to be fundamental in the months of emergency. Preventing is the strongest weapon we have, while exploiting the concerns of citizens, falsely making us believe that we want to lock them up again in the house - it is false this statement just now - is a vile and becero act, which describes the people who have declared these things. [[Applause]] Mr President, there is this government, there is the state, as always there has been in recent months. But let's put some dots on the i. To us of Movimento 5 Stars the propaganda does not care [[Comments]] We don't care about lies. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u62	Colleagues, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u63	Toninelli (M5S). We don't care about propaganda. We don't care about lies. We are interested in the facts, and the facts, ladies and gentlemen, are before everyone's eyes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u64	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Fregolent and Cantù. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators De Petris, Perilli, Marcucci, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u65	He asked President Pesco to speak in order to report on the work of the 5th Permanent Commission on draft law No 1874. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u66	Mr President, we can say that we have incardinated the measure and have begun and concluded the general debate. We will begin shortly with the presentation and examination of the amendments. We shall do everything possible to ensure that the measure comes to the House tomorrow morning, in accordance with the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u67	In relation to Senator Pesco's report, the examination of the bill is postponed to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u70	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking today to highlight a situation which concerns my Province, Nuoro. The Province of Nuoro was founded in 1927. Nuoro is a city rich in museums, including the one dedicated to Nobel Prize winner Grazia Deledda, surrounded by a nature of unspeakable beauty and numerous sites of nuragic civilization. However, it has the sad record of not having a state railway line. The city of Nuoro and the entire Province is denied a dignified essential public service on rail, being the same equipped only with a narrow gauge line dating back well to 1889, today owned by the Sardinian regional transport company (ARST), never converted, that connects to Trenitalia in the town of Macomer, in the province of Oristano, after having crossed 57 kilometers in an hour and sixteen minutes, where by car it takes only forty minutes of journey. Only a few years ago a train, apparently modern, was replaced by the old littorines but, since the rails remained the same, this travels very slowly. It is necessary that the Italian railway network company (RFI) provides a new railway line that replaces the narrow gauge section and colleagues Nuoro to the port and airport of Olbia, favouring the free movement of persons and goods and, therefore, also the tourist flows in the inland areas of Sardinia. The conversion of the Nuoro-Macomer line and the new Nuoro-Olbia railway line would therefore represent the indispensable solution to put an embankment to the isolation and depopulation of the countries of the Province of Nuoro, which became a real island on the island. We learn from the program contract with RFI for the years 2017-2022 that the hypothesis of a new railway line that joins the city of Nuoro to the city of Olbia is not previewed and is not conceivable; in fact, according to the cost-benefit analysis, only if a new railway line up to the west coast is expected and then it was remade and modernized the aforementioned line Nuoro-Macomer, a new railway line would be convenient, being the cities of Nuoro and Olbia already connected from the state road 131. That is correct. In any case, the presence of the highway 131 should not affect in any way the forecast of a new railway line Nuoro-Olbia, as the benefits today are to be assessed in terms of social utility and tourist development. The cost-benefit logic, if understood only as a mere mathematical calculation, badly applies to the Province of Nuoro, which counts a population limited numerically, but scattered in an isolated and vast territory and that therefore needs efficient connections, with port and airport, present instead to Olbia, in order to be able to develop economically, especially in the internal zones. Mr President, I would like to conclude by calling for the immediate intervention of both the Sardinian Regional Council, with regard to the transfer by ARST of the Nuoro-Macomer railway line to RFI, and of the Government which puts an end to the isolation of Nuoro and its Province, guaranteeing a new Nuoro-Olbia state railway line. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u73	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I bring to the attention of this House the last investigation in order of time involving the Consortium for the Sicilian Motorways (CAS), a concessionary body since November 2000 of the A20 Messina-Palermo, A18 Messina-Catania and Syracuse-Gela motorway routes still under construction, forming part of the European road axis E45. The investigation in question, coordinated by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Messina, was called "Out of the tunnel" and never name was more appropriate. It is news of a few days ago, in fact, that of the arrest of officials of the consortium and some entrepreneurs for corruption, false ideological committed by public official in public act, disturbance of auction, attempted scam aggravated in competition, undue induction to give or promise utility, rigged contracts that concern works carried out in recent years along the highway section of competence of the CAS (A20 Messina-Palermo, A18 Messina-Catania) and irregularities that would have emerged also in the works carried out for the reopening of the gallery of Sant'Alessio on the highway A18 Messina-Catania. The prosecutor, in particular, would have assumed that there were serious anomalies in the implementation of these interventions, with particular reference also to an important system of safety of the tunnels. Following this investigation, the umpteenth, which concerns the DAC, I have prepared a question addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport De Micheli, to ask what are the initiatives he intends to take precisely to verify the existence of any shortcomings by the DAC and what decisions he intends to take with a view to an eventual updating of the concessionary relationship, in the light of the continuing judicial scandals. It should be remembered that the CAS is based in Messina and is subject to the supervision of the Sicilian Region whose summits are appointed by Governor Nello Musumeci and by the city council member Marco Falcone infrastructures. I believe that the time has come, now more than ever, to make a deep reflection on the usefulness and adequacy of this body, with a view to revising the concession, also at national level. I believe that the time has come to assess the immediate withdrawal of the concession, precisely for all the scandals and shameful conditions in which the highway arteries it manages are placed; conditions that are in the eyes of all, like the very serious deficiencies in the matter of road maintenance. I remember, not least, also the resolution of the National Authority anti-corruption that has evidenced that, from 2014 to 2017, 220 assignments have been entrusted to a single legal of Messina and 71 to a lawyer of Palermo: an ulterior, worrying confirmation of the lack of transparency also in the entrusts of the advices from the agency that has a litigation for beyond 200 million euros. I would like to draw the House's attention to a further investigation of the last few days which concerns the Messina-Palermo motorway section between the municipalities of Milazzo and Rometta. Two structures were seized that were at risk of collapse. Therefore, due to the failure to supervise and maintain those viaducts the prosecutor of the Republic has entered further in the register of suspects some technicians of the DAC and the current Director-General. Outside the tunnel, therefore, it is the last in a series of investigations that have affected this institution at a very high rate of corruption and that presents very serious structural and organizational deficiencies. The CAS is, at this point, the emblem of the waste of public money done on the skin and the safety of Sicilians. That's why we're asking to get out of the tunnel, the tunnel of lawlessness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u76	CIRINNA' (PD). For this late sitting speech and for the little attention of colleagues, my prayer is a secular prayer to you, Mr President. I asked her five months ago, when Patrick Zaki was arrested in Egypt for posting posts and expressing his ideas, despite being in Italy, in Bologna. Today his unlawful detention has been extended for another 45 days. Zaki was moved to Tora Prison, where Amnesty International stated that a journalist in custody of Covid had recently died. I would like to know how much more we must allow the Egyptians to do on the skin of that boy in the absolute dumbness of this House and of all the other institutional classrooms. Some spoke: the City of Milan gave Zaki honorary citizenship, as well as Bologna and Naples. I, Mr President, asked you to authorise a mission and you answered me correctly that you could not do so. I have spoken on your advice with the President of the Foreign Commission and the President of the Human Rights Commission. I was promised that our ambassador would take care of the problem. Today Zaki was moved to a prison where he risks dying. I ask you, and I beg you, who rightly defends the prerogatives of this House in front of the possible distractions of the Government, to question the Foreign Minister on this. I do not urge myself to plead for what the family of Giulio Regeni is asking, which says that we should withdraw the ambassador again, but our ambassador should make himself felt for the life of this boy and that this House should have an explanation of why we continue to speak with Egypt despite the continuing violations of human rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u77	Senator Cirinna, you know I took all the steps you could take. I understand your concern of a human nature, but the whole situation is a little more complicated. You know there are international relations and that that boy is not an Italian citizen. I've walked through all the passages. So when I gave her an answer, it's because I did it. Anyway, I'll try to repeat them. I assure you, however, that I have not neglected what you have proposed. This is for complete information.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u80	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share my concerns about a case which has been dealt with by my esteemed colleague, who has been sentenced to the disciplinary board for an affair that has shaken the whole medical sector. Professor Mario Di Fiorino, chief of psychiatry at the Versilia hospital, Regione Toscana, expressed comments and concerns about the organization of laboratories on the territory in order to carry out promptly the analysis of swabs and, above all, the need for such an organization to ensure adequate intervention in case of positivity to the virus. The professor's observation refers to worrying situations for the protection, already difficult to manage, of the patients admitted not only in the hospital structure, but also in the affiliated structures that offer services related to psychiatry, for which Professor Di Fiorino is responsible. Mr President, we are talking about realities which have, to date, represented the highest risk of the spread of virus infection between patients and health workers. While the WHO and the Minister of Health were announcing the pandemic alarm, out of absurdity, the business management ASL-Tuscany North West considered that: "The thought expressed by the professor can create a sense of sadness, uncertainty and distrust towards the Public Health Service in the population already experienced in a time of health emergency." Colleagues, the thought! This is why the ASL Tuscany intervened with deferment of the professor to the disciplinary council. In essence, my colleague Mario Di Fiorino, a psychiatrist, was referred to the Discipline Board because, in full pandemic, he had requested that the hospital be placed in a position to perform the swabs. But were they thinking of healing patients with homeopathy or Bach's flowers? Again, the health system of the Tuscany Region has not been denied. In the severity of the moment, he wanted to strike mercilessly at the psychiatric medical service. I suspect that, if the appeal had come from any virology, immunologist, infectious or epidemiologist, "ultimominuteologist" from first evening TV, instead of from the psychiatric service, the answer would have had other attentions: one weight, two measures. Yet, the question raised by Professor Di Fiorino, contrary to what has been reported by the health company, shows a particular sensitivity to the concrete problems related to the health structure, especially of patients and psychiatric operators, who, despite the pounding news that every day we have the misfortune to listen, continue to be souls without voice. For this reason, I will not stop appealing, even here, for their human right to care and not just for the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-239.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 15 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.24 p.m.
