ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 25 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, I would like to address a thought of closeness to the family, relatives and friends of former Senator Paolo Cabras, who died last Friday at the age of eighty-nine. Paolo Cabras was a man of fine and lively intelligence, an esteemed and scrupulous professional, a passionate politician, endowed with great sense of the state and respect for the institutions. A leading exponent of the national Christian Democrat left, he had begun his experience among the Campidoglio benches, and was then elected for the first time to the Chamber of Deputies in the 6th legislature. Parliamentary for six terms, including four in the Chamber and two in the Senate, Paolo Cabras was undoubtedly a party man, but he was above all a political dialogue and always open to constructive confrontation, faithful interpreter of that morotea vision of political commitment intended as collaboration and sharing of responsibilities, which continues to represent still today a valuable teaching of culture and institutional maturity, because only by making general interests prevail over those of part and only through the participation and commitment of all political and institutional actors it is possible to overcome even the darkest moments and give citizens answers, prospects and concrete hopes for the future. In renewing my personal and Senate mourning to my son Daniele, to Senator Paolo Cabras' family and friends, I invite the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]] Excuse me, senators, unfortunately today is a day of commemoration; I would like to remember another person. As is sadly known, last Sunday, after a long illness, the former senator Fiorenza Bassoli, a woman of great intelligence and authoritative exponent of the Italian left, died. Originally from Reggiolo, a small town in Emilia-Romagna, Fiorenza Bassoli had moved very young with her family to Sesto San Giovanni and to that Municipality north of Milan, at the time home to one of the largest and largest industrial concentrations in Italy, had begun her passionate political-institutional journey. Mayor of Sesto for nine years, between 1985 and 1994, the first woman in the history of that municipality, had to face some of the most delicate and complex moments of the industrial crisis, which would quickly transform the social and economic fabric of those territories, a challenge faced by Fiorenza Bassoli was able to show great determination, ability to dialogue and will always find solutions shared in the primary interest of the city and its inhabitants, human values that were the hallmark of a strong personality and attentive to the demands of the most fragile. Values that have marked his commitment also as Provincial Councillor of Milan, as vice president of the Regional Council of Lombardy and therefore as senator in the XV and XVI legislature. Many in the Senate have had the opportunity to know and appreciate her tireless dedication to work, together with the passion with which she had become the inspiration and supporter of many legislative projects and initiatives for an ever more modern and accessible health care. A spontaneous dedication, an authentic and engaging dedication that, even in recent years, despite the arrival of the disease, had led it to spend up to the last one for the realization in Sesto San Giovanni of an important health center and medical-scientific research, a project that Fiorenza Bassoli particularly cared about and that I hope can soon translate into a concrete and tangible reality at the service of the citizens. In remembrance of Senator Fiorenza Bassoli, I therefore invite the Senate Assembly to tighten to the pain of family and friends and to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u6	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, just because I collaborated and knew as your close collaborator in the electoral office of the party, that is, the Christian Democracy, the honourable (then he was in the Chamber of Deputies) Paolo Cabras, I want to add to your words the sense of a collective feeling for those who have known this person. A person certainly out of the ordinary, a political leader deeply rooted in his city, Rome, who arrived in Parliament, as often happened in that generation, after a long cursus within the city council, after a great activity done in the hamlets, among the simple people of this city of Rome. Coming to the Senate, this afternoon I was thinking about Paolo Cabras, and I was thinking about how I could identify his personality. Here, I would like to use an expression, colleagues, which I believe applies to Paolo Cabras in particular: Paolo Cabras was an intransigent Catholic, not only with others, but also and above all with himself; a man deeply linked to the great cultural and political tradition of Leopoldo Elia, Giovanni Galloni and Granelli. With his basic colleagues, he was an important landmark in Christian Democracy in those years. We did not always agree; many times we disagreed, but I have always appreciated your human qualities, your abilities as a fighter, but, as you pointed out earlier, Mr President, he was a fighter who did not fight to make battles. He has always sought the moment of dialogue, the moment of the settlement of the conflict, the moment of the agreement after the disputes. This was a sign of great intelligence, great passion, great intellectual vivacity. I believe that Paolo Cabras must be remembered in this city of Rome in particular as he deserves, and I hope and think that the Senate and the institutions of the Republic will have to do so, because we are talking about a man who has left a very strong moral and ideal legacy, as is often not seen in the protagonists of politics today. Thank you, Mr President, for wanting to begin the work of our Senate today by recalling Paolo Cabras. It has done well, it has been a just tribute to an honest man, deeply rooted in the Christian-Democratic experience. [[Applause. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u7	I think an intervention on the memorial calls for a little silence. That would be a sign of respect. [[applause]] for those who have been in these classrooms and today is remembered for the work he has done. I would ask you, therefore, that there should not be this somewhat annoying murmur in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u10	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I had quite casually met Senator Cabras because, being the "son" of one of the representatives of the Sardinian Christian Democracy, who was a Member of Parliament at the time, Senator Ariuccio Carta, who for a long time sat on the benches of this House, had the opportunity to meet him through this House. Paolo Cabras was a doctor; as has already been said, he has been a Member for long years, from 1972 to 1987, senator since 1987 for two legislatures. He was also director of "The People," the daily newspaper of Christian Democracy and this is a very important fact, because this assignment clearly highlights the authority of the character and the prestige he enjoyed within the party. From 1960 to 1974 Cabras had also been city councilman and city councilman and, coincidentally, just in that year, the year in which he left the city council, I had taken the first card of Christian Democracy, belonging to the Christian Democrat left in Sardinia. In those years he dealt mainly and earnestly with the so-called last, because he had special attention for the poorest, for those who even had problems with survival. He identified these people in his political struggle and was in fact one of the founders of the unitary national union tenants and assignors (SUNIA), of which he was also president: this demonstrates the commitment that Senator Cabras posed for all the problems that concerned social in general. He had led, in this sense, a great, continuous and incisive action in favour of the poorest categories, interpreting, in an absolutely authoritative way, the social values of democratic Catholicism. That's why I think it was a great idea to commemorate him and recall his figure. The Italia Viva Group is therefore associated with the demonstrations of condolences towards family members, children, their friends and also all those who have been his party comrades, among whom, in a very modest way, I have also found myself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u13	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, thank you for the memory of Senator Fiorenza Bassoli. Today, as you rightly said, we really remember a great woman, a great friend whom I had the honour of knowing in my political life; not only a great administrator, but a great senator, an authoritative woman of the institutions, with a humanity and a generosity that are not easily found in the style of those who make politics. She was deeply generous and passionate, but at the same time she was a determined woman in her battles for a modern and reformist welfare and in defense of the rights of women and children. I was lucky enough to work with you and other colleagues, even in those years when it was difficult to carry out some legislative proposals, outside and within the institutions. A deep friendship and a sharing of values binds me to her. Fiorenza had the ability to hold together the smile and concreteness, because he believed deeply in politics, the high one, that of the ideals and values of an authentically reformist left. There is a human trait of her that I will never forget: she was a woman of dialogue and confrontation and she knew how to work with other women and this is also a rare dowry in politics. I made an important stretch next to her, with other Senator friends, to whom I am bound by a deep friendship - Senator Anna Serafini, Senator Silvana Amati and sorry Senator Franca Donaggio - and many memories, many initiatives, many beautiful and passionate moments spent together. I want to remember her like this, as a friend who, to the end, despite the illness, has maintained dignity and attention to the weakest. A big hug goes to his family, to his beloved son Yuri. Dear colleagues, we have lost a great woman, a great friend, but no one will erase her work, her ideas always aimed at improving our society. Hello Fiorenza, also on behalf of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u16	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, it is a pain, but above all it is a duty to give a final greeting to Fiorenza Bassoli in this House, where Fiorenza has worked for two legislatures, from the benches of what has always been his Group and his party. Fiorenza was a woman of part, a woman of the left, an anti-fascist, who in his political life has made concreteness and reformism his reference. In the name of these principles she has always fought in society and also in her party and it is nice that she wanted to remember it yesterday in a telegram the president emeritus Giorgio Napolitano. But Fiorenza was above all a woman of the institutions, convinced that the task of a representative of the citizens should always be to look to the general interest and the safeguarding of institutions and democracy. In this spirit he was able to represent with authority and balance the Regional Council of Lombardy as Vice President for an entire legislature. But the great loves of Fiorenza, so we will not forget it, are those on which he left his mark, as an intelligent, attentive woman, capable of often having that extra march that so many women know they have. First of all the great love for his city, Sesto San Giovanni, the working city, gold medal of the Resistance. Fiorenza, not only was she the first female mayor, but she was the mayor of Sesto San Giovanni at the most difficult moment of the city, when the big factories were closed and there was a need for a great transformation. She was able to guide this transformation as an intelligent mayor, making Sesto San Giovanni a tertiary city, not abandoning production, focusing on innovation and paying great attention to the quality of the city and sociality. There was a risk that it would become a dormitory city: it became a green city, with a large park, a city that focused on culture and sport. Fiorenza has marked this way, he has given a beautiful season and not taken for granted to his city. The other love of Fiorenza was health care. Until the last, until a few days ago, he wrote that she was worried and upset by what the Covid-19 did in Lombardy. He wanted to tell his story about what he was wrong about, about responsibilities. For ten years in Lombardy, and again in the Senate, this had been dealt with, the health of the citizens, the need to guarantee a universal welfare and quality. Your two passions, as you said, Mr President, have met over the years, finished your activity in the institutions, in the attention with which you continued to follow the great project of the City of Health, which helped to build: the strong idea of bringing in your city a health excellence, in the place where there were the great industries, the cranes, the Falck, the Marelli, the Breda. This is also an act of love for Sesto San Giovanni that all the institutions involved, as you said, Mr President, must still feel committed to achieving today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u19	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when I heard about the disappearance of Fiorenza Bassoli, I was very sorry. I had been familiar with you when you held office in the Bureau of the Regional Council and we had fought together on women's issues. So, with her, I shared, not only this issue, but a deep passion for politics. I remember Fiorenza as a woman of the institutions, deeply convinced of the commitment that can be made every day to try to do her part and to improve. You have had the opportunity to do so, precisely as an administrator of your municipality, as mayor, but also in the Regional Council, in the Provincial Council and finally in the Senate. He was a person I remember open, partisan, of course, as we are all in here, but with a deep respect for other people, even if, in fact, of another political idea. Ready to confront each other institutionally and, as I would say that we see here too, this is not always a quality that many have. I'll finish here. I wanted my thoughts, my memories and my condolences to the family and friends of your political group, who have been so close to you and who miss you so much. I'm sorry for your loss. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u22	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, when I was appalled to hear the news of Senator Bassoli's death, I felt a deep sorrow because I remember with great emotion when we were together in the 12th Senate Commission in the 16th legislature. It was my first legislature and Fiorenza Bassoli was, however, a great example, a teacher, just for all those who were our behavior in the Commission, where there were people extremely prepared. This is even if we had different ideas: a concept of health based on liberal principles that have always inspired my party was another idea than that of Senator Bassoli. What has always been common to us, however, was to be able to bring some fairly shared legislative projects, especially thinking about what was a primary good such as that of health. So, there has always been a lot of dialogue, even in the moments, that I would not define as confrontation, but still of differences of position, and then arrive, however, at a synthesis, even in the differences. In the early years, we represented the majority and carried out great battles on health, which are perhaps now a little forgotten, but always, however, with great mutual respect, which, unfortunately, nowadays is lacking, even in the same Commissions and also in this House. I am very sorry, because, really, when there is mutual respect and preparation for the issues that need to be addressed, we really feel the beauty of our role as politicians and legislators. So, hello, Fiorenza. We're gonna miss you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u23	By letter dated 1 July 2020, Senator Carbone announced that he would cease to be a member of the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Parliamentary Group President-UDC and to join the Italia Viva-P.S.I. Group. The President of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. accepted this accession. Following the move to another parliamentary group, Senator Carbone lapses from office as Secretary of the Council of President, pursuant to Rule 13 (1-a) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u24	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders established the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 21 July. In today's sitting, which will end at 8 p.m., the resolutions of the Commissions for Foreign Affairs and Defence on Italy's participation in international missions will be discussed. The schedule of the week also includes: the discussion of ratifications and international agreements; the resolution for the formation in court of the Senate in a conflict of attributions; from the headquarters drawing up the bill on chronic primary headache, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies; the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Waste of the Umbria Region; the inspection union. Thursday 9, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place with the Ministers of the Interior, Justice and Education. On Tuesday 14 July, at 10 am, the vote by calling for the election of two members of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications, as well as the convening of the Commissions for the renewal, provided for in article 21, paragraph 7 of the Regulation, according to the times already announced and after communication of the members in the Commissions by 17 hours of Friday 10 July. The next week's calendar will be held until Friday 17, if necessary, for the discussion of the decree-law relaunch, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies. On Wednesday 15 July, at 3 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the extraordinary European Council of 17 and 18 July 2020. Thursday 16, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place. The group leaders also agreed that, on Tuesday 21 July, from 9.30 a.m. onwards, motions on six subjects, three indicated by the majority groups and three by the opposition groups, will be discussed. The themes of the motions must be indicated by Tuesday, July 14, at 17. From today, thanks to the excellent work done by our computer engineers, the integrated electronic voting system is in operation by the forums and the hemicycle that - after the experimental phase of the past months - allows the full operation and immediacy of all the voting procedures provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Please note that the system automatically disables any cards that may remain in the voting positions of the hemicycle if the holders vote in the forums with the tablet.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u25	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 1 July 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 21 July: [[Tuesday 7 July h. 16.30-20 - Doc. XXIV, No 20 and Doc. XXIV, n. 21 - Resolutions of the Commissions reunited 3rd and 4th on the participation of Italy in international missions - Ratifications of international agreements - Deliberation for the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of attribution - Drawing of law n. 1250 and related - Chronic primary headache (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the writing office) - Doc. XXIII, point 2 - Report by the Commission on waste investigation into the Umbria Region - Inspection union - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 9, 15:00) Wednesday 8" h. 9,30-20 Thursday 9" h. 9,30-20]] [[Tuesday, July 14, h. 10 - Vote for the election of two members of the College of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications (secret ballot vote by ballot) (Tuesday 14, hours 10) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 34, Relaunch (where approved and transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 18 July) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the extraordinary European Council of 17 and 18 July 2020 (Wednesday 15, hours 15) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 16, hours 15) Wednesday 15 " h. 9,30 Thursday 16 " h. 9,30 Friday 17 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The Permanent Commissions shall be convened for their renewal on Tuesday 14 July at the following times: Commissions from 1st to 7th at 1 pm Commissions from 8th to 14th at 3 pm Groups will have to communicate the members in the Commissions by 5 pm on Friday 10th July. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 34, Relaunch) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday 21 July h. 9.30 a.m. - Discussion of motions on six distinct topics, three indicated by the majority groups and three by the opposition groups]] The topics of the motions must be indicated by 5 p.m. on Tuesday 14 July. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 34, Relaunch) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 8' FI-BP 1 h 6' PD 49' Mixed 41' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the Extraordinary European Council of 17 and 18 July 2020 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 38' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FI-BP 28' PD 21' Mixed 18' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] (17.07)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u26	The next item is the joint debate on the resolutions adopted by the Council of Ministers on Italy's participation in further international missions for 2020, adopted on 21 May 2020 (Doc. XXIV, No 20), and on the analytical report on the ongoing international missions and on the state of development cooperation interventions in support of the peace and stabilisation processes, covering the period 1 January to 31 December 2019, also for the purpose of the related extension for the period 1 January to 31 December 2020, as decided by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020 (Doc. XXIV, No 21). The reports have already been printed and distributed. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked to supplement the written report on document XXIV, No 20. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u27	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are today in this illustrious House to announce that five new international missions, together with the extension of the current ones and the interventions of development cooperation and in support of the peace and stabilisation processes, have been unanimously approved by two resolutions by the Foreign Affairs, Migration and Defence Committees for the current year. Thanking the Ministers of Maio and Guerini for their work, the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, for the commitment made in drawing up the documents and the senators of the two Commissions involved for their sense of responsibility, I would like to stress in particular that, with the demining mission in the Libyan territories occupied by the troops of General Haftar, Italy tries to return to the Libyan match. We were the first to believe in an al-Serraj government. Then, at least for some time, the war's deployments and fates led us to have an equidistant, almost neutral position. Now that the Libyan regular army calls us to clear roads, palaces, land, etc., it is inevitable to accept, especially to save the lives of thousands of civilians and children, but also to return to play a leading role in Libya. With the Irini mission, which was born to block the trafficking of arms in Libya, in violation of the embargo decreed by the UN since the start of 1 April, debates and discussions have been held on the success and consequent credibility of the European Union as a geopolitical entity. These discussions were probably due to the fact that at the beginning of June the cargo Cirkin, flying the flag of Tanzania, sailed from the Turkish port of Haydarpasa and headed for Libya, was intercepted by the Greek frigate Hs Spetsai, one of the two ships currently operating for the Irini mission and that after the warning the military personnel asked to board the cargo to ascertain the cargo of weapons, but the commander of the ship refused to perform the inspection as the rules did not foresee it, as confirmed later by the spokesman of the European Union, thus giving reason to the Tanzanian ship. The rules of engagement of the Irini mission provide that the suspicious ships can be inspected only with the consent of the commander of the same boat. To date, in fact, the numbers of inspections made and the findings show that more than 140 vessels with their inspection have been checked and in none of these weapons have been found. The deduction of the most is, therefore, that you control those who have nothing to fear and do not control those who carry weapons. Given that the mission has a deterrent function, with the aim of pointing out those states which do not comply with the directives, I hope that in the near future a more stringent system of control and sanctions will be adopted for those who violate the embargo, especially - of course - with more binding military means. In fact, despite the different countries involved, only Italy and Greece, with two frigates and four or five aircraft, have been engaged since 4 May (starting operations at sea). If we believe in this mission, we must commit ourselves to extending its participation to all the Member States of the European Union - or at least to France, Germany, Luxembourg and Poland, which have given their willingness - and above all to revise the rules of engagement. To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and distinguished colleagues, I would like to send my greetings and thanks to the women and men of the Armed Forces, who with honor and self-denial serve our country, preserving security and peace for the Italian people and all the people of the countries in which they operate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u28	The rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, asked to supplement the written report on document XXIV, No 21. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Senators, with this measure, the Senate is today called upon to examine the authorisation to participate in the ongoing international missions and the state of development cooperation interventions in support of the peace and stabilisation processes, with the extension thereof, as well as the content of the resolution under consideration and with the procedure introduced by Law No 145 of 2016. In detail, but in a nutshell, this is a measure that provides for the extension of the existing missions for the period 1 January to 31 December 2019, with their extension for the period 1 January to 31 December 2020. As usual, authorisation for missions requires an analysis of geopolitical scenarios and the different instability and crisis in which our country's commitment is inserted. Here there is no doubt that the examination that we are conducting today is placed on a real historical watershed, represented by the emergency Covid-19. Parliament has taken a long and thorough look at how to deal with the health emergency and its economic consequences, but from the point of view of security and defence policy, I believe we must also monitor the impact of this emergency on international security and stability very closely in the near future. There is no doubt that the health emergency and the related economic crisis will have a particularly hard impact on fragile countries, with weak governments and institutions, ongoing conflicts, critical social conditions and weak or non-existent health systems. The root of our commitment to international missions is to contribute internationally to stability and conflict management. In the context that awaits us, I fear that we will have to equip ourselves to cope with greater conflict in all areas of instability and a humanitarian crisis, with all the consequences we know, for example with regard to migratory flows. In this context, Italy intends to maintain an adequate international presence in the various formats carried out so far (i.e. UN and NATO missions; missions-operations in the European Union, both military and civilian; missions conducted by coalitions of countries and, finally, bilateral ones). The international context remains characterized by different crisis scenarios, many of which are concentrated in the area of the so-called enlarged Mediterranean, which is of great impact for our country, between Middle East, Gulf, Balkans and North Africa. Moreover, the analytical report annexed to the document approved by the Council of Ministers also mentions our Mediterranean identity as a fundamental reference point for Italian action, which also makes us feel more closely about the historical and cultural dimension of everything that is moving in this basin in terms of both threats and opportunities. Our presence continues in the Western Balkans, an area of renewed relevance both for migratory flows and for the terrorist threat, at a stage of delicate rapprochement of these countries to the European Union and NATO. Training and training, counselling and support activities in the Sahel and the Horn of Africa also continue to combat piracy. Italy maintains its presence in Iraq, a country shaken by serious internal disorders and persistent institutional instability. In addition, as a complement to the interventions resulting from the Syrian crisis, participation in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, once again under Italian leadership since August 2018, remains crucial for the stabilisation of the area. The document also focuses on the problems of the situation in Libya and the adjacent Mediterranean area. As far as Libya is concerned, the report traces the last steps of the crisis starting with the Berlin Conference of 19 January and its conclusions, which were then incorporated into a resolution of the United Nations Security Council of last February. The situation on the ground, as well known, has been characterized in recent months by the intensification of fighting also due to the increasing influence of external subjects. In the belief that there is no military solution to the crisis and in the awareness that the resumption of an inclusive dialogue process that intensifys the diplomatic effort to induce the Libyan parties to stop hostilities, Italy continues to support the efforts of the United Nations and has also promoted a more active role of the European Union that led to the launch of the Irini mission, of which my colleague Senator Pacific spoke very well. In this context, it is positively assessed, said also here the Senator Pacific and I want to reiterate it, and it has been much appreciated, as announced by Minister Di Maio and confirmed by Minister Guerini, the Italian contribution of high humanitarian value intended to provide assistance, with highly specialized personnel to assist the reclamation operations of devices scattered in urban centers, in particular in Tripoli. Another important aspect, which has always been mentioned in the analytical report, is the relationship with NATO. Strengthening resilience and civil defence capabilities, especially after the Coronavirus crisis, remains a crucial area to safeguard the continuity of the Government, the protection of critical infrastructure and the provision of essential services in the event of an emergency. Strengthening the relative capacities of the Alliance is therefore a priority interest of our country. Italy then makes its contribution to several NATO missions; to Europe on the East and South sides of the Alliance; to Afghanistan, a scene in great change given the negotiations with the Taliban and the position of the United States; to Kosovo, where we have the command of the mission and to Iraq. The Italian commitment to the EU's common security and defence policy is also continuing, both in civilian and military missions, where we participate well in six missions. We have the command of both Irini, as has been said, and of the EUTM mission in Somalia. However, in essence, we are calling for the continuation of the missions for 2020, with the exception of Sophia, who completed his mandate on 31 March, of the TPH2 multilateral mission in the Palestinian territories and of the NATO device in the South-Eastern Borders of the Alliance; it was the security fence in support of Turkey. For all others, the Government requests an extension until December 2020. As Mr Di Maio pointed out, it is an instrument which acquires an increasingly strategic role in preferring conflicts, consolidating democratic institutions and stabilising areas of crisis. Also for 2020, in continuity with a recent past, the interventions focus mainly on the Mediterranean area and Africa, with a type of actions aimed at strengthening regional security and stability, supporting the countries most engaged in the fight against terrorism and the fight against illegal trafficking and irregular immigration. Approximately the numbers, in conclusion, the total maximum annual consistency of the contingents of the Armed Forces employed in the operating theatres is 7,488 units, with an increase of 145 units compared to 2019, and with an average consistency of 5,911 units, in this case with a reduction of 370 units always compared to 2019. The total financial burden of the extension is determined in approximately 1.409 billion, including 296 million from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would also like to express my thanks to our Armed Forces for the commitment shown with seriousness and professionalism recognized at all levels, reaffirming once again that our country has a long-term commitment, remaining among the most important contributing countries, both of staff employed and of financial contribution. Therefore, in today's complex and troubled reality, international missions are one of the preferred instruments for tackling complex crises and implementing an international policy adapted to new difficulties and crises. Thanks again, if I may, goes to all the men and women of the Armed Forces, the Arm of the Carabinieri and the civilian personnel of the Defense, for the extraordinary commitment in favor of the entire national community during the health emergency due to the epidemic of the coronavirus, demonstrating professionalism, competence and determination. In conclusion, the Commissions meeting 3rd and 4th gave a favourable assessment, with the contribution of all; I thank the Pacific Senator, for the work she has done with me, but also the two Presidents of the Commissions, the two Ministers, all the members of the Commissions and all the Groups who unanimously voted on the content of the deliberations of the Council of Ministers. A number of points have been raised in the course of the debate, such as the need - and I would add - for greater simplification of the parliamentary authorisation procedure for the start and extension of international missions. Therefore, the Commissions meeting 3rd and 4th propose to the Assembly to authorise all the missions and activities referred to in the resolution of the Council of Ministers within the time limits laid down in the resolutions before the Senate Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u30	I would remind you that any agenda for resolutions adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a may be submitted before the conclusion of the joint debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you, to whatever side you belong to, Members of Parliament or Members of the Commission, are working to protect human rights in front of the cameras. Today, however, this House will vote on the resolutions adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a on international missions. Among them is that which reaffirms and consolidates, with increased expenditure forecast, the role of sender of our country in the illegal rejection of migrants, in which the Libyans are mere performers. They do the dirty work that Italy can no longer do so openly, after the condemnation of 2012, when the Hirsi sentence recognized that Italy was working on illegal collective rejections. I want to be clear, though. Our country's participation in international missions is an essential component of foreign and security policy and, thanks to the professionalism of the military and civil personnel involved and the resources involved, strengthens Italy's position and prestige in the international community. But among these missions there is the mission in favor of that bunch of uniformed criminals, composed of heterogeneous characters by origin, which constitutes the so-called Libyan coastguard. It is an entity that, as has been documented in an indisputable way, has no autonomous operational capacity; the Libyan motor boats are led by the hand towards the shipwrecks also from MRCC Italy. There are audios and recordings that attest to that. This is exactly the demonstration of the fact that Italy is the sender and those are the performers. It is shown that they are the same Libyan militias which, on the one hand, manage human trafficking and, on the other hand, constitute the Libyan coastguard; they are the same. Two or three years ago, we gave them 1,600,000 euros. Last year we increased the supply for these thugs and gave them EUR 6 million. And this year? This year we'll give him 10. We give those thugs $10 million to do the dirty work we don't even have a face to do. Afterwards, this cooperation of the Italian Government with the Libyan one constitutes in fact a direct participation of our Country, that is, Italy, in the actions of refusal of migrants to Libya, in violation of all the conventions to protect human rights and in violation of the conventions on the law of the sea. It is then necessary to suspend immediately the agreements with the Libyans on flow control. The costs in these years have also increased and this is even more indecent. I shall conclude by calling on all my colleagues, but especially my colleagues in the PD (in fact, I am addressing my colleagues in the PD in particular), to be consistent with their own decisions. They themselves in the national assembly of 25 February 2020, unanimously approving an agenda, have taken the decision to overcome the role of the Libyan Coast Guard, which, in other words, does not exist, but is our projection. We are the instigators of a very serious international offense. I will therefore certainly not be able to vote in favour of this mission, although it is part of a commendable area. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u32	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u33	Mr President, in all the international missions that will be voted on today and which will see our military and security forces engaged, to which I and our gratitude go, I will focus first of all on the issue of greater political importance, which concerns our involvement in Libya. Everything that happens in the Mediterranean area concerns us, for strategic, historical, cultural and geopolitical issues related to the governance of migratory flows and energy issues. The resolution of the Libyan crisis is crucial for the stabilisation and growth of the whole area. It is on Libya that we pay off the failure and the lack of a European foreign policy, of a European vision. The competition of individual nations on that chessboard, the failure of Arab Springs calls into question the most harmful instincts of a regurgitation of dangerous postcolonialism, but to have a common European policy serves primarily a common migration policy, not of rejections, of criminalization of non-governmental organizations, of closed ports, but of humanitarian corridors, of rescues, of recognition of refugee status. Italy and Europe are this and that is why we must change our way of being in Libya and of conceiving Libya. It is not a question of abandoning it, rather of staying there more and in the right way, with an intervention that does not contradict realism and our constitutional values. Well the demining missions, the sanitary garrisons, the infrastructure for the reconstruction, no instead to the refinancing of the Libyan Coast Guard, because as we have written on the agenda unanimously approved by the Assembly of the Democratic Party, the Libyan Coast Guard does not actually exist, as demonstrated by journalistic investigations, by the dossiers of the United Nations and of the Council of Europe, that both ask us to suspend the relations and support to the Libyan Coast Guard, because it turns out to be a conglomerate of armed militias often in struggle with each other and often involved in the first person in the traffic of migrants and in the management of the so-called, notorious Libyan lager. That is why voting for refinancing means turning to the other side in the face of illegal rejections, arbitrary detentions, torture, violence, kidnappings, forced labour. But we are Italy, we cannot turn to this huge humanitarian disaster. We can't do that. All this happens in a frame, that of the memorandum Italy-Libya of 2017, when these things were not known. That memorandum was tacitly renewed in February, it has never been ratified by the Italian Parliament, yet there is an initial error: the intention to contract to Libya, a country that has never ratified the International Conventions on the protection of migrants, the control of migratory flows, contradicting an alleged reason of state and national security with the imperative principles of our rule of law. It is a country, Libya, which, as the UN has said, cannot be considered a safe port and therefore cannot have a rescue and recovery zone. The memorandum proved to be a failure even in its most important assumption: to bring the United Nations and its controls to Libya and detention centres. The opposite has happened: UNHCR has abandoned Tripoli, the UN has declared that it cannot control the situation of detention centres whose total number is ignored. It is for all these reasons, President, that the decision to continue to finance the Libyan Coast Guard hurts the reputation and authority of our country. Respect for human rights is a part of our national interest and that is why we will not vote for the refinancing of this mission, just as we loudly demand that the sale of arms to Egypt be stopped, until we have truth about Giulio Regeni, because everything is held. The hope is that Italy will regain even stronger its role as the leader of a European mission on migratory flows in the Mediterranean, that it will set up a system of relief, of contrast to illegality, asylum and integration, because for no reason our policy can be complicit in opportunism or cynicism of the tragedy that occurs in the Mediterranean, because - President, I conclude - there is a community of destiny between Europe, Africa and the Middle East and it is called the Mediterranean. And then it is necessary to affirm a cultural hegemony in order to have a geopolitical hegemony, making Italy and Europe a force that defends the universal values of the rule of law, does not betray them and does not betray itself, does not betray its own reasons, does not betray its own national interest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u35	Mr President, I give up my speech and ask the Presidency to be able to deliver the written text.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u36	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u37	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u38	Mr President, international missions are a choice of strategic importance for the country: they contribute to the peace and development of entire sensitive areas; territories where there are conditions of instability that could endanger our security. Therefore, our commitment is to ensure the protection of the people in our neighbouring countries, who live in crisis situations. That is, it is a humanitarian act. At the same time, it serves to protect a level of security from us too, at national and global level. Through international missions we decide in which crisis scenarios it is best to be present to promote stabilisation processes, because in these areas are at stake vital interests for our country, for example, for the possible implications of spreading terrorist cells or for the possible effects in terms of migratory flows. With the two resolutions on the agenda today, we are about to ratify Italy's participation in five new international missions and vote on the continuation of those already in place. With our armed forces, in the international scenarios in question, we do not pursue war objectives; on the contrary, our military presence has a role of potential deterrent, in order to defend peace and to ensure humanitarian assistance within the system of international alliances and coalitions in which we move historically; that is to say that we work in full harmony with the European Union, the United Nations, NATO: links that remain anchored and solid in order to continue to better face the transnational challenges we face. We are mainly present in geographical areas closest to us; firstly, the Euro-Mediterranean region, the Balkans, strategic topical areas both for the critical issues related to migratory flows and the terrorist threat. In general, at international level, we are faced with a situation of great instability: the growing disengagement of the United States in different areas of conflict has left open the way for rather enterprising and aggressive external forces, with the consequent creation of new regional balances that often cause humanitarian crises and new waves of migration to Europe, with all the consequences that this also entails for our country. That is why our efforts at peace, in a number of high-voltage situations, are particularly fruitful. With the two measures that the Government is preparing to submit to us, the most important missions already in place remain essentially confirmed; there is a slight increase in resources, which also applies to appropriations for development cooperation and support for peace processes. It is confirmed, for example, our presence in the Balkan area, both in order to monitor the criticalities related to the important migratory flows that periodically cross it, and to accompany the unpredicted process of European integration of the individual countries of the area. The mission, in fact, aims to support local institutions, supporting in particular the development and strengthening of the judicial, police and customs system, facilitating the adherence of these systems to internationally recognised standards. Therefore, an area in which our commitment to stability is particularly strategic, given the immediate proximity and tensions that exist. The mission in Afghanistan remains unchanged for the time being; there is currently a fragile negotiation between the United States and the Taliban. It is important to monitor closely the development of the situation both in relation to the developments of the peace process and with regard to the possible withdrawal of US military forces and the repercussions that such withdrawal could have on the security of our men, in order to assess the possible and necessary remodulation of the mission itself. The UNIFIL mission in Lebanon also remains the same. The importance of this mission also stands out as a result of the US-Iran tensions at the beginning of the year and the uncertain internal situation, so it is strategic to maintain a privileged position and a third and neutral role that avoids dangerous escalation. Our humanitarian support in Libya is also renewed, especially in relation to the Safe Sea operation and the health support to the hospital in Misrata, also in the light of the increasing difficulties related to the emergency Covid. In particular, our participation in the European mission Eunavfor Med Irini, under Italian leadership, is confirmed, namely the operation that replaces the previous Sophia mission and that aims to enforce the embargo on the supply of arms to Libya imposed by the UN, and provides the possibility to seize and dispose of any weapons identified. To these operations is added today, in Libya, a further mission of ours: the demining of possible devices in the area of Tripoli, an important humanitarian support, through which the excellent Italian experience can provide an effective contribution, capable of saving human lives. With regard to the extension of the participation of our Guard of finance and the Arm of the Carabinieri to the bilateral mission of assistance to the Coast Guard of the Libyan Navy, it must be noted the commitment expressed by the Government to modify the legal basis on which the cooperation is based, that is the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), undersigned by the Italian Government and the Libyan authorities in 2017. The amendment began to work properly last week, because Libya must ensure full respect for human rights and the presence of international organisations in refugee camps, with the gradual overcoming of the system of centres that host migrants. This is something that I would like to highlight in particular, also in the light of recent journalistic investigations, which have cast a disturbing shadow on the alleged collusion of the Libyan Coast Guard with traffickers of human beings and on the alleged diversion of Italian public resources on illegal activities, totally different from those for which they had been allocated. These are aspects on which it is necessary to clarify, in order to ascertain the truth, to ensure the full respect of the human rights of refugees saved at sea by the Libyan Coast Guard and kept in reception camps and also in order to avoid possible distortions in the use of aid by Italy. The mission resolution also provides for further new operations. First of all, the task force Takuba, which was requested by the Governments of Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Chad and Burkina Faso, in order to counter the terrorist threat throughout the area. The stability of these countries, crucial for the control of migratory flows from sub-Saharan Africa, is seriously threatened by the rise of jihadist terrorism. Operation Takuba consists of an inter-force multinational force, which has the mandate to train and assist the Saheli forces in the fight against jihadist groups. Our commitment is to make helicopters and their personnel available to enable the medical evacuation of people in danger. Special forces are also expected to be made available for training activities with regard to local staff. In addition to Operation Takuba, we are also planning a new mission in the Gulf of Guinea, an area of great importance for energy supply, which has been experiencing the scourge of African piracy for some years. The Gulf of Guinea, which faces two of the largest oil producers in sub-Saharan Africa, is considered the most dangerous stretch of sea, due to the number of attacks and acts of piracy on boats and crews. In 2019 the number of sailors taken hostage off the coast of West Africa increased by more than 50% and it is no coincidence that several countries, such as France, Spain, Portugal and even the United States, have been present in the area for years with national anti-piracy missions. Our commitment therefore makes it appropriate, both for the protection of merchant ships in transit, and of the extraction centres of the ENI, present in the area. The extent of the instability fronts, with which we are confronted at an international level, is clear. I believe that, as a country system, we can be proud of our commitment to the world, with which we try everywhere to limit conflicts and strengthen peace processes. We can be proud of this and we need these missions, which are intended as a privileged tool to deal with complex crises and to implement an international policy adapted to the new difficulties. In complexity, however, I believe that there is an opportunity for our country to assert more forcefully its political subjectivity and a greater role in defining more fully a foreign policy and security policy, which can define its priorities and pursue them clearly, starting from the Mediterranean area, which cannot but represent the core of our action. This is the responsibility which the historical passage of today gives us and the measures we are debating go in that direction. With the approval of the resolution we are going to take an important step, in this branch of Parliament, through which we express in a strong way a heartfelt thanks to the women and men of our Armed Forces, who commit themselves every day for the supreme good of our security and the peoples with whom they find themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u39	I apologise because it has also been a disenchantment of mine, Senator Garavini, but I call on all the speakers to reach the seats of this House for their speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u40	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, international missions are certainly not only part of a country's foreign policy, but they are also a litmus test, i.e. a significant manifestation of its government's objectives. For the little experience I have in this field I know that international issues are always bound up with battles of principle and reasons for political compatibility, national and international constraints, as well as the fact that we must, however, seek a mediation as advanced as possible in the direction we intend to take. I will not address today the general issues of our country's foreign policy, which often sway dangerously between statements of European-Atlantic fidelity and proximity to Beijing or some other authoritarian regime. I also believe that some years of international and national political militancy protect me from at least any accusation of being an isolationist or preaching "a disengagement" from the affairs of the world. However, precisely because of the importance of these actions, in the emotional attention of the whole House, I believe that "how," "where" and "with whom" of the commitment qualify or disqualify the nature of the commitment. The international missions are not all the same, and so, all the more so, I think - and I hope you will agree with me - that we cannot vote as a package: it is not so much a kilo. There are some more delicate international missions than others and, from my point of view, more unacceptable than others. I am referring directly to Libya, with a few comments, because most of the interlocutors you have chosen in the previous Secret Memorandum are pawns today in the hands of international actors who, above all, were not yesterday and even less are credible interlocutors today, not even to help us to control the migration phenomenon in a civil way. Italy has paid a price to stop with every means - I say well, with every means, even the most inhuman - the flows in the Mediterranean. I do not know, colleague De Falco, if Italy is sending. Surely it is paying, this yes - it is the ATM of these unbearable operations - and it has done so by choosing interlocutors who, as so many cases of news have shown, were representatives of criminal organizations, including the famous Bija, who go around Italy and it seems that nobody knows anything about it. It seems to me that Italy continues to pay a sort of ransom to the encounter: it pays the jailers, not to free the hostages, but to keep them captive, pretending not to know, while instead it knows and does. Precisely for this reason, the type of collaboration with Libya is a segment of our so-called policy of combating illegal immigration, which continues with a regulation from Count 1, comes from Salvini, with the Bossi-Fini law. However, let us deal specifically with these missions. I hope that you do not force me to leave the House to not vote on the whole, because there are missions that I support. I therefore hope that you will allow the senators of this House to vote on the various motions on the basis of reason. In particular, I refer to point 21, which is the bilateral mission of assistance and support in Libya, tab 22 and tab 38. The 38 card, then, I recommend it: it is the Safe Sea operation, as is said with a somewhat macabre irony, seeing what happens. Operation Safe Sea, which operates directly in cooperation with the so-called Libyan Coast Guard, which does not exist. There are militias, which change alliance as often as they say. The Coast Guard itself does not exist; yet, we cooperate with 6 naval, 8 airplanes and 754 personnel, military or health care units. This is tab number 38. While we're at it, I'd like to draw your attention to tab 29. Sheet 29 is the bilateral support mission in the Republic of Niger. Niger! You know? With 160 land vehicles, 5 aircraft and 295 military personnel. What they do or what they don't do, they don't know. Niger, however, is part of this large territorial area, where perhaps other European colleagues have very strong interests, especially on rare raw materials. I really hope that a firm point will be put in place and that it will start over again, with a total reset of our relations with Libya. It is no longer possible to go on with patches, sharps and bites. That's not conceivable. I would like to thank the rapporteur, the Pacific Senator, who, in the carelessness of everyone, including the Italian press, pointed out the case of cargo Cirkin. This should really worry you and means that the fantastic European mission Irini needs to be revised with different rules of engagement. This Cyrkin ship, flying the Tanzanian flag, departs from Turkey with 500 containers, is intercepted by the Irini mission... Mr Pinotti (PD). No, from Sea Guardian. It's another operation. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). No, first from the Irini mission, because of the drones, I assure you. Then, she's in charge of Sea Guardian. They intervene both a French ship and the Italian ship Carabiniere, but there is no way that such intervention is allowed, precisely because the rules of engagement those are. So no one stops her, no one can stop her or inspect her. So, the reset that needs to be done is total. It is clear that arms support in Haftar is simpler, because it happens on land. I figured that out, too. I believe, however, that we cannot, in the face of this situation, continue, as if nothing were, simply to prolong the humanitarian, political, disaster of lack of influence of our country. I hope at least, out of decency, that it will be possible in this House to vote for separate parts. The other missions are good for others, but I think that, on Libya and Niger, we need to start over. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u42	Senator Bonino, do I have to understand that there is a formal request to vote separately? BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u43	Mr President, today we are discussing a measure of great importance which concerns Italy's international missions, but above all it concerns the role and identity of Italy in the world, because on the basis of these choices we determine an important piece of the identity of a country. What are the reference values, the fundamental points on the basis of which you choose which missions to do and which not? Certainly Italy has always played a role in its choices on multilateral bodies: the UN, NATO and the European Union. It is no coincidence that in all three organizations Italy, as part of the military, is one of the first nations, because we have always believed in multilateralism and the shared choice for security. This responds to a choice of solidarity also with common security. We are therefore sometimes engaged in theatres that are very far away: we think of Afghanistan, a quadrant that is very important for the fight against terrorism, but it is certainly much more distant than the Mediterranean for our particular interests, but we think that we should also contribute in a way that is supportive of international security. The same applies, for example, to the 200 men and women we have in Latvia: a measure of reassurance. We participate by giving solidarity and expecting solidarity. Then there are missions that concern more directly the security of our country: for example, the Safe Sea is not a mission born for collaboration with Libya (only later the formation of the Libyan Coast Guard was inserted), but it was born in the terrible years in which terrorism was spreading and had the task of patrolling the seas to prevent dangers to Italy from various points of view (terrorism or other). It is a mission that starts with this objective. There is also national interest and in some missions we also look at our interests: what is happening in the Mediterranean, for example, certainly concerns our security, but also our national interests. The missions are many and on average the presence of our men and women is 6,600 units, but they can reach peaks up to 8,500. There are bigger missions and missions with few numbers. Sometimes one wonders why there are missions with few numbers. What's the point? They are multilateral missions, where sometimes Italians are observers, or very small missions where however Italy's request is explicitly made by international organizations because we have great skills and we have always managed our role with extreme intelligence. Other missions instead see a leadership of Italy that is defined by the number: you see it in Afghanistan, where we have a large number of presences because we are responsible for a PRT (provincial reconstruction team), that is an important area of Afghanistan. In Lebanon we have high numbers, because the UNIFIL mission, at least the new UNIFIL mission was born on an Italian push to stop a war. So we assume responsibility for being there. In Iraq we are present in high numbers, because, at the time of the ISIS offensive, we feel directly called to participate in the fight against terrorism, imagining that as a terrible element for the people, but also very dangerous for all of us, for all the countries of Europe and therefore also for Italy. On this front, therefore, we have more substantial numbers; as is still the presence in the Balkans, where the scenario has completely changed, but our presence is increasingly helping to harmonise the tensions that are still present in that area. The choices are therefore made on the basis of these three criteria. On Libya I do not shy away from the discussion on the points that have been highlighted by some senators interventions. Indeed, there is no doubt that each of us has been struck by some stories that migrants returned from detention centres and reports that have also been made by the UN: what is happening in Libya, which has happened and continues to happen, is something that has shaken all of us. But the question that we have to ask ourselves, and which I also address to my colleagues who have spoken, is: are we sure that this situation will not improve? I don't think so. I have heard unacceptable words: the sending Italy of what is happening on migrants? I'm sorry, but that's unacceptable. I have heard criticism (everything is critical) of the memorandum that had been made in 2017; but I remember that, already in that memorandum, for the first time had allowed UNHCR and the IOM to enter Libya, even if the successive dangerous situations did not allow these organisations to operate. I say this because it is not that there are those who are sensitive to human rights and those who are not. We are all sensitive to human rights. But the question is about the Libyan Coast Guard. We are not talking about financial matters; we are financing the formation of the Libyan Coast Guard and we are also giving some means. The question is: if our military, who know how they operate and on the basis of which conventions and principles, form the Libyan Coast Guard, which is actually a mixture (because there is the Coast Guard that depends on the defense, the one that depends on the interior, the one that depends on the municipalities and there are certainly the intertwines with the militias: are you choosing to cooperate with the Ministry of Defence), make us more dangerous, more insecure the situation of migrants? Do we not have the possibility of helping, not only to stabilize Libya, but - I say - also to the formation of security forces that can move on extremely different criteria? This is the question that I ask to those who have hurled themselves, with a force of conviction that I respect deeply, and have asked this question. I'm gonna put another one on you (I'm gonna close up and apologize if I'm too long). In the experience that I have gained, also as Minister of Defence, I went on the ships of the then operation Sophia (they were Italian ships on a European mission), to see how the Libyan Coast Guard was formed: I saw how they entered and how they came out, I saw the protocols that were used for training, which concerned, in the first part, precisely the conventions and rights. I'm sure they all did well after these courses? No, I'm not sure, but I certainly think that many of them have come out of there improved and therefore certainly more reliable. This is the direct experience I have had of a small part of what we are doing in Libya. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u44	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u45	Mr President, the debate on Italy's participation in international missions is an important moment for Parliament's reflection and direction on one of the main instruments of our country's foreign policy and defence policy. The 5 Star Movement, since its inception, has considered it necessary to achieve the objectives of foreign policy set out through the path of dialogue, cooperation, respect for cultures and self-determination of peoples. In discussing our country's military and civil engagement in theaters of war we must be aware that we live in times when security is a global problem and that, for this reason, what happens in the theatres operating thousands of kilometers from us invests us and concerns us directly. There was a time when the safety produced by only two countries could be consumed. This is no longer the case: we are all called to be consumers and producers of security, and we must do so by helping to ensure stability and security in the world, in defence of human rights, peace and democracy. Today with our foreign policy we can do so, because thanks to the choices of Minister Di Maio and of the whole Government we are recognized in the world as peaceful bearers of human, professional, social and economic values. In the Defence Commission there was a clear, in-depth and fruitful discussion of the issue of missions, which benefited from the contribution of all political forces, both by majority and opposition. Of course, then, inside and outside the Chamber were not lacking and there are lively attacks and colorful disputes moved to the Movimento 5 Stars. Everything is legitimate if it is part of partisan political confrontation. However, I must at least remind myself - and then others too - that we are in a position to carry forward the commitments made in the transatlantic alliance, in Europe, in international organisations, with the UN. And we will. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to carry out a detailed parliamentary assessment of our country's commitment to multilateral missions; an assessment of the national interests to be pursued; whether the missions in which our military are employed, carried out in three geographical areas, reflect the Italian strategic interests. Within this assessment is the decision to continue, on the part of our country... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u46	Colleagues, I invite everyone to lower the tone of voice and especially those who are in the vicinity of those who are doing the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u47	Please, Senator Donno. WOMAN (M5S). Within this assessment is the decision of our country to continue its participation in numerous multilateral operations, with a considerable effort in terms of personnel and financial resources. It is clearly a complex assessment and characterized by a considerable number of critical factors, beginning with the Mediterranean area, which in recent decades has lived and is experiencing a progressive extension of its geopolitical depth, covering the whole of the Middle East, the Persian Gulf, the Balkans and West Africa. In my opinion, this is an assessment that we can and must express here, bearing in mind that the priority objectives of our participation in multilateral missions and our development cooperation interventions are and remain the stabilisation of the ongoing crisis, the orderly management of democratic transition processes and support for reformist agendas inclusive of rights to the whole world. Faced with the enormity of these challenges, our country must respond on both diplomatic and military level, demonstrating a remarkable capacity for intervention in terms of the fight against terrorism in the Middle East African and Asian regions, contrast to human trafficking in North Africa and Sahel, humanitarian interventions in Libya, patrolling the Mediterranean and other maritime areas to protect national strategic interests. I just want to mention two missions and their importance. The Eunavfor Med Irini mission takes over from Operation Sophia and the priority task is to contribute to the implementation of the UN arms embargo against Libya by air, satellite and maritime means. It is important because inspections can be carried out on vessels off the Libyan coast suspected of transporting weapons to Libya and carrying out operations to seize and dispose of these products. As already for the operation Sophia, to seal of the excellent work carried out in the international contexts, the operating command of the operation Irini has center to Rome, with the headquarters inside the operating command of interforce summit (COI) of Centocelle. The operation is led by Admiral Fabio Agostini, to whom I wish good wind. Then there is the Takuba mission. Equally significant is Italy's proposal to participate in activities in the Sahel in the framework of the multinational interforce operation which will have the mandate to train and assist the local security forces in order to counter the terrorist threat in that strategic area. The Italian participation in the Takuba Task Force, in addition to contributing to the strengthening of security capabilities in the Sahel region, responds to the need to protect national interests in a strategic area considered as a priority. The current conditions of security are in fact of concern for Italy, because from this region there are illegal trafficking and migration flows, widespread violence and terrorism, with a direct impact on the security of our continent. The missions are therefore important and so are the resources that the Government has put in place, necessary to make the instrument of intervention both military and cooperation more efficient. In this we enclose the value of our armed forces, men and women of defence, military and civil, of our diplomatic corps, of our collaborators, of the volunteers of the associations, of the researchers of the universities and of the many companies that work daily on all these territories and that every day demonstrate that our country does not make a particular instrumental use of the international missions, but participates in it to put in action actions aimed at the defense, the protection and the formation of the peoples that will then be our partners in guaranteeing peace in the world. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u48	I always turn to those to whom I had addressed before, who had left and then returned and of whom I will shortly begin to mention the names.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u49	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, can you tell me how many minutes I still have, please? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. About three and a half minutes. WOMAN (M5S). Thank you. We must then be determined in our commitment against terrorism and committed to achieving a fairer and more responsible sharing of the consequences of the migration phenomenon, in order to face all the other challenges and humanitarian tragedies, which make the Mediterranean an epicenter of the global disorder. Well, whether you agree or not, today the facts show that Italy is respected in Europe and in the world, maintains its share of sovereignty, observes the obligations imposed by the pacts and claims respect for the rights of Italian citizens. The military operations strengthen the international projection of our country, therefore their continuation is important: they represent a valid instrument of foreign policy and international stabilisation and allow our armed forces also to train on the field and increase their operational capabilities. There is therefore no doubt about the absolute sharing and the strong support for what our Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. The transatlantic link represents for Italy and for Europe the most strategic of resources, precisely because it allows it to face and manage the complexity of international relations, always remaining faithful to its values and principles. In this way, we want to respect the commitment, also collectively made, with the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, to leave no one behind. To those who have said that this Government can be considered lucky because, while not sharing this foreign policy, it will never fail to support the Armed Forces engaged in international missions, I answer that it is precisely because it is strong of our choices in foreign and defence policy, based on the awareness of the value of the professionalism, competence and humanity of our Armed Forces. Our soldiers represent a national excellence, of which we are proud: there are well over 13,000 women and men in uniform daily engaged in operations; of these, more than 6,000 operate within the framework of the 37 international missions in as many as 24 different countries, while about 7,000 are employed on the national territory. It is not a concession but a duty to ensure that they are able to carry out the fundamental tasks assigned to them by the Constitutional Charter: the defence of the State; the sharing of security and collective defence with the partners of the Alliance and Europeans; the contribution to the realization of peace and international security; the fight against war; violence and terrorism, in short, everything that takes place during the missions. Why? Because, as Albert Einstein said, "The world is a dangerous place, not because of those who do evil deeds, but for those who observe without doing anything." Allow me, Mr President, to make one final point. I would particularly like to express my personal thanks, and that of the Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stars, to all men and women, civilians, co-workers, researchers engaged in the missions that we are preparing to authorize; a wish to them and their families for their hard work and the enormous sacrifices they make for the country. [[Applause),]] for the great work they put in place to curb injustice, suffering, war, violence, terrorism in the world for the benefit of democracy, to ensure peace for us too. It is to them, and only to them, that our thanks go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u50	The joint debate is closed. I note that the text of the resolutions of the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a has been presented with the G1 agenda, the text of which is being distributed. In the informal way, I have been informed that the rapporteurs will not reply, as they confirm. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the resolutions already adopted by the Commission at its meeting of 3rd and 4th meetings and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u51	Mr President, I welcome the resolutions. On the agenda of the G1, at the first signature of Senator Garavini, the following rewording is proposed: to put in place all the initiatives useful to shed light on the destination and the real use of the public funds allocated to the projects of the Libyan municipalities, as denounced also by the current journalistic investigations. If not, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u52	Senator Garavini, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government? Garavini (IV-PSI). Yes, ma'am, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u55	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy has always taken part in the votes on resolutions and documents authorising our international missions. In this case, we wanted and obtained, together with the other opposition forces, that the debate should take place in the Senate House in the face of the obvious contradictions that also emerged here among the forces of the majority and within the individual political forces. In our opinion, it was and is absolutely necessary to express clearly, without infancy, ambiguity and retro-thoughts, our clear support for the military already engaged in international missions. I would like to remind everyone - and of course to ourselves - that the document before us has also come very late, because we are now beyond the first half of the year - we are in the second half of 2020 - and we are voting for a text which authorizes and finances international missions that have already been carried out for half a year. It is, therefore, a resounding delay, all the more important also in the light of what would be necessary to give security to our military - a timely influx of resources and a clear legal and regulatory framework - in the face of such an extensive commitment as what our armed forces have abroad, in theaters of war and at risk on several continents. In addition, the document before us tells us that the Government has made commitments, which we share, for five new international missions and in the meantime has disengaged two of those scheduled. We are talking about the fact that Italy is engaged in 41 international missions, with 8,613 military abroad - we are one of the most committed countries in the world in international missions - and, according to the defense experts, at least 17 of them are particularly significant and challenging for the military device we have deployed. Of the 41 international missions, 12 are within the framework of the European Union, 9 within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance and 7 within the framework of the United Nations. In many of them, ad hoc coalitions have also been defined for a single mission: we are talking about 13 missions in which Italy, together with other countries, has defined a specific political and military coalition, thus assuming commitments to protect - so should be - its own national interests. Well, within the new missions - we must talk about them above all - some are particularly significant. I am referring, for example, to the Sahel, which is certainly an important and strategic theatre in which we are engaged with an important military device (200 military, ground forces and air forces); to the mission in Guinea, in the Guinean Sea, which is equally significant in the fight against piracy; and to the Irini mission. I say this to the Assembly because it should be careful to understand how a country unfolds on several continents with military offering its service, obviously running the risk of suffering attacks of various kinds and in any case in the context of war theaters. In this context is the Irini mission, which for other countries is already active and which is unfortunately wrong. I have to say this because, as it was formulated, it has an erroneous and completely ineffective underlying matrix. We say this with a sense of responsibility, all the more so in view of the fact that the mission should have prevented the trafficking of arms to the contenders in Libya and, therefore, essentially ensure that the arms embargo in the Libyan theatre was carried out. The mission is already in place and has already failed, because it is enough to read the national newspapers - I do not say the international newspapers, which perhaps few will read - to detect emblematic cases. One happened, for example, a month ago, when a freighter carrying containers in Turkey, already engaged in arms trafficking in different theatres, crossed the Irini naval fleet; this one tried to block the cargo, but - as you all know - the Turkish military frigates of the Atlantic Alliance prevented the operation from happening. What do we know today, in mid-July, in the face of a mission that has been deployed for months with other actors - we too, but not in this context - on the eastern Mediterranean sea? Not by chance, unlike the previous mission, this unfolds not on the Libyan coast, but on the eastern Mediterranean Sea, to curb the influx of weapons by ship. We know, however, that it is unable to curb the influx of arms, because the engagement and the way in which this mission has been carried out prevent its objective, and they have already done so; it is a safe, ineffective mission. We told you months ago when the government committed itself. If we wanted to achieve that objective, without the hypocrisy that is manifested in this House as well as in a theater of war such as the Libyan one, we had to realize with that mission a force of earth interposition, with different rules of engagement. You wanted to continue on the path of hypocrisy, of which you are world champions, deploying an ineffective mission to the point that ships have already supplied weapons some of the contenders. And this is so true that, thanks to the supply of weapons in recent months, an actor (Turkey) has managed to overturn the Earth's front. Today al-Serraj, who was under attack and under siege in Tripoli thanks to our ignorance - indeed, to your ignorance - has turned to Turkey and obtained the weapons and mercenaries that Turkey itself carried to that land despite the Irini mission, to the point that it was able to overturn the situation on the ground and today threatens the other front. What is the truth? Beyond the Palermo Conference held at the beginning of the legislature, the deployment of means, summits and meetings by the Italian Government, the truth is that Italy has lost Libya, because this is what we are talking about. Italy and Europe no longer count in Libya. According to some historians it is the worst defeat of Republican Italy, because we are out of our theater of main strategic interest; strategic with regard to the economy and energy routes, of which Turkey wants to appropriate; strategic with regard to the routes of immigrants, which Turkey wants to control; strategic with regard to geopolitical, geoeconomic and security. For this reason, in view of what you have expressed, I am shocked to hear, in the same governing party, what Senator Pinotti, former Minister of Defence, very responsible, said and what one of the Group's leaders, Senator Verducci, said. Of the two: either what Senator Pinotti says is true or what Senator Verducci says is true. Someone speaks and acts hypocritically. Senator Verducci said that there would also be - scandal among scandals - an agreement with criminals (words are his); an opportunist agreement (words are his); an agreement of cynicism (words are his) and complicity with criminals. And he told us that this is part of the missions that we will vote on. Of the two: either the one is right or the other is right. But no more hypocrisy. Enough with the word game. Enough demagogy. Enough with the words they don't follow, because you're never credible. When it comes to international missions, when 8,000 of our military are engaged abroad in 41 theatres of war; when we face a drama such as that of impotent Libya, ignorant and excluded from our main strategic interest, we cannot be hypocrites. And we cannot be in this House. We denounce it, and that is why we shall abstain from voting on the agenda, of course, and we shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. We would like each one of you to really express himself according to conscience, because on this there cannot exist the double game of which you are masters. We won't let you. [[Applause.]] 18.33 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u58	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, 8,613 are women and men engaged in one of our 41 international missions abroad, the missions on which we are going to vote today: young people working in impervious territories, often exposed to dangerous situations, often placed in real scenarios of war; women and men with a strong spirit of service, a strong sense of the State, aware of how important it is to ensure through them the presence of our country in complex contexts, in order to promote stabilisation and peace. This is what we are talking about: the different missions that we are going to ratify are an expression of our country's commitment to an international defence strategy; a strategy that aims to sew relationships, to restore peaceful contexts in entire territories and to avert wars; a strategy within which Italy seeks to promote political mediation. In fact, we are convinced of the geostrategic importance of our country's commitment to the stabilisation processes, particularly in a series of areas facing the Mediterranean, because the stability of the whole region has an impact on our own internal security. That's why talking about international missions means first of all talking about security, the security of thousands of our soldiers employed in the various operations abroad, but also the security of the countries in which we decide to intervene and also the security that results consequently for our country. Precisely at this stage in which the geopolitical situation of some countries of the Mediterranean and the enlarged Mediterranean area is particularly dense of conflicts, it is urgent that our country is active with all those possible peacekeeping efforts, through the integrated use of civil and military interventions, through development cooperation and through diplomatic-political action that is both economic and humanitarian, starting - for example - from Libya itself, where the situation is fluid, constantly evolving, but always very worrying. In recent weeks the Government of al-Serraj, recognized by the United Nations, has regained control of the most important cities and villages of Tripolitania, thanks also to the support provided by Turkey; an increasingly enterprising Turkey that takes advantage of the lack of US protagonism to expand its sphere of influence on several fronts of the Mediterranean, from Syria to Libya, up to the oil fields off Cyprus; a Turkey that is not scrupled to resort to arms and the use of violence, under the eyes of increasingly worried - alas even silent - of the European Union. Now on the Libyan affair further tension is added following the statements of the Egyptian President al-Sisi, who threatened to deploy his army in Cyrenaica to defend himself from the advance of Turkish troops towards Sirte. In essence, there is no time to resolve a conflict between al-Serraj and General Haftar, who immediately reveals another, even more serious one, between Egypt and Turkey, with the possibility of disastrous consequences for the whole area. Here it is useful that Italy, faced with an increasingly tense international situation, in a strategic area such as that of Libya, which is very close to us for a whole series of possible implications, from energy supplies to migratory flows, is present with concrete humanitarian interventions that can help the population and contribute effectively to the resumption of the peaceful development of the whole area. Well, then, the restoration and prediction of humanitarian missions in Libya; well the continuation of our health support to the hospital in Misrata and to the Safe Sea, as well as our participation in the European mission Eunavfor Med Irini and the new operation for the demining of bombs in the area of Tripoli. Respect, instead, to the extension of the participation of our Guards of finance and Arm of the Carabinieri to the bilateral mission of assistance to the Libyan Coast Guard, must quickly end the approval of the new memorandum of understanding between the two Countries, to which it is being worked for a few days. Italian collaboration must be linked to Libya's commitment to respect for human rights and to the possibility that international refugee organisations may have access to refugee camps. It is also necessary to clarify the revelations that have emerged from recent journalistic investigations, from which there are alleged collusions between the Libyan Coast Guard and human traffickers; traffickers who would have been illegally wound up with Italian public funding. It is our duty to ascertain the truth and to put in place all possible measures to prevent our aid from being used to feed precisely those who trample on the human rights of thousands of refugees. The commitment to stabilisation also applies to other missions - for example - to those in the African sub-Saharan region, where most of the migrants who then end up in the hands of human traffickers come from. It is precisely there that a commitment to peace and prosperity is particularly appropriate, so as to offer opportunities that do not lead people to risk their lives at sea. This is also true of the operations envisaged, from that in Tunisia to that in the Gulf of Guinea, regardless of the objective pursued by the individual, because they all aim to better protect national security insofar as they intervene in those crisis scenarios in which there are vital interests for Italy, promoting the prevention and management of conflicts and the peaceful development of relations; all this in the continuation of the system of international alliances and coalitions within which Italy has moved historically, namely the European Union, NATO, from the point of view of multilateralism; links that remain fundamental to continue to best address the transnational challenges that await us. Here are the big issues of our time - from terrorism to wars, cyber security and migration flows - of such a dimension that no nation in the world can think of solving them on its own. That is why we can only deal with multilateral issues; on the contrary, I believe that, only by strengthening the multilateral instruments and the governance capacity of the entire international community, even more so today than in the past, can we be able to cope with today's complexity, which is increasingly articulated, in order to guarantee our societies development and well-being. In this respect, I believe that the historic phase that is opening, characterized by a progressive fraying of the system of international relations, also gives an opportunity both to Italy and to the European Union: to become the key supporters of multilateralism. It should not be forgotten that Italy is among the first countries in the world for its commitment to international missions, with a strong approach of humanitarian solidarity and peacekeeping. That is why, with such participation, it is appropriate for our country, in its foreign policy lines, to juggle to open up a political area of co-decision in international areas, with a clear profile of support for multilateral bodies and, above all, of strengthening the European Union. The debate on the international missions of our armed forces also serves this: to outline a strategic perspective through which to inspire the political and diplomatic initiative of our country. At the same time, the debate in this House must serve to make strong and compact the support and gratitude of all political forces and of the whole Parliament to women and men of our armed forces; women and men who work in the name and in the name of Italy against wars, against terrorism, for a safer Italy and a safer Europe; men and women of whom we are very proud; we are proud of their daily commitment to peace and development. [[Applause.]] 18.43 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u61	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to support today's resolutions on the subject of Italian military missions, which are an instrument, as Senator Garavini has just said. I listened to Senator Pinotti in the debate; I could not add anything more and better to their speeches: they were very clear in identifying what is the task of Italy. We are a country that, if it has a relevance in the global scenario, which has certainly changed a lot compared to that of many years ago, has it also and especially for the foreign policy that we can express through the military missions in which we are present. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to add so many words, but I want the substance of a collective sentiment of the nation to be in the act. I will never forget when, with President Ciampi, we welcomed on a dramatic night the remains of the fallen poor of Nassiryia. Those soldiers of ours have not fallen in vain; those of our children have not fallen in vain. We must always bear in mind how many Italians and Italians we have sacrificed in the missions of peace, which have fallen not only for our homeland, but to fight against terrorism, for peace and for the principles to which the Republican Constitution adheres and inspires itself. Therefore, military peace missions are an integral part of our common feeling. If you would allow me to make a joke, this morning I was accounting for the years in which I was in Parliament and for the years in which I was in the majority and the opposition. I must confess that almost everyone thinks that it has always been a majority, even if it is not true. The majority of the years I have been in are, however, twice as many as I have been in opposition, but this is a long, long period of years. Well, whether I was in the majority or the opposition, I never lacked my strong vote in support of the Italian military missions, because this is part of a collective baggage and a heritage of the nation, which we should all support together, majority and opposition, because our roles can change, but the military must feel that they have a united country behind them to support them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u64	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who have been part of this House in particular in the last parliamentary term know how many times we have put forward a number of issues, including the method, on the discussion of international missions. In particular, we have highlighted the fact that this House has every right to examine international missions - and therefore also to express itself on them - one by one. Many of these missions - like other interventions have long emphasized - are absolutely necessary, we approve them in full and are a very important element for the prestige of the country and also for the action it carries out in those places. I could mention a lot of them: I am thinking of those in Lebanon and other missions that have seen our accession, which continues to exist. However, there are other missions that I believe would be good for this House to discuss in depth. Senator Bonino mentioned a few of them, perhaps worthy of further consideration, without taking anything away from the work of the Commissions. I repeat that the spirit of the law on international missions was also to allow the Assembly and individual senators and deputies to express their opinions and also their votes in a different way, mission by mission. I think that would be very good for our country. The debate on missions cannot be confined every year only and only, according to the governments that are - even if, in the end, they are always the same - to an act of unconditional trust. The choices we make, the choices we continue to make, foreign policy are at stake. I think it would be good if we did not deal with certain issues in a often distracted way; above all - I repeat - I am not at all convinced that this should be the way in which we proceed. Today we are faced with two resolutions, one of which is obviously less problematic, No 20, while the other, No 21, refers to missions on which perhaps a specific focus would have been needed. Among these, in particular, there is the mission of support, support and assistance to the Libyan Coast Guard, which, as far as we are concerned, is absolutely unacceptable. I want to dwell on this. We know perfectly well that, since 2011, not only is Libya an absolutely unstable country, but there is more: it is in the grip of civil war and militias, on the one hand and on the other, regularly commit serious and systematic violations of human rights. On Libya there is also a game of hegemony with regard to the Mediterranean, on which Italy certainly has very important interests, as well as of course also on Libya. All the more so, given all that we do - I am thinking of the missions, the way in which we put ourselves, in which we follow and also put in place our strong diplomatic capacity, even if we know perfectly well that, not only for us, all the operations and attempts in some way of peace have not led to anything up to now and there are new actors in the field - just for the role and prestige of Italy, I believe that we cannot afford - and I say this in the interest of the Government - to have a spot like that - I could say other things - of the mission of support and assistance to the Libyan Coast Guard. What is happening in Libya? Fortunately there is the daily newspaper "Avvenire" which I will always thank because maybe it is the most documented newspaper, the one that gives us all the information and allows us to have a look at the world from here too. The latest investigations tell us very serious things and it does not pass day without being denounced in prisons and detention centers the use of violence and torture in a continuous and systematic way. There is a repression of the right of expression in the country, with everything it means to journalists and bloggers. Women are particularly exposed. How many cases of violence and systematic rape at the hands of the so-called representatives of the Libyan "institutions"? There are tens of thousands of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers subjected to this kind of harassment, torture and blackmail. In the centres of the Directorate-General for the fight against illegal immigration, thousands of people are illegally detained, tortured and subjected to violence of all kinds. Operations, both against migrants and against NGOs seeking to save lives, continue and have also intensified and I could continue. Libya has declared its area of competence SAR (Search and Rescue) without the necessary security requirements. We support the so-called Libyan Coast Guard: someone has called them criminals and we know perfectly well that many are, not only ex, but also current traffickers of human lives and illegal immigrants, with all that this entails, with continuously documented crimes, because of real crimes. It is no coincidence, among other things, that the International Criminal Court has opened an investigation for crimes against humanity. The UN, the European Commission and the European Council have repeatedly ruled out Libya as a safe port. Now, Italy continues to provide support to Libya, even in terms of sightseeing and training, canceling, in fact, every own rescue program at sea. The consequence is that, at this time, there is no relief system in the Mediterranean and, in recent months, cases of rescue omission have been reported several times. We could, also here, continue to list a series of data, but I just want to return the position of the UN Secretary-General, who expressed great concern about the conditions of migrants in Libya and asked all states to review the policies of support for Libya. The attempt to access detention camps, prison camps, continues to be foreclosed to UN officials. Among other things, therefore, for the reasoning that I have made before, not being Libya a safe port, to bring back continuously the saved people in Libya - because this is what happens - represents the violation of all international conventions and treaties. We continue to support Libya. This year, we even have an increase, so from 6 million we reach just over 10 million. This, for us, is absolutely unacceptable. Not only that: the head of the Libyan Coast Guard is also the head, in fact, of some militias (according to the UN it is precisely a criminal organization, which manages the trafficking of human beings) and was also received in Italy. For all these reasons, it is clear that we are also calling, officially, Mr President, for a split vote and that, therefore, in document XXIV, No 21, we can vote, on the one hand, on all the missions and, on the other hand, on card 22, which is the support mission for the Libyan Coast Guard. I hope that the House will accept this request, even on a straightforward matter. We could have asked for a split vote for all missions, but it is very important on this that the House accepts a split vote. We will vote against it, because not in my name, as in the name of others, we can continue to support these crimes. If the House does not do so, you will of course put us in a position to not be able to vote on all the remaining missions, many of which we share and support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u67	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, we have the opportunity today to debate and vote on our country's foreign policy. When we vote on military missions and development cooperation initiatives, we are voting on one of the main instruments of our foreign policy. It means to reflect, reason and then make decisions about our posture, about how Italy compares with the main passages concerning international relations. The world is changing and changing at an impressive speed on the front of international relations. The Covid-19 and the pandemic have speeded up some of the current dynamics. Clearly, the international order we knew before is changing. On the one hand, the United States, under Trump's presidency, experienced a change. Despite the deep state being inside the furrow and the mainstream of the choices of previous alliances, Trump has imposed a more unilateral route. It came out of the Iranian nuclear agreement; it came out of the climate agreement; it took decisions that seemed unthinkable, such as the withdrawal, albeit partial, from Syria. On the other hand, China, with the Belt and Road Initiative project and international protagonism, stands as a new actor. This leads to the construction of a new bipolarism in which Europe risks staying out if it does not realize the stakes. Then our way of putting ourselves within this changing world order must be that of a regional power that realizes that it can play its games if it plays them in Europe and within the Atlantic Alliance and international organizations in general, that is, if it reaffirms a new model of multilateralism. Italy wins in the world if it can interpret its role in a multipolar order. Multilateralism is fundamental, so much so that we in the Atlantic Alliance are in Afghanistan and Bosnia, for example, to mention the most important ones; as for the international coalitions against terrorism we are in Iraq and we decide to go into a very delicate and dangerous operation. I have not heard of it and I am a little surprised, because it is one of the most delicate operations on which we decide, perhaps even a little' lightly from some, to go to the Sahel. It is a very complicated and delicate operation, where the French paid a very high price with blood. We are within the European initiatives: Irini, which has already been mentioned, is the most important one in the Central Mediterranean and Libya, but there are others, for example in the Palestinian context or in reality as important as the Iraqi ones. Then there is the United Nations, Lebanon and Kosovo. I would like to remind you - I am thinking of the theatre of the Central Mediterranean, by giving examples - how we have shown in the past that we can reconcile the protection of our national interests, the theme of taking charge of a piece of the burden sharing and the sharing of the security of the international community, with the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in which we believe. We do so in contexts where those human rights are obviously not protected, because otherwise we would not go there. In Kosovo we went, we were from the beginning and we collaborated with a gentleman named Hashim Thaqi, who was head of the KLA and was considered a terrorist by the Serbs. That person is indicted today by the Special Prosecutor of the High Court of The Hague for crimes against humanity, and we don't talk? When are we in Kosovo with our military? It is clear that we must talk to him, since he is the President of the Republic! But there, thanks to our presence, we allowed that Republic to evolve, that they no longer killed themselves, that there were no more rapes and there was no more ethnic cleansing: all this thanks to our presence, thanks to our military and thanks to this approach that also protects human rights. [[Applause]] The same thing we did in Lebanon: didn't we have to go there because we had to talk one day yes and one day not with the men of Hassan Nasrallah, Hezbollah's leader, who was outlawed and considered a terrorist organization by the United States and Germany, our main ally in Europe? Weren't we supposed to talk to each other? On the other hand, thanks to our presence, in dialogue with them, with a balance position towards the Arab world, we have ensured that we do not clash with one of the most delicate borders, which is obviously the one with Israel. Lebanon, Israel, Syria, the Golan Heights, the farms of Sheba: thanks to us that area is maintained with a very low intensity, thanks to our presence and thanks to our dialogue with the Arab world, which also protects human rights. Shall we talk about Afghanistan? Where the most basic rights of women were not respected, where they did not go to vote, where the same girls could not go to school, thanks to our NATO mission, thanks to the security guaranteed and also talking to those gentlemen who did not allow the rights, who are not shins of saint, if you go to see the prisons as they are, we allowed for the first time women to go to vote and for the first time the children went to school. [[Applause]] The same can be done in Libya and the Central Mediterranean, a changed and much more delicate context than in the past. There are new powers, already strong regional powers playing their games in the central Mediterranean and Libya: I am referring to Russia and Turkey, which have invented a new model of competitive cooperation or cooperative competition, let's call it what we want. Turkey and Russia are intervening with weapons, initiatives and devices that we are not prepared to put in place. They decide to send the soldiers from one side to the other. They decide for the war option. We disagree with the war option. We don't send drones. We don't send weapons. We send our men to make peace, to ensure that the fight against terrorism is there; to ensure that the management of migratory flows is there; to ensure room for international organisations, which for the first time have been able to enter Libya: UNHCR and OIM were able to work there because the Italian Government allowed it. I realize that the context is bloody complicated; but if it's bloody complicated, the answer can't be: we're leaving, we're not interested. I think that we must stay in Libya, perhaps even in a different way, guaranteeing an evolution. We get there, but we get there with the policy of small steps, with graduality, not with the proclamations and threats, putting everything together: the protection of human rights, the strategic interests of our country, the defence of the citizens who are there and of our military and also national security. Having our Navy in front of the Libyan coast, as far as we are concerned, is a matter of national security and I think that we must all be responsible and called back. Thinking of leaving control of migratory flows to our coasts alone is a political error; it is a serious political error. I think that we must also be there; we must stand next to Serraj, try to improve the situation, open detention camps to international organisations, overcome them, guarantee humanitarian corridors to our territory, ensure that those who work do so according to all the Christs and international rights, respecting international conventions. But woe to withdraw from that theater! I shall conclude on a particularly important issue. I must thank the two Ministers, the Minister of Defence Lorenzo Guerini and the Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio for the work done in that area. The Irini mission has changed some of the issues and I want to point out to those who point out the negative actions of the Government, also from the front of the majority. There have been some evolutions: the Irini mission allows, for the first time, to bring within a multilateral dimension the assistance and formation of the Libyan Navy and does so allowing and asking that all international conventions, including those concerning the rescue of people at sea, are respected, and stating that it is not only Italy, but also Greece and other countries to be considered safe ports. If Greece saves people, lives in the Mediterranean, it will take them to its ports, because this is sharing: what previous governments had not done is doing this Government. There is therefore an evolution; just as there is an evolution with respect to the Libyan Coast Guard: we will no longer support the Coast Guard of the Libyan Ministry of the Interior; the interventions will be on the Navy and will be less and less. If the Irini mission succeeds, we will bring training and training into a multilateral dimension. We will have Europe behind the Libyan interlocutor and we will be even stronger. Therefore, the vote can only be favourable on all the missions, involving 8,500 women and men, to which goes the thanks of the Democratic Party Group for the extraordinary work they do around the world. [[Applause]] We must put them in a position to do their job and give a clear signal from this House, well aware that, when they go abroad, our military must be able to protect our strategic interests, to guarantee national security and to ensure, yes, by taking steps forward, also the promotion of the rights and freedoms in which we believe and which we have carved in our Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u70	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just now in the House, on a fundamental subject such as the electoral law, I believe that there has been yet another defeat of the majority, because a deadline has been set for the amendments - on 16 July - and a majority group has expressed its opposition, as well as of course the right-wing groups. On the events of the motorway concessions (a vexed question) we are witnessing a pantomime. The bridge of Genoa has been rebuilt after a huge tragedy; we are at the paradox that in a few days we will not know who is to be tested and who is to be handed over the bridge, because a piece of majority maintains the position of the withdrawal of concessions, while others seem more led to a negotiation. I could continue for a long time on the lack of homogeneity of the majority on fundamental issues. We have seen the decree "unless otherwise agreed," the decree "waiting" as our President Bernini calls it. Today I invoked the decree Lazarus, get up and walk: it will be the next one you will adopt to keep alive a dead government in the conscience of the people and in the numbers of Parliament. [[Applause]] Budgetary deviations have been made for which, without the decisive vote of all the groups in the united centre, who voted in favour, in the interests of the Italians and in the hope of a correct use of resources (which was not there), you would not have had the quorum required, neither the Senate nor the Chamber of Deputies. And if you make any further deviations, we said we'd like to discuss how to use the money first, because we're on the side of that million workers who haven't yet seen the money from the INPS. [[Applause]] Today there are no numbers on foreign policy too. You may wonder what I'm talking about. First, Mrs De Petris, who is now a leading majority leader (she has always fought a lot of opposition, but now plays an important role in the majority), said that she did not agree with point 22 of the motion for a resolution and asked for a split vote. This is not the first time that left-wing majorities are not cohesive, self-sufficient and independent on foreign policy issues and international missions. Many years ago, the center-right had to question whether, in a delicate phase of Italian politics, to vote in favour of military missions when there was the Prodi Government, which did not have a majority. Then it was another Italy, there were Bertinotti and others, today there is Senator De Petris; the numbers were probably a little different. The center-right could have dropped that government (which later fell anyway), but it voted for missions abroad, considering them - then as today - an instrument of the politics of the country, democracy and freedom in the world. It was a very difficult choice. Many voters wrote us letters and letters (already there were e-mails) with which they asked us: why didn't you drop the government? We said at the time that the country's strategic interest in military missions came before an accident. Prodi did not fall that day, he fell shortly after, so the government has the times marked and counted: he can resort to trusts, reformulations and a series of gimmicks, but he will not go far. As the Commission has done, we are voting in favour of the motions for resolutions for confirmed and innovative missions. I have to claim that the centre-right groups in the Foreign Affairs, Migration and Defence Committees gathered signatures a few days ago for this debate to take place in this House. The new mission law was adopted years ago and, since missions are now a permanent fact (may increase or decrease, but Italy has an important commitment), it has been decided that one can evaluate in the Commission unless a number of parliamentarians ask for the debate in the Chamber, which the Forza Italia, Fratelli d'Italia and Lega groups did days ago. We did well, first of all to highlight this issue of foreign policy and then to point out, once again, that the country does not have a majority even in the matter of foreign policy, which is a strategic and fundamental fact for Italy. [[Applause]] We are with the armed forces, so that they can have the support of Parliament. I will not go into the details of the various missions even for the economy of time, but the vexed question is that of Libya. In the previous parliamentary term, with Mr Romani and others, we asked for permission to carry out a cognitive investigation in the Defence Commission, then chaired by Senator Latorre, and we highlighted the ambiguity of NGOs, which we called the sea taxis, strongly supporting military missions for the formation of the Libyan Coast Guard. Senator Vattuone, who is sitting next to me, was in the Commission and will remember that we unanimously voted on a code of conduct for NGOs (I do not know how much is respected or not). We also unanimously agreed that missions to the Coast Guard were needed and that the Eunavfor Med mission (now there is another one under another name) should also take charge of this aspect in order to avoid the trafficking of illegal immigrants and to ensure that Libya controlled its territorial waters and took charge of a Sar area that had not even been defined, an area of relief and search for refugees or illegal immigrants. We have therefore done a government action even when we have been in opposition, in the other legislature, in the strategic interest of Italy. The Libyan question has been in our history books for some centuries, not only in the recent history of unitary Italy, but also in that of past centuries. We are here, so it is clear that interaction with Libya is crucial. I do not dwell on the failures of Italian foreign policy, which left room for Turks, Egyptians and Russians: everyone decides what happens in Libya, except us; because of the errors of foreign policy, we were overwhelmed in 2011: the government and also our foreign policy, for that wrong war and now, instead of a Gaddafi - bad character - we have various Gaddafi, with whom we have to deal every other day (one day with one, one day with others). Everyone admitted that that war, strongly wanted by pacifist Obama, by Blair and others, also in France, was a wrong choice and our attempts to prevent it failed: we were defeated in that very tragic year for the center-right, 2011, in which there were other events, for which we refer to the recordings that are heard on television. We are here to reaffirm a policy of seriousness and continuity on the part of Forza Italia, who ruled this country and carried out a foreign policy that, from Putin to the United States, from North Africa to the Middle East, has allowed us with credibility to be the ones that gave lustre to this country. When we ruled, there was Sea Practice, with Russians and Americans, not today's pathetic foreign policy. Today the missions - not military, the political ones - realized in Venezuela, to act as a lackey to Maduro, an ignoble dictator, of which you weave the apology. This is foreign policy: do the lackeys of China - and the Silk Road: you are selling out the ports and infrastructure of this country to the Chinese - a country that denies civil rights. Dear Senator De Petris and dear President Garavini, who has drawn up an agenda on which we will abstain: it is nice to speak - rightly - of the human rights that the Libyan Coast Guard would like to respect; also tell Xi Jinping - it is called so, Undersecretary Di Stefano, not Bing, tell his boss - to respect human rights in China, where there is still repression of every right and marches on the people of Hong Kong: all things you keep silent, because you are the lackeys of Maduro and the apologists of China. We therefore vote for Italy, the international missions and the Armed Forces and we note that the majority is not there, once more; we for Italy and the Armed Forces are always there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u73	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when I address a greeting to the authoritative members of the Government, as well as to my fellow Members, I would like to say that the Lega Group and I personally express our gratitude to the Armed Forces and our fellow citizens in uniform. We do this because these people - these fellow citizens in uniform - risk their lives away from home to protect the Italian national interest [[Applause]] and, ultimately, our sovereignty, as well as the freedom to be here to speak and support them. Let me say that the armed forces do not decide on which international mission to participate in or on which distant land to intervene or for what reasons to go there: they obey politics - to the political decision-maker - which should have a vision of foreign policy consistent with the interest of the country. There is talk of multilateralism and participation in missions as a result of being part of bodies such as the European Union, the UN, etc. Beautiful, but it is not a point game, so more soldiers send themselves to UN missions and the more popular they become. We participate in missions that are in the national interest and if they are present in initiatives of supranational bodies, very well; if not, we can also intervene individually. Since the opposition of the centre-right, as my colleague Senator Gasparri pointed out earlier, has always been constructive, I can also say that I welcomed with astonishing interest the mission in Guinea, to protect also the interests of the country. Our main oil and gas company, ENI, is there rooted, with important interests for the country, threatened by piracy and instability of the area and, therefore, these interventions come well. I also cannot say, for example, of the indecisive intervention represented by the Irini mission. A Europe that is afraid of refugees, so much so that it has created the pull factor: basically if there appears a raft of illegals or priceless, fake clandestine on the horizon, the commander can decide the repositioning of the international military fleet. It would be the first case in history in which a boat of refugees or presumed refugees manages to withdraw an international fleet. That's funny, that's interesting. Are we more afraid of the reception of refugees throughout Europe and of European sharing and solidarity or are we also afraid of the rejection of illegal immigrants? What is it that scares our European friends the most? Let's go to the Sahel. In 2014, the Barkhane mission, which means the French-led dunes, begins in the Sahel a work of stabilisation and counter-terrorism. They invite us to participate and Italy politely declines. Today we ask to participate, but with a simpler operation of formation and support to countries in crisis in the area: that is, essentially, when we were invited to do anti-terrorism, we refused and today we ask to participate with a secondary role. Attention, the analysis in saying that the Sahel is - let's say - the antechamber of the flows of illegal immigrants from Libya arrive at us. Of course, we all know that, but what surprises me is the indecisive and late intervention of a majority similar to the one that was there in 2014, removed the Movimento 5 Stars. Here too, I have many questions about the seriousness of the approach to counter-terrorism. I also wanted to know if anyone has ever been interested, again in the Sahel area of Route 10, the tenth road, the tenth parallel, that which unites Venezuela with Guinea, narrower stretch of Atlantic than the whole corridor itself, which is the cocaine corridor for Europe. A source of income for international criminals, who then exploit the same route from Guinea to the Mediterranean as illegals, but we do the training of local police in Mali and Niger, which is our task. I'm surprised, it's not a criticism. The League will vote in favour of international missions, it will abstain on the agenda because we are responsible for the problems of Italy and the Italians, not for the problems of the majority. [[Applause]] The last notation on an international mission concerns the Emasoh mission to the Strait of Hormuz. It is improper to talk about it because it is not present among the international missions that we are going to approve today. Too bad, however, that at the end of January it was announced with a press release by the Italian Ministry of Defence, as participation; in February it became the subject of a response to a question time and the Ministry answered "Certainly," we will participate in it; on May 30, again with a press release, it is said that no longer participates. Are there no money or lack of political will and coherence, since the mission has the function of finding security for international trade and international trade in the Strait of Hormuz? There are about 14 million barrels a day - I repeat: per day - of oil passing through there and who is threatening this important Strait, as the Americans call it, bottleneck? Iran, which is the country that is often historically, but also today, threatens to close the Strait of Hormuz, strangling the global economies, all except one: China. From there China earns 38 percent of its oil needs. With bilateral agreements, however, China is the only one not to participate with military missions in that area. However, we have Chinese military ships in the eastern Mediterranean. Let's do the math. We should be a little more assertive, using a word derived from English, which is ugly and sounds bad in Italian, but which means simply asserting one's interests with energy and not doing as a Council President who on January 15 candidly said that he would not send a military or a plane to Libya, because pacifist: flowers in our cannons. [[Applause.]] Solemn thanks have come from those who are spreading Libya, including Turkey. Enough with the policy of surrender; we support international missions not to help an unqualified majority, but to give a signal to the Italians. I apologise to the military on mission for the fact that we are at 7 July 2020, there are five months to the end of the year and we are voting for the extension of the missions for the year 2020, it is a scandal! [[Applause]] We wait for December and make two years in one, at least in 2021 we will be on time! I'm silent - excuse the expression - because I have other things to say. Consistency, vision. In foreign policy, do as the ENI, which without support from anyone has arrived in Libya and Nigeria, and thanks to which we have the Zohr deposit off the Egyptian territorial waters. Eni, moreover, is desperately working with the Government of the Greek part of the island of Cyprus and we, as an Italian policy, do not give sufficient support because the Turkish Navy hinders the prospections. Let's do something, let's do real foreign policy, an assertive Italian foreign policy. No more multilateralism: it is a chat, it is the chat of those who are afraid. [[Applause]] Multilateralism is the talk of fear. We are with all the associations and supranational bodies whose interests coincide with ours, but we must not make our interests coincide with those of others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u76	ORTIS (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, today in the Senate Chamber we are going to explain again for this year the international posture of Italy by expressing to us about the most important instrument available to the country to define our role within the international scenario: military missions abroad. The recent government measures on the subject which are being voted on today provide for important changes. Together with the continuation of the missions already in place, we are called to give our permission to start five new military operations to be deployed on African, Middle Eastern and Mediterranean theatres. With regard to the Mediterranean, it is not necessary to remember what and how much efforts Farnesina has made in the management of the now ten-year Libyan crisis. This is in the desire to pursue a peaceful solution to the violent conflicts that are affecting that region and that have involved, in their evolution, almost all of the regional powers, helping to complicate, in the formation of adversaries and international alliances, the already complex framework in itself. As our Minister Di Maio has repeatedly said, it is necessary for Europe to be able to speak with one voice, drawing out of the logic of the clash between powers and deepening its commitment solely to the promotion of peace on that tormented territory. We therefore welcomed last 31 March, the day of the Sophia operation, the decision of the Council of the European Union to launch the new Irini mission, which I remind you - not to this House, but to those who follow us from home - means peace in Greek. This mission, even more than European obligations, links us to the national interest and the natural Mediterranean projection of our country. As you know, this mission has the aim of ensuring that the arms embargo against Libya wanted by the UN is implemented and, in second order, to collect information on illicit exports of oil, to contribute to the military formation of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy and to participate in the dismantling of the networks of trafficking in human beings. All this will take place under the guidance of Rear Admiral Agostini, at the Commando Operativo Interforze with center in Rome, as already for operation Sofia. In changing the scenario and neglecting for reasons of time the other three new missions provided for by the resolution of the Council of Ministers and of which the rapporteur has already punctually illustrated the main features, I would like to focus on our participation in the anti-terrorist task force Takuba, whose aims and aims perhaps need to be quickly deepened. First of all, we are talking about the context in which our 200 soldiers go to work: the operation is part of the so-called coalition for the Sahel, whose field of action coincides with the border areas of Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. This is a problematic area like few others in the world and, despite its relative remoteness from our national borders, it is of fundamental importance for our country, since it is from here that - as already said - they originate many of the serious issues that afflict the southern shore of our territory and of the whole European continent: on all, the illegal trafficking and migratory flows managed by organized crime and the terrorist cells of the place. Despite the context of violence where our men and women will go to work, it is to be remembered, as in all the global scenarios where Italy is present, that our participation is known as a peacemaking force. The tasks of the Takuba operational unit range from the advice and training of the local armed forces to the maintenance of an adequate level of security of the territory. As General Vecciarelli recalled in his recent hearing on 26 June, every single mission of which we are part, far from having any offensive character, is a natural and effective declination of the national vocation for peace, stability, security, justice, democracy and the protection of human rights, finding its polar star in the principles inspiring the Constitutional Charter and the United Nations. It is also made famous and worthy of our nation as our military stand out, among all the other Armed Forces, for their competence, skills, professionalism and above all for a special characteristic, which makes them well desired by the populations of the places where they operate and which I can not describe better than using the term "humanity" [[Applause]] , a virtue that is the innate heritage of our people and that does not abandon us in any context, no matter how difficult it may be. Before I start at the end of my speech, I would like to express my appreciation for the positive work done by the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, for the ability shown to give concreteness to the action of our nation in all international contexts. I would also like to thank, as has been done also by those who preceded me, in my name and all the Movimento 5 Stars, the women and men of the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] , for the commitment, courage and professionalism that demonstrate daily, not only abroad, but also within our borders, as demonstrated widely during the emergency due to the Covid-19. Going back to today's discussion, there are many reasons that suggest, indeed impose, Italy's membership and participation in the 49 scenarios of intervention that are the subject of this debate: reasons for national, European and global security, which push to reconfirm the role of Italy, taking and continuing the actions necessary to maintain it. Global role determined by historical tradition and geographical position, by the manifest characteristics of our country, well summarized recently by our Minister Di Maio: Mediterranean identity, European vocation, transatlantic bond and - let me add - multilateralism. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u77	Before voting, I would like to inform you that a request has been received from Senator De Petris and Senator Bonino for a separate vote. Let us first decide whether the proposal is accepted by the House and, if so, let us specify the individual parts. I would ask the Group leaders and the House whether there is agreement or disagreement with the split vote. Since there are no different indications, the proposal is accepted. It seems to me that Senator Bonino understood that she wanted to separate the first point of Resolution 20. Does it match reality? BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). That was a political criticism I made, but the request for a split vote was referred to point 22. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 20. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 113 (2), second sentence, we call for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Being required by a Parent Company, there is no need for verification of the support. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Other times, compared to the past. Attention on the next point.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u80	Mr Urso (FdI). President, by mistake I abstained from voting, but I would have liked to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u81	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on document XXIV, No 21, with the exception of point 22. We shall then vote on point 22. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 21, with the exception of point 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of item 22 of document XXIV, No 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2), because even if you have had a favourable opinion, you must vote on a resolution. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We call for the vote to be taken simultaneously by means of an electronic president procedure. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senator Garavini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u84	[[Brusio.]] Please allow colleagues who wish to move away to do so in order to make the space to be left compatible for colleagues who wish to speak at the end of the sitting. Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, between the end of 2019 and the beginning of 2020, from these benches - but also from those of the Commissions - I repeatedly took a stand against a civil protection order, specifically No 614 of 2019, which was to regulate both those who benefited from the contribution of autonomous accommodation and the assignors of the Sae; therefore, I am talking about earthquakes. That order was defined by me as a government way of cashing out on the shoulders of the earthquake victims; an incorrect way of cashing out, an electoral tip to support the small contribution, the small tip that was given at the elections in Umbria. We have basically gone from what was "we will not leave you alone" of the first Renzi Government to what has become "arrange yourselves!" of the current policy of the Count Government. So, basically, the earthquake victims were told that the government completely ignored what was needed and put their problems back to them. All of this led the committee with major members of the earthquake zones to take action for an assignment to a lawyer to oppose the unholy order. What was the paradox? That our President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, a university professor, a self-proclaimed people's attorney, with only one measure managed to undermine two of the fundamental principles of our legal system. In essence, it violated what is the principle of legal certainty and the irretroactivity of the rule because, with an intervention affecting recurrent commitments, it adopted a measure with retroactive effect. For this reason, I have heard justifications of all kinds, pathetic, incredible, and proof that they were not credible and that they were just excuses came from what happened now to the House, where the rejection of the earthquake package by the House's Budget Committee demonstrated, he proved, is the smoking gun that shows that the current Government ignores the earthquake victims, acts against them and does not do their interests. [[Applause.]] Not only that. The current Government, which, due to the sleekness of the management of the post-Covid crisis, sees almost daily downward the forecasts of growth of our country, would have had from this a huge net of rescue, a sort of Marshall Plan, reserved for our country and constituted by the reconstruction, which will be affected because of the inability, the bad faith and the too many lies that our President Pinocchio has pronounced too many times also from these benches. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u87	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech concerns some current epidemiological considerations arising from the daily reports on the emergence, including in southern Italy, of sporadic outbreaks of positivity to the coronavirus, found both with serological tests, with molecular tests, with nose-pharyngeal swabs. Some of the last outbreaks in Italy concern different areas and activities of our peninsula, spotted by leopard. In Mondragone, in the casertano, the outbreak has concerned a Bulgarian community, another outbreak has affected part of the employees of a company in the logistic field and, again, in an area of the Mantua has involved the productive activities of slaughter and conservation of meat, with a total of 68 positive employees. Last in order of time is the province of Avellino, in which has been detected the positivity to coronavirus of several citizens returned from foreign countries. Those just mentioned are just a few of the small outbreaks found. With regard to Mondragone, it should be stressed that the successive clashes and clashes between demonstrators and forces of order, on which the appropriate investigations by them are still underway, have at the basis situations of social distress, intolerance and violence, in which a non-secondary role is played by the struggles between the various malavitous organizations, for the control of the territory and for the management of activities not lawful. These cases, as already the other outbreaks discovered randomly in other limited areas of the peninsula, are the logical and predictable consequence of the opening and free movement in our country, at both interregional and international level. On the other hand, there was no alternative. Certainly you could not always stay in lockdown, with the complete closure of many activities and structures, as expected in the acute phase of the pandemic. The country, already in difficulty, would not stand and would have collapsed. The path of progressive and gradual openings has been the right one. Other European countries, as affected as ours, have also followed this strategy. Minister Hope said that the outbreaks will continue and that the virus could not disappear and has not disappeared. The reappearance of these small circumscribed outbreaks was predictable: the important thing is to be ready to recognize them and to limit them in their size and in their capacity for contagion. A very important fact, however, is that these new outbreaks are in the vast majority of cases related to asymptomatic or paucisintomatic subjects and do not accompany forms with important or serious clinical symptoms. [[Call the president back.]] In conclusion, Mr President, this is confirmed by the strongly declining trend of hospital admissions, now almost zero in the Covid-dedicated departments and, consequently, in intensive therapies. This has been achieved through the combined action of the measures taken for personal protection and social distance, but also through, indirectly, the reduction of the virulence and pathogenicity of the new Coronavirus. However, a high level of attention must always be maintained - this is extremely important. The battle is not yet won: if each of us will play his part, not having absolutely fear, phobia or anxiety of possible or safe contagions, continuing to live the daily life of work, social and interpersonal relations [[References by the President),]] implementing at the same time the appropriate cautions and the right behaviours suggested, in a common effort of collective solidarity, the future will smile at us and everything will be fine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u88	Let's hope so, as they say.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u91	MARILOTTI (M5S). Mr President, on this day of commemoration, I would like to recall the figure of Mauro Mellini. The disappearance of Mauro Mellini, a radical deputy for four legislatures, a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, is a cause of mourning for all those who, in the example of free spirits, see a prospect of redemption from the hereditary altars of our country. Whether it was the tasty apories of the sentences of the Sacred Rota during the battle for divorce or the papal justice system, commenting on Giuseppe Gioacchino Belli in the battle for guarantee during the Tortora case or, again, who narrated the mysteries of Montecitorio in his latest delicious book on the Palace, he was always an extraordinary fighter against injustices, as lawyer Patrizio Rovelli called it, on Monday, on the pages of "La Nuova Sardegna." He was elected deputy in 1979, in the district of Sardinia he fought for the innocence of Francesco Baldussu, young shepherd of Dolianova accused of murder by a repentant of 'ndrangheta, Rocco Varacalli, then revealed himself the real author of the crime. From the great to the minute injustices, his action was tireless, inside and outside his historic party, for which he was deputy of the Italian Republic in the VII, VIII, IX and X legislature. Lawyer, politician, columnist and essayist, his struggle for rights and right has not been stopped until the last days of life, as the son, to whom goes the expression of my condolences, along with that of the Movimento 5 Star Group and, I believe, of the entire Senate. In my capacity as President of the Commission for the Library and Historical Archives of the Senate, finally, I declare the full interest of the organ that I chaired to an acquisition of the fund of the deceased: it is an important archival summary that, I am sure, illumines an important part of the political events of recent decades. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u94	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Marilotti very much for reminding me of Mauro Mellini, who will obviously be commemorated in the House, where he was most present. Mauro Mellini was my teacher in many things. I remember replacing him one day, because he had become ill, as a minority speaker for the reform of the Secret Service: he forced me to study the Secret Service all summer because he was sick, but I did it with pleasure. I remember that, when I made the report, I trembled with emotion, because Mauro listened to me, so I was sure that if I had said something wrong, as always would have exploded with his volcanic character. As I said, he was my teacher, he was a master of justice for so many years. I believe that the proposal you have made, Senator Marilotti, will certainly be of great help and I hope that the House will be able to organize a more convenient greeting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u95	The Presidency supports the memory of Mauro Mellini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-236.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, July 8, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.51 a.m.
