ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. As many of my colleagues know, taking into account the work of the Commissions meeting which ended at 5.30 a.m. this morning and as already communicated to the Groups, in order to better organize the work of the Assembly, I suspend the sitting which will resume at 12 noon with the President's communications on the timetable of work and the discussion of the Decree-Law simplifications. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.40 a.m. and resumed at 12.09 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 10 September. It remains confirmed, for this week, the examination until its conclusion of the decree-simplifications law, with sessions until Friday 4 September. Friday's sitting will begin at 9 a.m. At 4 p.m. today's agenda is the Minister for Health's communications on the content of the measures to implement containment measures to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus. For the discussion, three hours were allocated to the Groups, including explanations of vote. Next week's schedule provides, starting on Tuesday 8 September, for discussion of the following topics: report of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on the governance of anti-violence services and the financing of anti-violence centres and shelter houses; ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs; first resolution on the constitutional bill concerning the extension of the Senate electorate, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies; inspection union. Thursday, September 10, at 15, the question time will take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 1 September 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 10 September: [[Wednesday, September 2, h. 9,30 am - Drawing of law n. 1883 - Decree-Law n. 76, Simplifications (expands on September 14, 2020) - Communications of the Minister of Health on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to avoid the spread of the virus COVID-19 (Wednesday, 2, 16) Thursday 3 " h. 9,30 am Friday 4 " h. 9]] [[Tuesday 8 September h 16.30-20 - Doc. XXII- bis, n. 3 - Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on the Governance of Anti-Violence Services and the Financing of Anti-Violence Centres and Refuge Houses - Ratifications of International Agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Draft Constitutional Law No. 1440 and Related - Extension of the electorate for the Senate (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 10, 15) Wednesday 9 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 10 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to Constitutional Act No 1440 and related (Electoral Extension for the Senate) will have to be tabled by 12 noon on Friday 4 September. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1883 (Decree-Law No 76, Simplifications) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' FI-BP 1 h. 3' PD 49' Mixed 43' IV-PSI 38' FdI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on Health Minister's Communications on the content of containment measures to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 38' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FI-BP 27' PD 21' Mixed 19' IV-PSI 16' FdI 20' (already 16') Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u8	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we wish to raise two questions concerning the timetable, the first of which - the main - concerns the fact that we have already heard Mr Hope on 6 August. There are no particular news to be communicated by Minister Hope. We can say that we are happy to listen to him because he is a polite person, but he is not the President of the Council of Ministers. We have asked to listen to the President of the Council of Ministers and since the beginning of August there was the understanding that he would come this week to report not only on the aspects that fall within the competence of the Minister of Health, but, more generally, on the whole issue related to the pandemic, thus including certainly health situations, but also of a strategic and economic nature and general conduct of politics. Among other things, the emergency was largely managed by decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, who should then come and tell us about various issues. It should tell us what use the government intends to make of the huge resources that will come from the European Union and also tell us a clear word about the ESM: whether it will be used or not and, in case it will not be used, why and how it will be made up in the meantime for the need for liquidity which, according to the same Minister of the Economy (then authoritatively), presents problems. The first proposal that we are putting forward is therefore to schedule as soon as possible the communication of the President of the Council of Ministers so that we can talk about the general issue of the pandemic and not just about the issues relating to the powers of the Minister of Health. A second issue concerns the vote of confidence, which is now obvious. The recourse to trust, always criticized by the parties of the current majority (in particular by the Movimento 5 Stars) when it was decided by the others, has instead become customary and obvious practice now that they have to manage it. Let us, however, leave aside the question of trust (i.e. whether it should be put or not) and focus on when to vote on it. We do not think that on Friday the majority and the Government will be able to proceed, with all the problems that will be with the General Accounting of the State and the complexity of the issues that have been addressed for several days and in the night just spent, until 5.30 this morning, with the great commitment of many senators who participated in the meetings of the Commissions gathered, to which we should unanimously thank everyone. All this work will then have to be translated into a large amendment which will naturally have to be boiled by the General Accounting Office of the State. For these reasons, we do not think that Friday will be able to proceed. If there had been normal timing, in fact, it would have been possible to put at least confidence in tomorrow's day (and then vote you don't know when). There are fairly long speaking times, but they certainly do not force us to arrive until Friday. If it were in question the simple transposition of what was approved in the Commission in a major amendment, the Commission would have to be basically ready. Of course, we understand that there are also issues of dynamics with regard to the text and general coordination; but the text should already be in preparation, which is why we do not understand why we should wait until Friday. It is clear, however, that there are concrete problems. Well, we think that on Friday there will be a further postponement, perhaps until Saturday, and we believe that we cannot make such use of the institutions, which are already vile in many other ways. The Senate must work; it had no problem working in August; there is no problem working on Fridays and Saturdays, but we must work and not wait for someone to decide elsewhere what should be decided here instead. [[Applause.]] If an ordinary examination had taken place, it would probably have been possible even to examine the amendment text by amendment, perhaps finally approving some proposals for coordination and thus arriving at the end. The situation, on the other hand, has been handled in a much more complicated way. At this point we propose that the vote of confidence take place not on Friday, but when the government is ready, that is - hopefully - on Monday. In any case, the House's work will obviously be more than compressed, but it is clear that the other branch of Parliament will not be able to intervene with any change, but at least here there will be an orderly conduct of the work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u11	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the League's proposal on the timetable of proceedings provides first of all - as it was established at the Conference of the Leaders before the summer break - for the President of the Count Council to come to this House to report on the content of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. On the contrary, President Conte delegated Minister Hope, failing to reach an agreement made in a previous group leader. This is therefore an institutional unkindness, since Minister D'Incà promised us that. Secondly, we are calling for confidence not to be voted on Friday morning - we are also convinced that the maxi amendment will not be ready for 9.30 a.m. on Friday as scheduled - and that we will go to Monday. Thirdly, since we have insisted on constitutional reform with the extension to eighteen-year-olds of the vote for the election of the Senate of the Republic, we ask that the provision on the abolition of the CNEL, which we hear so much about, should also be scheduled; it is said that everyone would like to abolish it but, even if the measure has been ready for some time, who knows why it is never scheduled on the agenda. This is the proposal that we make as a League, so that it is clear. I would like to point out that we find it absolutely unjustified that, after everything that has come out of the minutes of the Technical and Scientific Committee, with clear and precise responsibilities, the President of the Council - as should be the case in a normal country - does not immediately come to Parliament to answer the questions that the many millions of Italians are asking themselves. [[Applause.]] This is the least you could expect. Moreover, during the summer break the President of the Council announced that he would be the first to allow the publication of everything, having nothing to hide. Well, there are still secreted reports today. They say you have nothing to hide. Well, then desecrate all the minutes, including the annexes, because we cannot think of mocking the Italian people. There is a report that has about 3,400 or 3,500 attachments. We want all the annexes and, therefore, Conte to come to this House to answer why he has not yet descended the acts. Then other news came out: recently the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" reported the fact that on February 12 the government table lay a study of the Bruno Kessler Foundation, which basically predicted, in a good way, everything that would happen and even the number of deaths, from 35,000 to 60,000; it was therefore a very realistic study from this point of view. He should therefore come and explain why the government, having since February 12 this study on the table, has done nothing to help hospitals [[Applause]] , or provide for an immediate prevention plan, immediate closure and sudden measures that would certainly improve the situation. Above all, the President of the Count Council must come and explain - sometimes he stretches his nose when he tells things - because on 12 February he has the study in question on the table and 15 February - so three days after the Italian government sent to China 15 tons of material, between masks, shirts and everything else, and a few days after this material will be found. These are the answers that the President-in-Office of the Council must come and give in Parliament, if he is really a serious person, as he thinks he is or how he is painted. But this isn't over, because I'm telling you all. How long has it been since the nomination of the winners of the call for tenders for the provision of the famous wheelchairs or singles? Are there no examples of transparency in this House? Where are the samples of transparency, after which, after a long time, Commissioner Arcuri says he will only make names if they are not exploited? Excuse me, but it is legitimate at this point to suspect that there is something unclear in that ban. [[Applause]] So, the President-in-Office of the Council, come here! But that is not all: regarding the 5G, come to justify how it is possible that, by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, Tim is authorized to use the sensitive data of 5G, through Chinese technology Huawei, putting national security at risk and at risk, without involving Parliament in any way. This is a coup d'état, gentlemen! [[Applause]] This is what is happening in the country, in the general silence of the Giallorossi majority, of all the media and the strong powers that are currently supporting it. But let us also talk about data in this House: I am talking about real data and not random numbers. We want to know how many asymptomatics, how many swabs are carried out, how many people have been infected in a discotheque, how many people have been infected among immigrants. We want to know how many are in the ICU. We want clear and certain data, because the Italian people want transparency and clarity in the ideas that are being carried out! [[Applause]] And then come to the House - and I am about to conclude - to highlight or show us - as Vice-Minister Sileri is also here - the prevention plan. Where's the prevention plan? We have been asking him since July 7: where is he? [[Applause]] Are there supplies for flu vaccines? Are there any supplies of drugs? Are there any supply of masks? Are there supplies of oxygen tanks? Do we have triage ready, outside of all hospitals, to accommodate any Covid patients without having to enter the emergency room? Did we set up an information campaign? Are we ready, yes or no? No, because there is no plan, otherwise you would have come to the House to bring it to us. But at least come and explain why, after six months, you still do not have a clear plan so that, from school to the revival of the country and the health issue, everything is ready. Then, of course, the time is difficult and we know that it is not easy to govern; but we must at least be ready in time. Come here and explain to us. And also come and explain to us - I really close at this point - the last question, which we consider not so pilgrim, indeed important. In the meantime, we would like to know what happened to plasma therapy, since in some other country they are already mobilizing in this respect. As for the issue of immigration - today there is the meeting between Musumeci, the mayor of Lampedusa and the President of the Count Council - I remember the statements of the latter of some time ago: we cannot tolerate that we enter Italy irregularly; we must be tough and inflexible; we do not enter Italy in that way and, especially at this moment of acute phase, we cannot allow the national community to be exposed to any further dangers out of control. So come to the Count House and explain why, in the face of those statements, we see hundreds of landings of irregular immigrants every day. [[Applause]] and to the escape of immigrants from the reception centres, which are constantly lost traces of; and above all explain to us how it is possible that in a hotspot of 192 places 1,500 immigrants are assembled and crushed. [[Applause]] This is a scandal, as a testimony that the ideology or dogma of the reception at all costs seems to stop at the time of the landing; once they have landed, my lords, the end and the prospect of future life of those immigrants to you can not care less. You don't care about any of this. It's not racist or racist or anything. [[Applause]] Here the important thing is to put your conscience in place, which is also a bit of fashion and a little radical chic; then, once they have landed, that they end up doing so and we are not interested in anything. Shame! Count, come to the courtroom! You have to be ashamed! Come and answer the questions that the Italian people are asking you! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u14	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to remind my colleague, Mr Romeo, that he can find the data he wants on the sites of the regions, where all the numbers relating to intensive care and hospitals are contained. It is very useful to consult them on those sites and then, perhaps, you can compare them with the data that comes to report to us here in this House. I would like to say, on this point, that precisely on 15 August with Mr Martelli we had read, among the many fake news about the young people who ended up in the hospital, a fantastic news that in Palermo, at the Cervello hospital, a person returned from Malta, not being well, is hospitalized, gets worse and ends up in intensive care. It was a fake news of the clamorous ones, no less than those related to Puglia, where the epidemiologist Lopanco had announced that five young people were in severe condition, and we are still looking for them. At the hospital Cotugno in Naples there would be the full intensive care: news denied by the same hospital company. Even the news about the five-year-old girl in Padua was denied - if I remember correctly - by Zaia. Last, but not least, it's the one about the girl, always back from the holidays, ended up in the ICU... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampollo, what is the change to the calendar that you propose? CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, did you speak ten minutes and I cannot speak? Let me finish, please. Let's not talk about the girl's fake news, always serious, ended up in the ICU at Spallanzani, where she wasn't there. I called the Brain Hospital and asked how many patients I am in the ICU: the health department told me "zero." It was a fake news, like the others I just mentioned. My colleague also talked about plasma therapy. Since Deputy Minister Sileri is present, it would be interesting to know whether all patients have been offered - Deputy Minister, I am also talking to you - the treatment of hyperimmune plasma and whether Professor De Donno has been interested in this. At the Gavi Foundation at Bill Gates, I think you gave 180 to 400 million, while Professor De Donno sent the NAS. It is nice then to read in the newspapers that the number of deaths has quadrupled if one day you register a dead person and the next day four. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I conclude with the request to change the calendar. After all this, make your proposal. CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Since there are 11 million deaths a year in the world between tobacco and alcohol, there is an interesting bill. I am referring to the Act of the Senate 998 which I ask to be included in the timetable. The Act of the Senate 998 contains: "Provisions on the fight against organised crime through the legalization of the cultivation, processing and sale of cannabis and its derivatives" and is the initiative of Senator Mantero del MoVimento 5 Stars. I ask everyone to vote on it, of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u16	[[Comments of Senator Ciampolillo]] Sorry, you sit down now and let the others talk. He's already spoken. I don't understand the controversy outside the microphone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Heads of Group which took place yesterday dissolved many important issues, but - as we have already seen from the previous speeches - today's debate is not just a debate on the timetable; it is not only the debate - it is important and I will arrive at it - on what to put on the agenda of next week; it is not only, although important, a debate on when to place the vote of confidence, but it is a political debate at all points of view. Before addressing the political node that concerns today, I would immediately like to say what the proposals for the amendment of the Brothers of Italy regarding the calendar are. And then I will support them with a political reasoning that precisely arises and concerns today. Brothers of Italy calls for President Conte to come to the Chamber for communications - as already foreseen before the summer suspension of Parliament's activities - to respond to the Assembly and the country on the countless questions and questions that, in the meantime, have been added to those left unanswered before the suspension of the work. ( [[Applause).]] I come to the second request. Yesterday at the Conference of Leaders we discussed the vote of confidence. There was a time when the Minister for Relations with Parliament had indicated tomorrow's day as the day on which to request a vote of confidence; then he slipped to Friday. There is one point to make: too many times we have been in this House waiting for measures that did not come, frustrating the time spent in it. It should be added that this is not just a Friday when parliamentarians return home, but an election Friday in seven regions and in 1,000 municipalities that vote. Each of us must not go home, but must reach the campaign territories. And then it would have been much wiser and more appropriate to indicate precisely the terms of submission of the request for the vote of confidence and its celebration, or to postpone directly to Monday the vote of confidence. Our request, like that of our colleagues in the opposition, is therefore to move the vote of confidence indicated for Friday. I come to the last request and then I'll go into the matter. Brothers of Italy for next week has already requested that the bill be also scheduled for the establishment of the day of the victims of judicial errors, which is not a matter of little account and will not escape anyone its neurological importance. And we also ask for the bill to be included in the schedule of next week's work for the destination of 5 per thousand to the Forces of Order and the Fire Departments. [[Applause]] , a measure already adopted last June. I would very much like to go into this point, because it does not escape anyone who is a broad audience and a right. But I want to get to the political question of today. The heated discussions, my colleagues and others, do not represent the mannerism of the oppositions that at all costs want to discuss everything. No, we're claiming a right. It was decided that the President-in-Office of the Council would come to the House to make communications. This was established in this week's calendar, which has been debarked and modified, indicating in the figure of Minister Hope who was designated to hold communications in the Assembly. Basically, President Conte will not come, he will not respect the commitment he has made, we will not listen to him in this House. I mean then, insisting on our request, common to oppositions, that President Conte come to this House, because such communications... [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] De Petris partner...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u18	Go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u19	RAUTI (FdI). The President of the Council's communications are expected not only from this House, but from the whole country. Have you noticed that communication between the Government and the country has been interrupted? [[Applause.]] President Conte knows that millions of families want to know how their children will go to school, when, for how long (closing for polling stations), on which buses, with how many improvised relatives, how many hours will they do, where they will eat, if they go to the gym? Do you realize that behind every pupil there are families, there are parents who have to go back to work, there are babysitters to contract? Do you realize that there are guys who have to start the first cycles of high school and middle school, and children who will go in first grade? We're sending in first grade children who have been home months and haven't been preschooled. Do we want to consider entry in the first grade as a delicate moment? Compared to these common - sense questions, what are the answers? The beginning of the school took the government off guard as if it were a natural disaster. The beginning of the school was a predictable and anticipated fact against which the government proved totally inadequate. You told us that you would find seats for the polling stations; then you told us that you didn't find them; you told us about wooden benches to be divided into two, and then those with wheels arrived. We've put the Army to unload the school benches like it's a natural emergency. [[Applause]] But what emergency? The school began: you had to know and you had to organize. And then schools, transports, surges of contagions, return infections, delays on tampons: in short, these are countless questions and questions that the country asks before the House; questions that await an answer because the relative decisions, the decisions that the government does not take and does not communicate, depend on the everyday lives of the people. We therefore believe that the absence of the President-in-Office of the Council today is a lack of responsibility. We consider his absence to be an escape, not least because it is not a matter of commitments. This absence is contextualized with everything else; it is contextualized with what happened yesterday in the House, with the health dictatorship with which the terms of the emergency are prolonged; it is contextualized with the continuous request of confidence votes: yesterday on the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, Friday on the decree simplifications. In conclusion, Mr President, if we contextualize the lack of answers with the way in which the government proceeds, lacking a rational political method and also of common sense, it remains to be said that the Government and the President hide themselves from Parliament and the country; they do not tell us - for example - something about the famous report, already known in February and of which the Government has not given any weight. Brothers of Italy requested the publication of 100% of the texts in possession of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, covering everything related to the emergency Covid and its transition from the epidemic to the pandemic. We need to make it clear. Italian citizens have the right to know and we must start to answer in this House and not hide. The absence of the President further confirms that, after listening to so many, too many non-truths, we are now on the run with responsibilities, before a country on its knees from an economic point of view for the pandemic and long tried. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u20	I put to the vote the proposal made by the representatives of the Forza Italia, Lega and Fratelli d'Italia Groups who ask to change the calendar replacing the communications of Minister Hope with the communications of the President of the Count Council, who, to them say, is called to respond to many unresolved issues, not only related to the pandemic. They refer to the use of the ESM, to the descretation of the minutes and annexes of the Scientific and Technical Committee, to the issues of immigrants and school. They also call for the final vote on the simplification decree to be moved from Friday to Monday next. It's not approved. Retest has been requested. I order the doors closed, even for the stands. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work, put forward by the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, to include in the next week the debate on the abolition of CNEL. It's not approved. Retest has been requested. I order the doors closed, even for the stands. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, made by Senator Ciampolillo, to include the discussion of the draft law on cannabis presented by Senator Mantero. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, made by the Fratelli d'Italia Group, aimed at putting on the agenda of the next session the discussion of the bill for the destination of 5 per thousand to the Forces of Order and the Fire Departments, as well as the discussion of the bill establishing the Day of the victims of judicial errors. It's not approved. Retest has been requested. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u21	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1883. The rapporteurs, Senators Garruti and Sudan, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Sudan, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u22	Mr President, we are in a special situation to consider an important measure in this House. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u23	A little silence, please. I can't hear anything. Please, Senator Sudan.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u24	SUDANO, rapporteur. If it is already in different circumstances to deal with the conversion of a decree that concerns the most disparate issues, all relevant and above all destined to have a significant impact on the daily life and action of citizens, businesses and public administrations, it would require attention and participation, this becomes even more indispensable in the delicate moment that the country is going through. It is in fact in this spirit that, before I go into considerations of merit, I would like to thank all my colleagues, the representatives of the Government, the Presidency of the Senate, the Presidents of the Commission, Mr Coltorti and Mr Parrini, and all the Offices of the Senate and of the parliamentary groups who, with the usual competence and dedication, assisted us for having carried out, in the middle of the summer, a careful work of examination, verification and improvement of the text that we are preparing to debate in the Chamber today after a detailed debate in the Commissions. [[Brusio]] President. - I cannot speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u25	Senator, continue. Those who are not interested in hearing the report can leave the Chamber so as not to disturb the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u26	SUDANO, rapporteur. The decree-law that we are examining, in fact, while arriving at a stage that - there is no need to say - is still heavily marked by the emergency health and its heavy social and economic repercussions, marks a new phase of the response that the institutions are called to give to the pandemic in legislative terms. In order to mutualize an expression used in another sense and context, phase 2 begins, that is, we are at the transition from the phase of the necessary response to the emergency to that of the restart, that is, at the moment when we are called to offer the country the tools to return to look to the future with optimism. The spirit of simplification is what inspired the Government in formalising the decree-law. [[Brusio]] President, they're yelling behind my ear and I can't talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u27	Please, the report on the simplification decree is taking place. Anyone who is not interested - I repeat - can safely leave the Chamber, leaving the rapporteur the opportunity to intervene. Otherwise, you don't understand anything. I ask for some respect for your colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u28	SUDANO, rapporteur. The spirit of simplification is what inspired the Government in formalising the decree-law and this is also the spirit - I acknowledge this to the colleagues and colleagues of all the groups of majority and opposition - that accompanied the work in the Commissions. The social and economic effects of the pandemic have been said a lot and sometimes even out of proportion, but we cannot deny how in Italy the crisis that followed has highlighted even more the fragility and criticality that afflicts our economic system, the relationship between public administrations and citizens, the competitive capacity of companies and the overall capacity of the country. We are aware that Italy needs a real and strong change of perspective; a shock to revive the economy, free the productive energies from the grip of a cumbersome bureaucracy and unlock those infrastructures that we all need to return to grow, to improve the quality of life and competitiveness of our country. The measure we are about to vote on is in this direction: to break the tangle of useless procedures, vetoes, norms that are now unenforceable or otherwise unreasonable that have represented a constant brake on the country's growth potential and that, at a time like today, risk representing an unacceptable ballast, an obstacle to economic recovery and employment. It is not, nor can it be, of course, a point of arrival, but it certainly represents a strong, meaningful and clear starting point. And it is precisely by looking at the fundamental issues of the measure that we grasp the sense of direction that is imposed on us. It is no coincidence, in fact, that the first part of the text, the first ten articles, is dedicated to the modification and simplification of the procedures related to public investments, intervening on the criticalities that each of us has been able to find a little 'at all levels on the territory. These procedures are already in themselves often unnecessarily complicated and susceptible to interpretative uncertainties, which give rise to a disproportionate and often reckless appeal to jurisdiction. This general rigidity of the system, far from protecting the public interest and legality, is only at the disadvantage of the territory, citizens and businesses. It was therefore intended to act on two fronts: on the one hand, by providing for targeted measures aimed at unblocking the myriad of cantierable works and, in some cases, even initiated and remained unjustified stranded, with special procedures, as provided for in Articles 8 and 9; on the other hand, by introducing a different approach which, subject to strict respect for legality and transparency, makes public administrations responsible, starting with managers, as regards the completion of proceedings. In other words, it aims to look at infrastructure not as problematic dossiers, but as an answer to the unavoidable needs of our country. It is in this sense that we also wanted to address the painful point of disputes in court and of the unfortunately frequent cases of works that remain suspended for unacceptable long times. If administrative justice is to assess the legitimacy of procedures, it is precisely for us, as legislators, that it is up to us to prepare a regulatory apparatus that guarantees the most important of legitimate interests, the general one of citizens to see the infrastructures completed and usable and that the revenue of their taxes does not end up wasted in one of the too many unfinished works scattered in our country. In other words, to suspend the execution of a work started must really become the extreme ratio for very limited times and in cases completely peculiar and must not be - as we often see today - a very common accident of course. The centrality of investing, realising and counting on certain times and transparent procedures is also the private sector. This is the spirit of Article 10, which looks at building activity in a dynamic perspective, in which the needs of conservation of the landscape and of cultural and environmental heritage are not sacrificed at all, but are instead exalted by looking at the enhancement and regeneration of the existing building fabric, as a living body and not as something to be ruined, and then perhaps indulge madly in an unacceptable new consumption of soil. That same dynamic and positive perspective is found throughout the part relating to the simplification of administrative procedures, in which existing institutions and instruments (from silence-acceptance to procedural terms) are opportunely valued and fully brought back to their function of guaranteeing the citizen and the public interest, transparency and efficiency of administrative action. It is also pursuing this perspective that the introduction of rules that finally discourage the irrational proliferation of regulatory burdens, together with a strong option for the digital first, represents a step forward for a different relationship between citizens and businesses, on the one hand, and public administration, on the other, which must be based on the certainty of rules and on the simplicity of procedures, starting also from the same module. For reasons of speed I will not go into the many important forecasts in other subjects, such as: university; economic treatment of members of the National Firefighters' Corps, whose professionalism and self-sacrifice we must once again bring our sincere gratitude; digital citizenship; strengthening and rationalizing information systems. On the other hand, I will just stress the importance of the provisions we have introduced in relation to the erarial and criminal liability of civil servants. Interpretative uncertainty, in fact, far from protecting the impartiality and good performance of administrative action, has been a source of confusion, fear, sometimes unmotivated, general irresponsibility and an attitude aimed at procrastinating, when not omitted, the necessary action. Looking at the opposite side of the coin, the public and businesses must be given more confidence by the administration and, vice versa, it must be ready to monitor and intervene in practice in the event of abuse and distortion, not just obstructing private initiative, and then remaining inert in the event of irregularity. I also believe that the innovations introduced in the company law with regard to both incentive measures and those intended, inter alia, to facilitate capitalization are important. This latter measure is justified by contingency, but it is also in line with the objective of strengthening and modernising our entrepreneurial fabric, mainly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a view to longer-term competitiveness. Allow me then to claim as important the intervention on the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and the possibility to establish Free Customs Zones (ZFD), instrument of real stimulus to the increase, in particular for the island and coastal zones, that goes hand in hand with the innovations introduced in the harbour discipline. Finally, but certainly not for importance, there is the part devoted to the environment, also conceived from an integrated and long-term perspective: from the rationalization of environmental assessment procedures to interventions for the dissemination and consolidation of a sustainable energy system, to the prevention and the contrast of hydrogeological failure. These are different and punctual measures, often aimed also at harmonizing national legislation with the evolution of Community legislation, but united from the same perspective as I said before: not protection based solely and above all on prohibitions, but an active exploitation, so that ever more fully sustainable development is the necessary path to return to growth and the road on which to direct economic recovery after the hard blow of these months. It is in this spirit that, starting to conclude, I hope that this House will examine and approve the draft law of conversion, which has already collected - I repeat - the very useful contribution of the amendments and agendas tabled by colleagues from all the parliamentary groups and which arrives at our enriched and improved examination. It is precisely with regard to some amending proposals that have not been able to be accepted, also because of the legal and non-financial nature of the decree, that my hope is that, together with others, they can be addressed and valued in the measures that we will be examining in the near future. You will forgive me if I end by repeating myself: this measure is an important but not conclusive step; it is the beginning of a path that, while respecting the diversity of roles and positions, but in the common sense of intent, must see us working to the best of our strength to respond to a country that looks to us, asks for more job opportunities and wants to grow. The best energies of our Italy only wait to be freed to finally resume the path of growth and have a simpler state and a better country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u29	I call the rapporteur, Senator Garruti.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u30	Mr President, before we begin, I would like to thank all my colleagues from the 1st and 8th Commission for their work in recent weeks, for listening to and transposing the suggestions they have received from audits, associations, businesses, universities and public administration, in order to give practicality and make the text really innovative. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to discuss in this House, as it is desumable from the title, stems from the need to make this country simpler and faster, deburring the cumbersome administrative machinery, making procedures easier and giving support to the digital revolution of public administration. These objectives, already important considering the bureaucratic situation of our country, take on greater value because they aim to make more effective some measures adopted to promote recovery and give new impetus to the economy, focusing on key sectors such as construction and green economy. Moving on to the examination of the text, the central core of the measure is the bureaucratic simplification and the simplification of administrative procedures, focusing on four cornerstones that correspond to the titles in which the decree-law is divided: simplification in the matter of public contracts and construction; procedural simplifications and responsibilities; simplification measures for support to the diffusion of the digital administration; simplification in the matter of business activities, environment and green economy. This is a simple assumption: without digitalisation there can be no simplification. In order to eliminate the excessive bureaucratic burden on public branches, the Decree-Law provides for new rules to facilitate digital identity and domicile and access to IT services by citizens. Simplification also concerns the preservation of information and documents in digital format, in compliance with privacy protection rules. The recent past and the difficulties created by the Coronavirus emergency, which have not yet been completed, require public administrations to develop suitable systems to guarantee employees the exercise of work at home in safety and efficiency. To this end, the Government wants to introduce measures to simplify and coordinate the activity by strengthening the Department of Digital Transformation. The next step to the enhancement of smart working will be the introduction of a code of technological conduct, with uniform rules valid for all branches of public administration. It is also expected that the code will provide some information on the use by the administration of experts of proven competence in complex processes of digital transformation. Article 33 punishes managers responsible for non-compliance and provides for the obligation for dealers of public services to make available to the administration the data acquired in the provision of the service to users. With Title II, we intervene on the simplification of the administrative measure. Article 12 introduces certain amendments to the General Law on Administrative Procedure, Law No 241 of 1990, in the light of simplification and acceleration of administrative action. There is also an obligation for administrations to measure and make public the actual time taken to complete the proceedings, as well as to update the deadlines for those of their respective competence, with a reduction in their duration. In order to encourage compliance with procedural deadlines, as well as to ensure the full operation of silent-consent mechanisms, the ineffectiveness of certain out-of-date measures is established. A second group of provisions introduces measures to promote and strengthen the use of telematics in the administrative procedure. Central, in this decree, are also the protection of the environment and the projects related to renewable energy. Title IV, in fact, contains provisions for simplification in the field of business activities, environment and green economy. Article 39 introduces some changes to the investment support measure, the so-called New Sabatini. First, it raises the threshold within which the state contribution in account of plants is paid in a single solution; moreover, it simplifies and makes more effective the measure for the enterprises of the Mezzogiorno, previewing a decree of the Ministry of the economic development, in agreement with the Ministry of the economy and the finances, for the definition of specific operating modalities and the delivery of the contribution in a single solution at the conclusion of the investment program, as well as the possibility of use of European funds. Article 41 introduces some new information requirements relating to the Single Project Code, for public administrations financing and implementing investment projects; it also provides that a share of EUR 900,000 per year of the Fund for the financing of technical units supporting the programming, evaluation and monitoring of public investment, including the coordination of CIPE, is allocated to the financing of the activities of the Public Investment Monitoring System. Finally, it states that the management and control systems of development and cohesion plans are based on proportionality and simplification criteria. Article 43 contains a number of provisions to simplify certain administrative procedures in agriculture. It provides for the National Agricultural Information System, the SIAN, to be updated so that agricultural parcels and farm files can be identified through geospatial graphic applications. It makes changes to the legislation on coordinated controls against agricultural enterprises, including food and feed controls. It intervenes in the matter of sanctions in case of suspension and exclusion from the organic production method and introduces the individual communication - instead of the current one, carried out through the publication on the website of the INPS - of the annual lists of agricultural workers and of the changes that took place during the year. Finally, Article 47 lays down provisions aimed at speeding up the implementation of operations financed by the Development and Cohesion Funds and, in general, investments financed by the resources of the European budget, by speeding up administrative procedures relating to activities connected with the use of these resources. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal for a preliminary ruling, we want to highlight, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, that it is appropriate and certainly advisable not to examine or approve the text under consideration, called the simplification decree. We are faced with an omnibus measure, a monster with a thousand heads, which goes far beyond the parameters dictated by the Constitutional Court with reference both to the use and use of the decree of urgency, and to everything that has been included in the decree-law (the colleagues who, even in August, followed the work of the competent Commissions, the 1st and 8th meeting, examining, among other things, tens of articles and hundreds of amendments), and from which emerges an extremely far-reaching approach. There is a fundamental reason why it would be appropriate for the Assembly, by way of a preliminary ruling, not to proceed with the examination and approval of such legislation, namely the fact that a decree-law so full-bodied, that should give a real, real and concrete turn to the bureaucracy of our country (which - we know very well - costs us 57 billion euros, just to understand, to half of the debt that we have done with the last budgetary deviations), not only does it not solve the problem, but it complicates it with implementing decrees and further changes to the decree-laws just converted by Parliament (I think, for example, to the one on relaunching). In short, it does not solve in substance or philosophy the need to free oneself from the bureaucratic grip. There is also another question that should make us think. This is a decree-law simplifications at zero cost and, consequently, does not constitute a political opportunity for the Senate to seriously examine this type of legislation. How can one think, with some ten million lire, of attacking the Moloch of simplification in the country? This says a lot about the fact that, in fact, we are faced with a tritume of regulations. As I said, we have an omnibus and cumbersome legislation which, for example, in the field of the Court of Auditors will create additional problems of an interpretative nature. We have rules that do not have a uniformity of purpose, some of which even increase the rules and further centralize the activities of public administrations. It is also recalled a model Genoa that in reality, in this case, is crippled in substance, because it does not reflect what happened with the decree Genoa. Time-based derogations are also provided for with regard to all procurement rules. This is the third element which, in my view, should lead to a careful assessment of the political opportunity not to go ahead with the examination of this text. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u32	Colleagues, I understand that there is a lot of tiredness, because really the Senate has always worked, and with incredible rhythms, throughout the summer, but let's try to have some more patience and listen to Senator Modena. Please, Senator, go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I was recapturing the points which we believe justify - and of course support - the question referred for a preliminary ruling under Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure. I have mentioned two: we do not have the elimination of the bureaucracy and its costs that I still remember it, they amount to 57 billion, nor a solution with reference to the need to simplify, but a time bubble; it is as if in Italy it is said that it is simplified for about an amount, but not only it is not done, but, rather than simplifying, in reality, the situation is aggravated. We therefore have such an approach as a tritume, as if it were all scattered in the sand, that serious and appropriate reflection is required. What we are considering is a decree-law that should have been divided into more measures, should have taken action in sectors and should have dealt with digitisation. Let us not forget that in our country this is the biggest problem, with reference to both the infrastructural part and certainly the fact that - we all know - in Italy many people do not actually use the Internet. To conclude, the point is that from a Decree-Law simplifications we would have expected a breakthrough, since - I remember - one of the kind has already launched it the previous Government: any citizen, a common person or a company must have the possibility to resolve a practice in an average time from ten minutes to twenty-four hours. This answer from the Decree-Law simplifications does not arrive. We also have problems from an interpretative point of view, so I would like to refer to the question referred once again with reference to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u34	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u37	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, first of all, it is good to remind us all of the reason why we are discussing such a measure. None of us would have liked to be faced with such a situation, but, unfortunately, we have been forced by the conditions dictated by the emergency Covid. This is therefore the context in which we must reason. Faced with the choice that has been made through the various options of the decree-law simplifications (the interventions on public procurement for purchases and the speeding up of procedures in the public administration, compared to the appeals that have crossed us from all the social representatives of our country), we do not hide the astonishment for a question that, if it were to pass, would cause a slowdown of everything that so far not only we have told in every place, but we have been asked, that is, the speeding up and the sburocratization of our country, in support of all the initiatives and activities of the economic recovery. I want to point out that this amazement is not a criticism of those who have legitimately submitted the question for a preliminary ruling, but the result would be to slow down all the choices that the country needs. In the question referred for a preliminary ruling it is argued - of course this is legitimate, although it is not true - that, if the previous measures, i.e. the decrees cure Italy, liquidity and recovery, did not work, it is very likely that even the one under consideration will bring - I quote - more illusions than actual results. It is therefore argued that the decree-law in question would risk the same fate. Meanwhile, it is absolutely not true that the decree-laws and measures cited have not solved any problem: if there had not been, to date millions of workers would not have received the Cassa Integrazione and there would be no guarantees on the liquidity of the enterprises and all the economic interventions in support of the entrepreneurial initiatives in difficulty because of the Covid. Then, since we are examining a preliminary question, we do not understand how a forecast can exceed the reasons for constitutionality, which constitute the real reason for a preliminary ruling: we do not see the link between the illusion that the simplification decree would give Italy and the fact that, for this reason, it would be unconstitutional. The question referred for a preliminary ruling also states that the measures, which would not be implemented immediately, would have a negative impact on the objectives. Honestly, we do not know what we are referring to, given that, as you know, the Decree-Law derogates from 16 July to December 2021 all procedures, in particular for public investment. So we do not understand what this slowdown is and this lack of immediate impact on our country's economic initiatives. In the context of the difficulties we are describing, however, the request contained in the preliminary ruling to avoid the instrument of the decree-law, because a draft law would have been more appropriate and would have allowed a more appropriate parliamentary procedure - of course for the proposers - which would have given everyone the opportunity to intervene. If it is an emergency, however, we do not understand which instrument, other than the decree-law, would have been useful to deal with it: therefore this assessment is wrong in the cloud. There is another belief that makes us think when it is said that the proposed derogation will certainly create litigation. We find it hard to imagine how this can happen: possibly it is the code of exempted contracts that could create litigation, not the derogation of procedures. We have therefore analysed correctly - as we do - the question of the preliminary ruling, which we obviously consider legitimate, but it is clear that, if the analysis is wrong, as I have tried to demonstrate, the conclusion is also true, so the request to approve a preliminary ruling to block everything. In fact, the simplification decree intervenes on the procedures in place with tools, solutions and categories already experienced and known to economic operators, so there is no contradiction with the forecasts already in place in our country. Such measures will certainly give the possibility and guarantee the release of billions and billions of euros, moreover previewed in the maneuvers of budget of more years and even more legislators; these billions of euros will be a manna for the entrepreneurial activities of our Country, reason for which we say that the urgency is in things. If this preliminary ruling were to pass, everything would come back to the balance, as before: we would not speed up anything and we would not give any response to the requests received from all the parties, which were confirmed to us in the many hearings held on the measure, with which - as we will do better later - we laid the foundations for helping the country, in which, as an alternative to the decree of urgency, there would be absolutely nothing. For this reason, by contesting on the substance the reasons for the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which would prevent us from implementing these urgent measures, we are opposed to the proposal put forward. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u38	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u41	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to say to you that there has been an intercourse between the Groups and we would therefore like to make an agreement on the progress of the work in the coming days, which is to suspend this morning's sitting now, in order to allow the work of the various Commissions to be carried out, to continue this afternoon the work of the Assembly only with the communications of Minister Hope and to resume the discussion of the measure under consideration (the conversion of the decree-simplifications law) tomorrow at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u42	It seems to me that this is a good proposal, because in this way the general debate does not become fragmentary and does not go sobbing. I therefore suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.29 a.m. and resumed at 16.05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u43	The next item is: "Communication from the Minister of Health on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to avoid the spread of the Covid-19 virus, pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as amended by Conversion Law No 35 of 2020" I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u44	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for this further opportunity for comparison in a passage which I consider to be particularly sensitive about the epidemiological evolution in our country, in Europe and in the world. I consider, as is well known, every parliamentary passage never ritual or formal but a useful opportunity to gather ideas and suggestions within a dialectic that I hope can always be as profitable as possible, in the knowledge that the debate, even if harsh, makes our democracy stronger and stronger. Compared to my last passage in this House, which - I would like to remind you - took place on 10 August, the European epidemiological framework has deteriorated significantly day after day and also in our country, in Italy, even if in a context far from that of the European countries that face the greatest difficulties, we have seen a gradual increase in the number of infections. I want to start my communication with the data, because as always the data, the numbers, illustrate the scenario in a much simpler and more linear way: the ECDC - the European Centre for Disease Surveillance and Control - has indicated, as it does weekly, the rate of incidence of the virus in 100,000 inhabitants in all European countries in the last two weeks. The European data of the main countries are as follows: Spain 205, France 88, Croatia 87, Romania 84. Our country, Italy, is 23, a figure very similar to that of Germany which, to date, is among the best in the European context. Meanwhile, worldwide, the situation has become even more complicated. We have now reached 25,700,000 cases with 857,000 deaths. These numbers tell us some things we have to try to read and analyze together. First of all they tell us that the lockdown in our country has worked and that the behaviour of Italians and the measures of the national government, like those of regional governments, have managed to bend the curve and still give us a significant advantage over the vast majority of European countries. I think that this is an important result that we must recognize together. It is a result of all, which is also attributed to us at international level. It is not a result of the Government, it is not the result of the Regions. I always like to say that it is a result of all our republican institutions, it is a result of our national community achieved in a very hard test, clearly not yet won, not finished considering the situation still in constant evolution. However, I think that we must recognise this fact and allow me, as always, to recognize it first and foremost to the strength, quality and resilience of our National Health Service and, in particular, to the women and men who work there who go to and will always be our most heartfelt gratitude. [[Applause]] The numbers that have also grown in our country in recent weeks, in the last twenty days, have certainly also been affected by an increase in tests and the number of swabs that have been carried out. I would like to remind you that during the last week we have touched on the figure of 100,000 swabs in one day, even in the light of a significant intensification of work at airports where, compared to arrivals from countries at risk (on which I will return later), rapid antigen tests are also beginning to use. There's a substantial novelty in the numbers we've been analyzing in the last few weeks. The fundamental novelty - the most significant one - is the very low average age of infected people. I believe that this is the real new fact, the most significant and the most remarkable compared to the dramatic season that we have experienced in March and April. Our monitoring system, the one built weekly with the Higher Institute of Health and with the Regions, has reported in the last seven days an average age of the infected of twenty-nine years. I think that this is a very significant fact on which we must of course reflect, also with regard to the measures we are putting in place. I would like to point out that it is not only Italian, but also European and international, which explains, at least partially, the reason why the pressure on health structures, not only in Italy, but also in other countries, is however much, significantly lower than what we have seen in the past. I would like to point out, for example, that even in France and Spain, with much higher numbers, pressure is still sustainable. I was reading data from the last hours that Spain has found more than 8,000 positive cases in the last 24 hours. There has been a lot of discussion, even during the summer weeks, about the issue of young people in our country and about the innovation it entails compared to the previous months. Many times, even publicly, I have asked our children for help: far from us any form of demonization, which would make no sense, but it is true that we must ask, especially our young people, to help us. It is certainly true that the virus among younger generations does less harm than the impact it naturally has on generations later in the years, but it is equally true that young people continue to be a tool for spreading the virus, and this may be dangerous, if the virus were to extend in a particular way to parents and grandparents, who would pay a much higher price. In the light of this picture, to young people, but more generally to all our fellow citizens, I continue to ask with all the strength of which I have the respect of the three fundamental rules that have remained, the three rules that we have already discussed on many other occasions and that we will naturally confirm also in the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, since the last decree adopted is due on 7 September. The three rules are nouned in the correct use of masks, in the distance of at least one meter and in compliance with the basic hygiene rules, starting with hand washing. They are three true pillars on which the entire international scientific community is deeply in agreement: there is no country in the world where the scientific community disagrees with the need to observe these three fundamental rules. My opinion, therefore, is that we must not divide ourselves on this: it is not a matter of political contention, it is not a matter of the right, the left or anything else. These are three essential rules that must accompany us in this important phase of coexistence with the virus. Since 6 August, the last day I have been in this House for information, I have signed two ordinances that I think have been important, although, as is well known, every ordinance always involves in some way a sacrifice, a price that our community decides to pay. The first concerned the extension of compulsory tests to persons who have been in Spain, Greece, Malta and Croatia in the last fourteen days. These tests can be carried out either before the departure from the country of origin or in the arrivals - I think of the ports, the airports and our system has organized in a fast and meaningful way in order to arrange these garrisons in the arrivals - or, again, in the forty-eight hours following at our health companies. I believe that these measures have been important and in this passage in the Chamber here in the Senate - I will be in the House later - I want to make known a proposal that as an Italian Government we are bringing to the attention of all other European countries. The proposal starts from a very simple idea: when we assume a measure of greater control of our borders and arrivals in our country we never perform a hostile act against that country, but it is an act that simply wants to increase the level of security. Our proposal as an Italian Government to the other European countries, which I shall bring in particular on 4 September to the meeting of the Ministers of Health of the European Union, is that a mechanism of reciprocity can be built between the countries. In order to remove this element of hostility from the table, which in some cases is thus interpreted in relations between countries, I believe that the smartest thing is to share a mechanism of reciprocity. We have to live with this virus for a significant time. We are investing on the vaccine (I will say it in the end) and on the treatments with all the energy we have, but it is clear that in front of us we still have at best a few months of coexistence. If we really do not want to strengthen relations between countries, if we do not want to run the risk of arriving at further moments of reduction of mobility between countries, the idea of testing at the main airports of our continent seems to us a right idea, which in a collaborative and inclusive spirit can lead us - we believe - to achieve just results. The second order I signed during these weeks, particularly on 16 August, concerns the suspension of dance activities, not only in discos but also in similar places, and the compulsory use of masks outdoors after 18 hours in places where there is risk of gathering. I want to use this passage in Parliament to make it clear that the national government in its formal measures had never authorized the reopening of discotheques, but as is known from May 16, the Regions had the power not only to apply more restrictive measures (a faculty that was already foreseen in the previous phase and more dramatic of the emergency), but also to put in place less restrictive measures. Within this framework some regions have used these faculties. Allow me once again to reiterate that every order obviously involves a sacrifice and a cost for our country, but I believe that these ordinances have been right and proper and that they allow us to retain that advantage over other countries that I have tried quickly to talk about. It is clear that the horizon of the government and its fundamental objective is at this moment that of the reopening of schools and also all the sacrifices that we are still holding up have that as a fundamental objective. I think that closing schools has been the most difficult choice for all of us, for me in particular, and I want to say that reopening them today is really our top priority on which we are committed all the energies we have. [[Applause]] Let me remind you here that we are talking about a major global theme: there have been 190 countries in the world that have suspended school activities during these months. In these 190 countries the students involved were 1.6 billion: we are therefore talking about numbers that - as you can see - have a planetary scope. I would like to recall only in an instant that on August 31, a few hours ago, a conference was held with 53 countries of the world, which Italy promoted together with WHO and that I had the honour to co-chair, which had as its fundamental objective to try to share some essential rules for the reopening of schools. At the outcome of this meeting with 53 countries in the European area of the WHO, which is a very large area (for example there is also Russia), within this area we decided to build a permanent platform to put into place the best experiences and our knowledge and also to be able to update the guidelines that we are building on the basis of innovative relationships that can come from the scientific world and new knowledge. All schools will reopen in September and will do so safely. Already yesterday it was very nice to see the images of a part of the young people in our country who, for the recovery courses, have started to enter schools again. I would like to remind you here that a few days ago we approved, in a unified conference, with the unanimous support of the Italian Regions, Provinces and Municipalities, the document of the Higher Institute of Health and the Ministry of Health on guidelines for the management of Covid-19 cases and Covid-19 outbreaks; it is a document that will allow us, without any differentiation of a territorial nature, to manage any cases and any outbreaks. I think that having on this an element of full homogeneity in our country is certainly a positive and important fact. On the basis of the guidelines, which - I repeat - we have unanimously approved with all the Regions, Municipalities and Provinces of our country, a training course is starting right in these hours, organized by the Higher Institute of Health, aimed at our student population and, in particular, the staff who work in schools, but also the medical staff, in order to be fully aligned with the objectives we are building. As I have already said in this House at other stages, I believe that the key to the reopening of schools is to rebuild an organic relationship between school and the National Health Service. This report existed at a stage in the history of our country: in 1961 the Italian Parliament approved a rule that concerned so-called school medicine. This network of relationships, this moment of constant contact between school and national health service, then went, little by little, losing; in a particular way, in the 1990s it was lost track of it. Well, I think we need to focus on this: to rebuild an organic and structured relationship, constant and permanent, between the national health service and the school system of our country. [[Applause]] If there will be - as will be quite natural - positive cases in schools, it will be the departments of prevention of territorial health companies that will intervene, with their expertise and knowledge, to put in place a real investigation and to arrange the potential measures (tampons and clearly quarantine) that can be carried out in case of positivity. The basic message that I would like to convey to you is that, compared to cases of positivity, we will not leave our principals and our teachers alone, but there will be a significant presence of the departments of prevention of health companies, because it is right that those who have the competence, history, experience and have already worked constantly with respect to the need to address this virus can make these skills available to schools. The same work that is being done in these hours with serological tests on teachers and all school staff has exactly this meaning: to strengthen the relationship between the world of school and the world of health. Allow me to express my gratitude to all the doctors of general medicine who are helping in this work. [[Applause]] , which is quite unique at European level, and clearly also at local health companies, which have added to an already difficult job a further commitment, which we think is absolutely important. In recent hours, the Scientific and Technical Committee has also discussed a topic of particular importance, which has touched on a widespread concern among families, namely the need for proper use of masks. As I have already said, masks are a fundamental tool that we will have to keep in this phase of coexistence. The Technical and Scientific Committee in the last few hours has defined its recommendations on the correct use of masks at school. I try to say it this way: the masks at school are mandatory; just because they are fundamental, we go with the mask at school, but then we distinguish two moments: the dynamic ones, in which there are concrete risks for our students to be able to have closer contacts, less than a meter away with other students, and the static moments, that is those in which the student is stopped - I think, for example, at a lesson -, listens to the teacher and is at least a meter away from the other students. At the static moment the mask, which is mandatory in other moments, can be lowered. This measure may be reviewed in the case of particularly sensitive epidemiological situations, but it will only be the health authorities that will provide them and assess them correctly. Let me say - I think it is an important fact - that we are the only country in Europe, and I also believe in the world, which will make 11 million masks available as public institutions. [[Applause]] for each of our students and for all school staff. They will be surgical masks distributed free of charge and for this I would like to thank the valuable work of our extraordinary commissioner Arcuri. Again, on 31 August, as is well known, the unified conference, always with a unanimous opinion of the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities of our country, approved the new guidelines on local public transport. Here too we have tried to reconcile two needs that we need to keep together, and it is never easy - I say this with great sincerity - to strike a balance between these needs: to have a health care against a virus that is still there and with which we have to deal, but also the need, which emerged in a particular way from our Municipalities, our Provinces and our Regions, to try to guarantee public transport for all. I believe that important work has been done and that these guidelines can enable us to achieve a positive balance. Again on schools, let me remind you that in these weeks has been defined as an unprecedented direct investment also in terms of economic, human and instrumental resources. The problems of the school are not few and, as is well known, do not come from close up, but from far away: for example, the question of crowding classes does not arise with the Covid. There are problems and issues that concern the school and that come from previous seasons, but we cannot hide what is being done in these hours: 2.9 billion euros made available for the restart of our schools; 97,000 admissions in role that are underway, therefore a significant number of new teachers and new staff that we make available to our students and our families; 2.4 million new benches. I want to try here to give a very clear and very clear message: the reopening of schools is a great priority; I think it is the highest priority today for our country. It is not a priority of the Government, of the Regions or of the Municipalities and of the Provinces, who are also working with us every day elbow to elbow. I believe that the reopening of schools is the highest priority for our entire national community. And then I say: we work together to recover the spirit that accompanied us in the most difficult months, that is, in March and April, when the country joined. I think we need to recover exactly that spirit and that we need a new pact that involves everyone, no one excluded: Government, Regions, Parliament, but also and above all students, teachers, principals, parents, health workers. It is a challenge that only one wins together; there is no need for unnecessary divisions or useless exploitations. Again, allow me, in closing, a quick update on what I think is a decisive game to try to finally close this challenge of Coronavirus management and that is the story that concerns vaccines. Let me say, in the meantime, that on the traditional vaccine, the flu vaccine, we need to build a stronger campaign this year than in other years, precisely because the symptoms are similar and this could cause difficulties for our National Health Service. All regions have strongly strengthened their offer of the influenza vaccine and yesterday a meeting was held, opening a table with Italian pharmacists, exactly on this subject. As for the anti-Covid vaccine, I would like to remind you that Italy is really at the forefront of this battle. The alliance that we established in June with France, Germany and the Netherlands has allowed the European Commission to push for a strong acceleration of policies in relation to the potential to have a safe vaccine as soon as possible. As you know, in the last few hours the contract between the European Commission and AstraZeneca has been finalized and that contract starts exactly from the agreement made by Italy, Germany, France and Holland with this important company. We are talking, clearly, about a vaccine candidate, so we need all the caution of the case, but in this contract it says that the first doses, if the vaccine were to be confirmed as a safe vaccine and able to reach the target for which it was rebuilt, will already be available by the end of 2020, so it is right to continue investing on this, with all the energy we have. I would like to remind you that in this vaccine of AstraZeneca there is a piece of Italy that is fully protagonist, because the viral vector is produced at the IRBM of Pomezia and because the inflammation of this vaccine will take place at the Catalent of Anagni. Italy, therefore, as you can see, is fully protagonist and I believe that this is a fact of particular importance for our country. Let me also remind you that at the end of August, in the last few days, we have also begun the human experimentation of the ReiThera vaccine, which is an all-Italian vaccine and also from this point of view I believe that there are elements to express deep gratitude to our scientists, to our researchers who are not missing their contribution to this important global challenge. [[Applause]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on which I will clearly listen carefully to your speeches, will take into account all the things I have tried to say and will essentially confirm the general arrangement with which we have left ourselves in the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers due on 7 September. We are also working to make some progress and I am pleased to say so in this House. We will work for a few more days, but I am optimistic that in the next decree there may be a solution regarding, for example, the request for reunion of binational couples. On this I had answered a question from Senator Unterberger in this Chamber and I would say that we have probably found a solution and my hope is that with this decree from the President of the Council of Ministers a positive response can come to the legitimate request that comes also from many couples who pay the price of a division for a long time. Let me also say, this time on the advice of the whole Government - I have already said this and I want to confirm this - that very soon all the minutes of the Technical and Scientific Committee will be published. The government's line has been a principle of transparency since the beginning, we are working so that these minutes, in which there is absolutely nothing that cannot be made public, can be published. Finally, allow me to say that I will listen very carefully, as I have always done, to Parliament's address, and I am sure that even in this fall passage that Italy is about to arrive, it will be able to live up to the challenge that we face. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u45	I declare open the discussion on the communications of the Minister of Health. She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u46	Minister, today we are debating what you have been telling us about measures to curb the spread of Covid. However, it is quite clear that these communications lack a very strict approach, which governs the health priorities that should have been addressed for months, such as key measures to be taken during the pandemic emergency in the area of international prophylaxis, prevention and containment of the circulation of the virus, as a precondition of a national system that cannot be further postponed. I will not dwell on what you said about school and transport, because I am certainly out of fashion, but I think it is only necessary to talk about what I know. It is clear that arriving unprepared to the autumn period, with a possible second wave, even imported from other countries, would not be acceptable. We hope that the Government will stand by President Conte's statement that there will never be a complete closure again. However, since the state of emergency has been extended until next 15 October, we would have expected that, for example, all accredited contractors would be obliged to do so before administering the waiting list services to all entitled persons (not only, therefore, for hospitalizations and emergency services), the Covid buffer would be carried out. This should have been one of the few arguments that could justify the continuation of the state of emergency health, affecting fundamental freedoms for the greater good of protecting the health of the community, in the objective of better safeguarding the health of individuals through targeted preventive actions and different and increasing protection regimes for age and fragility, in the government of the risk of a chronic-inflammatory and infectious copandemic at a time, which we are experiencing, where the greater risk concerns the elderly and chronic patients with at least one pre-existing disease. [[Applause]] By providing civil protection, diagnostic tests approved and validated as part of an extraordinary and stringent programme of surveillance and screening activities for high-risk populations through the combination of serological and virological swabs to all network providers. These would have been the communications that we would have expected, not general declarations of principle. Not the perpetuation of a mechanism for the transfer of responsibilities and related economic resources undifferentiated on the territorial level, without traceability of jobs, putting everything back to the good will of those who are to vicariate competences otherwise of the State. We have promoted - in the key of loyal collaboration - in the 12th Commission some proposals that would have greatly limited inconsistencies, and not only in the health and school sector, which are the sectors with the greatest vulnerability, because we did not want and do not want to believe that this Government, despite everything, intentionally wants to cause damage to the country system, but we found no trace either in the decree-law simplifications nor in the decree-law August. Nor in his communications, since we would have expected him to explain to us the long-awaited integrated national emergency plan of control measures, prevention and anti-pandemic preparation. [[Applause]] and a continuous monitoring plan that invests in epidemiological and clinical research, focusing investment and adaptation efforts to the system also on the innovation side for timely recognition and early disruption of the chain of contagion as the most effective response for the protection of the population. A plan that, under the aegis of Civil Protection, ensures due throughout the period of the declared emergency, acquiring and making available what is needed and when needed according to the actual incidence of the risk. Spending without precise validated programs means subverting, even in health care, the already indigestible principle of the left "tax and spend" in first spend and then tax. [[Applause.]] I believe that this involution will not escape in its gravity to the Italians when they are called to the ballot box. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u47	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u48	Mr Minister, once again this sort of fictitious interposition of Hope is consumed, which is not only a hope of hope that we naturally share, but it is precisely the fact that we are faced with your speaking - allow me, Minister - a little demo-Christian, which betrays in part its origins and its culture. She talks about fruitful dialectics, about unnecessary divisions, about the result of everyone: all things a little'reliable. I understand the need to cover up everything that is not right - then perhaps we will tell ourselves in the course of the intervention and the speeches - but there is this sort of fictitious interposition of Hope, which we continue to deal with politely, as you suggest, Minister, but trying to stay on the subject. For example, the fact that you tell us that the result is for everyone, I have to think that you, Minister, must tell so many of your colleagues in the government or even to the secretaries of the parties who support it, starting with Zingaretti, who says instead that the Government has saved Italy compared to not understand well what, since we have taken the virus, we have digested it, we have managed it, we have endured it, and, probably, to some extent, having taken it first, we are struggling to get out of it the same first. It should be remembered, however, that this was thanks to the constant, continuous and heroic commitment of a social category, that of the operators of the National Health Service, and to the measures of banal distancement, such as washing hands, protecting your mouth, staying at home, which - let me say - does not need to contain in a government action, but simply recapitulate in common sense measures. With regard to all this, Minister, we would like to address a period on the subject, which has seen us for over six months strongly committed to combating an epidemic, which has entered our country with too much ease. As we recall in our act of address, in useful and not suspicious times, without having available the minutes - which instead had at the disposal of the Government, as today and in recent days has been summarized by the press, and which even foreshadowed cases of mortality with exorbitant numbers - the opposition, the colleagues of the center-right and ourselves of the Group of the Brothers of Italy wanted, already in March and February, containment measures to protect the borders, to test the presence of the virus in travellers coming from areas at risk and to adopt from the beginning, as we remember in our motion for a resolution, containment measures, such as masks and distancement and hygiene, such as washing hands. So all this, today, more than six months away from what happened, must be addressed - forgive us, Minister and colleagues - with an extra moment of sense of responsibility, recognizing that some mistakes have been made, that the initial protocols of therapy and treatment were completely high, that some paths - I am referring to hyperimmune plasma and hydroxychloroquine - are not well understood in what way and why they are still opposed and have been used late and not sufficiently. In essence, today we should address all these issues outside the buonist dialectic - forgive me, Minister - outside your dialectic and your speaking, and instead we should say, with greater lucidity and firmness and with a game of the parties limited to the minimum, what happened and that could be avoided and what are the mistakes made, that should not be repeated. Instead, in front of this climate for which everything is fine, Madame Marquise, frankly I get the creeps. We do not let ourselves be dragged into this path, which then - forgive me, Minister - does not exist in fact, because the contribution of the parliamentary institutions is zero, because all the measures are approved with the imposition of the question of trust, because the space reserved for the amending and improving action of the measures is zero, because then the things proposed are perhaps addressed in the successive measures, camouflaging them in another way, in order not to give access (I say no reason, but at least access) to proposals of more trivial common sense. So, with regard to all this, a little concern I manifest, even in spite of its reassuring incessance. I don't know if you've been able to examine the development of the virus with reference to the average age of the infected, but there are a thousand other examples that tell us that this virus is changing very radically, starting evidently from the average age of the infected, but not only. I also think of the chains of transmissibility, which we sometimes struggle to interpret. There are unexplainable transmissions and there are absolutely unexplainable transmissions missing. For example, Minister, we know that about seven out of ten positives are without symptoms; which and how many of them are they able to transmit? Do we know? Is there a study, an analysis, an investigation, a bar placed at a level that measures the viral load so that you are able to transmit or are not able to transmit the virus? It is clear that, in addition to the main problem of identifying them, non-symptomatics should be treated from their ability to transmit the virus. If one is not symptomatic, that is, is well, and is not capable of transmitting, then also containment measures should be calibrated in this sense, because it is difficult to force these people to stay at home. There are people who are positive for two, three or four swabs and have nothing; and the family with whom they live, the so-called real relatives, are absolutely all negative. What's going on? Can we know? Will the scientific community tell us in any way, through this infamous and imaginative Technical and Scientific Committee, of which we look forward to reading the abundant minutes, including the annexes? All this, ladies and gentlemen, suggests some indications. Not that we are so optimistic that you are taking these points for good, but it is our duty to represent them, if only for the benefit of the debate in this House. The first indication is that we continue to trace the symptoms even today, when we are six months in abundance. We still go after the symptoms today, knowing that six or seven out of ten are without symptoms. We're still starting with the symptom today. Do we need to look into the investigation to identify non-symptomatics, yes or no? 11 million masks are welcome, but as many swabs, rapid tests, serological investigations are needed. All this must be made available copiously, involving the territorial structures of the National Health Service and all prevention structures. Everyone is ready to do this in-depth investigation and that is what we must do. Secondly, that is enough with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. You have already pointed out, Minister, that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which will expire on 7 September, will be replaced, reconfirmed or updated by another decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. No more decrees from the President of the Council of Ministers. You have used an instrument universally considered illegitimate in a phase of serious emergency; all right, you have done so and you have taken responsibility for it. I do not say it, the constitutionalists say it; there are a long series of constitutionalists who say it, even people who are certainly not of the Brothers of Italy, nor of the center-right. But this was done in an emerging phase, which no one denies was emerging. There's no emergency today. You have summarized the numbers today and said that Italy together with Germany, in the schedule of the countries involved, is at many lengths from Spain and the other countries most involved. Today there is no such emergency and therefore no more decrees from the President of the Council of Ministers. We need normal routes; we restore the hierarchy of sources. And that's enough with the extension of the emergency. There is no emergency or, at least, there is no emergency to justify the same instruments. ( [[The microphone is switched off automatically).]] We must take into account the changes in the virus and analyse the history of what we have done, of what has happened, the consequences of what we have done with reference to the presence of the virus in the national community. You're the Minister of Health and I'm talking to you about health. There is a fictitious interposition that I spoke about at the beginning; if Minister Azzolina had been there, I would have talked about the school for another ten minutes; if President Conte had been there, we would have talked about much more. Minister, health needs system measures. Today we began to analyze the August Decree, whose effects will end at the end of the year. It is not possible to continue to put in place measures which are two or three months long: health care needs system measures even in the light of the emergency that has occurred. These system measures... ( [[The microphone is switched off automatically).]] Minister, without having the trouble and the assault of the emergency that is looming, we begin to deal seriously with what happened with the lucidity that is needed and that is mandatory for what happened and what could likely happen if we did not adopt this type of system measures. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u49	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his important communications today with regard to the new regulations to deal with the Covid emergency. The interlocking has now continued because the last time - you mentioned it before - we met on 10 August. Since then, he has had to deal with other interventions, as he said. With regard to our rate of incidence, of which we have been told, compared to other countries, we must be proud of what has been done. A minimum of pride is necessary. We'll have it. If, in fact, as you rightly said, in other countries there are significant rates of incidence and ours is in the last places, for once the fact that Italy is in the last places makes me proud. This means that, despite so much controversy and criticism and thanks to the goodwill of our citizens, we managed to contain the phenomenon, even if not as we wanted because we thought the virus had gone away. Unfortunately, this is not the case because it still circulates among us, but in completely different ways, as we have actually seen. She said the age has dropped considerably. Indeed, twenty-nine years old is a very low age and this, if I am not happy, makes me think that, since they are very young citizens and - I hope - in good health, they are not like our citizens who unfortunately are no longer there and who had a comorbidity that led to the death of too many people for this emergency. I have to admit that the number of swabs that are being carried out has increased - also thanks to the measures taken - and thus raised the possibility of better tracing and diagnosing positivity where the virus is moving. This is another positive action put in place by the Government. Still making comparisons with other countries, we are not in the same situation because we have achieved further improvements, considering that we have a health system that is somewhat recovering from the important pressure it had in the first months of the year. We must always thank you for what is being done, because in addition to the National Health Service, we now know that, according to all the new measures, health management must also reorganise an entire system that is changing paradigm. As we said before, the paradigm is changing because there is no longer a paradigm centered on the hospital, but there is a paradigm that moves a prevention that is important on the territory. I have to say that Covid has accelerated all the hesitations and backwardness accumulated over the years and over time to speed up innovations. This is true; in fact, we also think about the acceleration in the work to put into practice the smart working, put into practice with such hesitation by public and private administrations. Now we have had to speed up and we are putting into practice things that were previously thought not to have the same effectiveness. On the other hand, we have found effectiveness in these systems as well, and no less so in the innovative systems of telemedicine. This is also a changed paradigm: let's think about telemonitoring, television, electronic recipes and even the use of the application systems of our mobile phones. So, as you can see, there are accelerations that need to be made structural. This is important because - I am thinking of teledidactics - we need to make them structural where necessary. I think that in this case we have made progress, but we must also take inspiration from the things that are to be criticized compared to what was done in the past. It's fine, so everything you're doing. It is also good that you, Minister, have taken over a situation that was worsening further, bearing in mind that the regions have an important point, are very important and important actors in the intercourse with the Ministry of Health. He did well, in my opinion, to issue the two ordinances he spoke about; the one relating to compulsory tests for those who enter and leave our country, having therefore gone abroad, with the list of nations that had considerable problems, such as Spain, in which we saw a much higher incidence rate than ours, and the other relating to the obligation to wear masks after 18 hours. I believe that we have all been on holiday and we have seen that there had been some tranquility in the tourist places in getting rid of the safety devices, which unfortunately led to an increase in infection. You also did well, on the subject of the order you applied, to say that before the Regions were free. I am thinking above all about discos. I would like to make one last very important point. Comparison with other countries with regard to school guidelines is fine. Prioritarily and rightly, I agree that it should reopen, but having a European-level intercourse at least to know what other countries are doing. We have moved in a certain way to protect and guarantee the safety of our families. The other countries have also done so, but we have seen how many of them have had to return to their steps. Therefore, we, in all safety, must ensure, especially in the educational field, that the protocols are applied and that immediate action is taken to try to speed up where there are hiccups in the system identified together with the Regions. [[Applause]] I am talking, for example, about the fact that when a child is recognised as a positive child, parents should be guaranteed that the whole chain of work, that there are no obstacles, should continue to ensure safety and support. In fact, I would never want people, especially fathers and mothers, to feel isolated and lonely. This is very important to me. For everything else, Minister, I think we're on the right side. Let's check, of course, and monitor what we're doing from now on. The challenge of opening up the school is very important and I believe that we can really do it, by checking step by step. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u51	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for being here today for this information. We would like the President-in-Office of the Council to show his own diligence in presenting himself in Parliament, but he obviously does not think it appropriate to do so too many times. I take advantage of your availability and hope that in your reply you will be able to answer our questions many months ago that are increasingly topical, starting with the one presented by Forza Italia on 28 January, just when the pandemic of Covid began in the world and in Italy, apparently, there were still no cases that then happened. At the time, we were wondering if the Ministry had already made any decisions. I am not even referring to the one presented at the beginning of May about the circulars issued by his ministry that blocked for more than a month the autopsies to patients who died for Covid, which seemed very strange because only thanks to the autopsies it was possible to understand the mechanism of this terrible disease. Fortunately, then, in June they were unlocked. We also had a question on serological tests. We all know the flop of serological texts because out of 190,000 people who were expected to be involved in two weeks, although the deadline was then extended to 16 July, they had joined in less than half. We would also have liked to know why, although we have allocated four and a half million euros with tests provided free of charge by companies, the Red Cross has spent more than what had been allocated by the Ministry and additional funds provided by voluntary donations. We knew why it would be a flop: it wasn't possible to spend too many days between an apparently positive serological test and the swab, so people didn't join. On the contrary, I would also like to ask the answer to a question that Forza Italia has tabled today so that serological tests can be carried out on all the scruters and all the presidents of the electoral sections. [[Applause]] I have never had an answer to my question about fragile workers, and in fact the government has forgotten it, because in the provisions that extended the state of emergency until October 15 the norm that allowed workers with a serious disability, cancer patients, transplanters, suffering from rare diseases and therefore immunodepressed, to take advantage of a period of absence from work equivalent to hospitalization. Tips and tips were given to the right and left, but on the fragile workers there was an unforgivable inattention. We hope, Minister, that you will be able to resolve this regrettable situation as soon as possible. Furthermore, no answer was given to my question made months ago about the lack of a national pandemic plan in order to contain possible emerging situations, including the landings of immigrants. The last pandemic plan dates back to 2010 and then nothing. Now, the Italians who have left the lockdown for a few months and are still struggling with prudential restrictions are imposed by the pandemic and the provisions, but also by the responsibility of the Italian people, despite what they say, would like certainties. Let's not talk about school. For the imminent date of September 14, it is not known whether all schools will open and if they will do so in all regions. Minister Azzolina has placed all responsibility on the principals to manage the good performance of the teaching of the institutions. I think everyone expects a few words that they do not deny one day after another and clear guidelines. Having said that, we know how many urgent situations our country and our health system have had to face. Many Italian hospitals, overwhelmed for months by the wave of admissions, have interrupted the benefits provided for patients with other serious diseases. Oncology screenings, essential for early detection of cancers and early intervention, have been discontinued; according to an association survey, more than 36% of patients complained about discontinuation of examinations and follow-up visits. Surgery has also been postponed for months; from the data recorded in 54 university cardiological structures the inpatients for heart attack would have halved, but the mortality by heart attack has tripled. These are also the data of the Italian Society of Cardiology. No longer comforting are the data on the treatment of rare diseases: according to the Higher Institute of Health more than 50 percent of patients had to stop their therapeutic course. According to estimates by the Research Centre in Economics and Management in Health at Cattaneo University, 12.5 million diagnostic tests and 20.4 million analyses have been missed. I am aware that prevention measures require distance between patients, physical separators and sanitation, but the fear is that appropriate measures will not be taken promptly to plan hospital activity and adequately respond to the many Italians who have been waiting for essential health services or even lifesaving for months. It is useless for me to continue with this sad list. We know how the waiting lists are dramatic (they were already there and they are even more so now). We saw in the August Decree that measures have been taken and we hope that they can be effective, because people can no longer wait. I believe that action is needed precisely to avoid catastrophic repercussions. It is necessary to extend the hours of the benefits, to hire more staff, to give training and centrality to the doctors. There is always talk of costs, needs and difficulties in finding resources, but ESM resources would be readily available. Why does the government insist on not using them? It is necessary to focus on territorial medicine: districts, clinics, home care, chronic management, proximity to the weakest, social and health residences. These mistreated funds could serve to modernize all those old equipment, which cost more maintenance than use; all those old mammographers who make the wrong diagnosis to patients with false negatives and then need to be operated urgently for breast cancer. Let us put aside ideologies and try to be practical, without resorting to other systems that would lead to a higher debt in our country. If we want to learn a lesson from this period we must try to leave behind Italy of unfinished hospitals and recruitment in health care as electoral basins of incompetent people. Speaking of hospitals, I expected that in the simplification decree, since there are 6 billion in the state earmarked for health building, something could be done to unlock the cumbersome practices that the Regions must do to take advantage of this fund. The simplification decree would have been ideal. Anyway, I also saw that in the August decree... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] .. in Article 31, Agenas. I am not saying the number of questions I have put on Agenas, because it was a terrible thing to commission an agency that would have been fantastic as a link between the regions and the state. Beyond the fact that I have seen the number of recruitments, so it will come that there will be one manager for every six employees (it seems to me a little too much, but you can see that it will help), above all Minister I ask you: why was Agenas stationed? If it has been a commissioner, what has changed now for which the Commissioner has been removed, i.e. he is no longer a Commissioner, but is he a Director-General? A person of mirrored professionalism (therefore nothing to say), but I only wonder why Agenas was stationed at a time when the country would have absolutely needed the operation of an agency that proved to work. However, we would ask you to give us a kind answer to all these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u53	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot deal with these communications unless we include them in all the documents and measures that this Government is taking. The Italians have now understood that each Government brings the people of its own trust, those that it considers to be the most competent, those that it trusts for professionalism. And so far it's clear. But we wonder why you continue to hire people in the various ministries if you then choose to make use of ad hoc committees. Why do you not use the expertise of the officials present within the Ministries? If you have hired them, clearly there was a need for them; if you continue to hire them, clearly there is still a need. But you, then, continue to use your committees. I also address the Italians, because already in 2018-2019 the Directorate-General for Health Prevention - office 3 of its Ministry had activated a working group to deepen the ability to face events with a large number of victims; that working group produced a plan that you put in a drawer. [[Applause]] It is recent news that Professor Stefano Merler of the Bruno Kessler Foundation produced, again in February, a study on the diffusion scenarios of the Covid-19 in case the virus could not be contained locally, and you put it in a drawer, you secreted it. You have consciously and blamefully chosen, Minister, not to do anything, with all the consequences that unfortunately many Italian families have suffered, except then continue to discharge responsibility on the regions - as you do now - or on the school leaders and on the bodies of second order. [[Applause]] Since 21 February, Minister, almost seven months have passed and you have come here to tell us that you will extend a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 August last. Then there are two cases, Minister: either you don't know how to plan or you don't want to do it. I don't know what's worse, but I know for a fact that all Italians are paying for your ineptitude. Moreover, if this government has found itself unprepared in the face of the epidemic in February, after seven months it should be here with a rag of structural plan to deal with the emergency; it should know, in every respect and in every sector, what to do. On the contrary, you have not told us how long you will extend the measures of the President of the Council of Ministers' decree: fifteen days? Three, four months? How long, Minister, do you want to extend those measures? There is a continuous improvisation on your part on all sectors and it is affecting our economy, our young people and the attractiveness of our country. Dragons told you too: you have to change course. You should have come here today to tell us that the government was ready to face a second wave. Obviously I am overly optimistic, because this would have seemed common sense to me, but nothing. You should have told us what to do and how you plan to do it; You should be here to tell us what the idea of the future is for our country. At one year, at three years, at five years, what, Minister, are the structural reforms you plan to implement for health and in other areas? Moreover, you rightly go to discipline in a certain way all the entrances of the regular people, but the irregular ones? You house them in the Quarantine ships and after what do you do? Give them a sheet of paper, so they go to enlarge the files of the underworld, or do you go to restore the business of the cooperatives? Which one, Minister? [[Applause.]] Do you realize that you closed schools in February and less than ten days from the start you are still completely on the high seas? The Italians clearly see that you are completely unprepared. You are playing with the future of students and the love of parents for their children. Our children have the right to go to school: it is a constitutionally guaranteed right. You have given Minister Azzolina a police station with Commissioner Arcuri and the latter with a directing booth: a huge mess to get to not know what to do yet. Minister, I've run out of time at my disposal. But if you love Italians and this country, go home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u56	Mr President, Minister, illustrious colleagues, starting from the first declaration by the Government which decreed the state of national emergency for pandemics by Covid-19 (it was 30 January 2020), the Italian people reacted to this tsunami with a maturity that we would never have expected. Our doctors have done more than their duty to be called heroes; some have also sacrificed their lives to treat patients affected by this sneaky virus. Italian citizens have accepted with discipline all possible and unimaginable rules and containment measures; significant limitations of fundamental rights such as freedom of movement, study, work and even their own security: I think - for example - even families forced to live during lockdown situations of domestic violence. Yet the Italians, unlike other European peoples, have shown themselves in all this united, compact, mature and responsible, sometimes more than a few political representatives. By accepting all these restrictions, isolation in the home and even strong public debt have reduced the contagions from Covid-19 to very low percentages, among the lowest in the world. There is no doubt, therefore, that the policies implemented in Italy by the Government in order to combat and contain the pandemic have proved to be extremely effective, and for this we thank you, Minister. Elsewhere, however, due to the inability of some rulers, the virus spread uncontrolledly: I think of the United States, Brazil, India where even 80,000 cases occurred in one day, but also of Spain and France. Well, now we cannot frustrate these results; we must return to being united and responsible; protecting ourselves and protecting others is a civic duty. After the first and second phases, the Government has done well to allow the resumption of all the entrepreneurial activities of the economy, of the tourism. Unfortunately the virus did not go on vacation, but came with us, and containment measures were not to be absolutely disregarded, especially by certain regions. The contagions are resumed and you did well, Minister, on August 16 to order the suspension of the activities of the dance in open and closed places, in the discotheques or in other spaces used for it, and to impose the use of the mask in the places at risk assembly from 18 to 6 o'clock in the morning. Unfortunately, however, the exodus of vacationers from the internal regions of the country to the coast has made everyone forget that we are still in a state of health emergency and that the virus still exists, is not defeated, but is well present and is ready to shoot us down again. It is irresponsible and dangerous to minimize its effects, even deny its existence or discourage the use of the mask, as some politicians and entrepreneurs have done and continue to do. In Sardinia, my region, we call them takers, because they come to profit, taking advantage of our natural beauties, but they leave very little to the inhabitants of the island. [[Comments.]] Yeah, the money's taking them away. This year, unscrupulous takers have put the right to enjoyment and their profit before the citizens' right to health. [[Applause]] The result was that of a recovery of the contagions, but the even more serious result that resulted was that of an unprecedented and unmotivated media attack on the Sardinian Region, from Covid free island it has passed in a moment to Dangerous Region according to the media, but so it is not. [[Comments.]] I'd like to finish. I'd like to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u57	Senator Zaffini, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u58	EVANGELIST (M5S). May I speak, Mr. President? I'm having an operation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator La Russa, you're a Vice President. Please, let's get this over with. EVANGELIST (M5S). Can I talk? Link to the Russian, may I speak? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator La Russa, everyone expresses what they think. When his turn comes, he'll say what he wants. You're welcome. EVANGELIST (M5S). From Covid free island you have passed in a moment to Dangerous Region according to the media, but that is not so. There is no case of Sardinia, as Vice Minister Sileri said: there is a recovery of the contagions because of irresponsible vacationers and superficial entrepreneurs and to the detriment of the Sardinians who work and are engaged in the tourism sector and not only in Costa Smeralda, because Sardinia is not the Costa Smeralda. Sardinia is also made of beautiful coasts, unspoilt, and especially of the inner areas. [[Applause]] Some of our political representatives still cannot understand that the Covid danger is not a danger to us outside, as can be an air trumpet, an earthquake, a volcano in eruption, so to stay away from that danger it is enough not to go to the place where there is the calamitous event. The Covid danger lies in each of us: it is we who, without awareness, perhaps asymptomatic positives, not using the mask, not respecting the rule of social distance, we infect others, who in turn return home from fathers, mothers and grandparents Infecting them. [[Applause]] Someone in this chain gets hit more seriously than others and can't make it. So social distancing and masking become fundamental prevention measures that help to contain this chain of contagions. Then, Minister, I hope that the citizens will retain maturity and prudence; that the Government will be able to measure openings and narrowings; that it will be able to restart this country with investments, especially in health, in territorial medicine, which we have almost destroyed and which today we are rediscovering fundamental. We need only more and more urgent coordination, a common strategy with other European countries, an extraordinary Council of all European Health Ministers. If we want to defeat the pandemic, each state can no longer proceed on its own. Closed borders - as Hungary did yesterday in Orban, a country that has had low infections throughout the pandemic, but which has done very few tests - is not a solution, because the effects on the economy of the whole European community would be very serious. Better, then, to focus on prevention and containment measures such as tests, swabs and quarantine, with a clear and reliable plan common to all European states. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u59	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u60	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the information you have given and the illustration of the political and health lines that have been implemented over the last difficult months. After a very difficult start, in which Italy was for a few weeks the world's epicentre of the virus after China, our country was able to deal effectively and far-sightedly with the containment of the Covid, as we were told in his speech earlier. It is sufficient to observe the recent numbers related to the spread of contagions in relation to those of many other European countries (and not only) to assess the adequacy of the solutions put in place by the Government with the indispensable collaboration of scientists. Currently the outbreaks are under control, despite the increase in cases related to summer travel, thanks to the investigative system behind the contact tracing. It is quite clear that the challenge before us, which is based on the need to hold together the right to health with the safeguarding of the economic and social system and the collective interests with the individual ones, passes from our ability to make this system even more effective. Rapid intervention and ability to trace suspicious cases through the reconstruction of contagion contacts are the keys to the ability to contain. It is no coincidence that almost 32% of the buffered diagnosis is due to this activity, as reported in the latest reference of the Higher Institute of Health. 103,000 swabs were made today. In order to increase our resilience we are increasing the number of diagnostic tests and it is important that you, Minister, have just confirmed this will, this strategic direction. In fact, swabs are a tool not only for diagnosis, but also for active surveillance. If it is essential that citizens respect the rules of social distance and use personal protective equipment such as masks and hygiene - to which you referred in your exposure - which are a fundamental tool to prevent infection; on the other hand, the responsibility of individuals is not sufficient without the State's ability to carry out intensified surveillance of transmission in our communities. And this is not only a health issue, but also an economic one because there can be no real recovery without control of the epidemic. In this sense we will avoid the problems that many countries are beginning to face if we can keep social and civic responsibility together. Those who represent political institutions are exercising their ethical and civic duty to take care of health and respect the common essential rules that we have set ourselves at the moment and not to set a bad example by inviting them to disobey minimum safety standards, by undermining the effectiveness of the measures put in place to prevent a recurrence of infection. I am talking about rules to protect the community and, above all, the most fragile people. Here, in fact, it is not a question of defending freedom, but of a deliberate attempt to question the precautionary measures and recommendations with which the scientific world and the institutions are trying to protect public health and prevent a further lockdown, which would definitively bring our country to its knees. Nobody wants to force citizens to lock themselves in. The exact opposite is true: to be free we must be responsible, because it must be clear to everyone that the virus is always here and the only way we have to continue to live our lives is to keep precautions. Who says otherwise is an irresponsible person who does not care about the protection of public health, a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right. In this regard, we cannot ignore our duty of gratitude to the many people who have faced and are still facing the Covid, starting from our extraordinary medical staff to the memory of those people who, because of the disease, have lost their lives or loved ones. We must never minimize the dangers and risks that Italy is still taking today, even if the sick, fortunately, are many less and we are not in emergency. I would also like to acknowledge to the Government, through you, Minister, the commitment with which we have tried to face the reopening of schools, because it must be clear that this is a huge challenge that affects all countries. The school is the most important structure in the country. And let us not forget that in Germany they have closed more than 100 schools with 350 teachers and 6,000 pupils in quarantine. The work done by the Government and the Regions will bear fruit only in a climate of collaboration between health institutions, through a serious educational pact between teachers, families and students, with a focus on children and young people who, due to some pathologies and disabilities, will have to face this moment not without fear, and who must be constantly protected. Two days ago, Minister, at the WHO European Summit, he stressed the importance of making us ready in case of temporary closures, because the stoppage of teaching can have serious effects in terms of education and health, including emotional, on social development and at the risk of being in a violent family environment. The impact is heavy, even more so for children in vulnerable and poor situations, and therefore everyone must continue to have access to learning, even in emergency situations. Similarly, it will be important to continue to ensure - in the event of a recurrence of the virus - services to the most fragile people with disabilities, to the elderly who, more than others, have suffered in lockdown in the early stages. Users have also had an impact on the social front to look at with particular attention [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Whereas most of them have here the only possibility of relation outside the family. In conclusion, Mr President, difficult months await us, but we are facing them with the right political, ethical and social awareness; the same that has led us to be cautious in recent months. The picture may change at any moment, but we now have the tools to deal with change. The country has paid a very high price in terms of human lives, but also social and economic, but the health of the citizens comes first of all the rest, and the virus, fought faster than elsewhere, must continue to be countered. Now it's up to each of us to live the acquired normality in safety, respecting the rules to make...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u61	Please, you really finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u62	IORI (PD). ... as well as the economy that has just broken down does not stop. I'm sure we'll continue to be cautious by keeping in mind the terrible lesson of the past few months. We still need to continue to respect ourselves and others in an incessant work of caring for ourselves and the other, which is the only way to keep our country standing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u64	Dear Minister, we always welcome you in this House for your institutional grace, which is not frequent in the members of the Government and in any case of the majority and politics in general. On the other hand, she has always had a distinctive feature and says the things that we are pleased to hear and those that we do not like to hear, but always maintaining an institutional grace, that is not so widespread; and this, of course, also hinders the relationship between opposition and majority, because with a dialectic that is formally correct we confront much better and much more we can intervene on the topics on the agenda. Since the date of its first ruling on Covid at the end of January 2020, more than seven months have passed, during which the government's regulatory and regulatory activity has been quite overwhelming and I would like to say - using a medical term - sometimes schizophrenic too. In fact, 16 decrees-laws have been issued, with provisions that have been supplemented and amended several times, which provide for about 300 implementing measures; 16 decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers; 6 resolutions of the Council of Ministers; 40 orders of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers; 11 orders of the Extraordinary Commissioner; 17 decrees or communications of the various ministries involved in the pandemic; 72 civil protection measures. This is one of the reasons why President Conte had called for a wider intervention in this House, which was certainly concerned with the current health issues, but which also involved the issues of the economy and economic recovery, where there should be and should be more evident, and also the dramatic data that periodically gives us the INPS on employment. That is why, without taking anything away from you, Minister, we would have liked to have a broader conversation on the current state of our country at this time. As far as you are concerned, Minister, I think I have nothing to say about what you have said: you have made a glimpse of the situation, starting from the international level, from what is being done at world level, to move on to the European level and then determine the steps to be taken in our nation, to avoid a recurrence or a return of the virus; those steps that you have already stated from the outset, namely the social distance and lockdown, which have certainly had a largely positive effect, because the data not only national but also international can now say it with some certainty. The other very important fact you mentioned is that of hygiene, that is, often washing your hands, without saving, as well as on soaps, especially on antiviral disinfectants. I do not think there is really anything to say about this. What worries me, Minister, is what you did not say: you did not talk about the current problems of our health system, which mainly involve the weakest groups, the people who have to go to the hospital to get hospitalized and are also afraid to do so; as well as the people who are subjected to really tiring and tiring triage. And that can be said by a person who has direct experience in this field. It is not good to see people left in the emergency room for four, five or six hours; it is true that they are not red codes, but yellow ones, but they are people who go to the hospital because they need them, and certainly not to take a walk. I expected you to mention all this, to enter hospitals, to the great difficulty of returning to normality, to the great difficulty of reducing waiting lists, Minister. Waiting lists aren't shrinking at all, but they're stretching. And this is due to the fact that while before, to make a visit, it was enough to enter a clinic or a clinic and undergo the visit, today there is also the distance, there is the triage or the so-called pre triage in case of hospitalization, so there is an extra time to devote to the patient; then there is the visit, finished which, it takes time for the sanitization of the environment that has hosted the patient. All these things lead to a delay in carrying out a medical examination or prescription and in complying with the requests of the patients themselves. I would have liked to hear about this: as about the question of reducing waiting times, which are really very long and worrying for the whole health category. Mr Minister, there is also the speech on territorial medicine and the behaviour of the RSA, which have been, in this dramatic period, a source of repeated contagions; we have heard nothing about these situations. Finally, there is the greater cost that everything I have talked about so far entails for health care. Well, in this regard, I hope there will be an opportunity to understand in the near future what instruments you, Minister, intend to put in place with the funds allocated to the hospital network. This is an important resource from a technological point of view, but also for the purposes of building renovation, because many hospitals are in pitiful conditions to say the least. There is a lot of work and there are doctors who really live up to the benefits, as is all the staff who work in hospitals; however, there are structural and technological deficits that need to be remedied. Allow me, Minister, also to speak about the Sardinia case, since other Members have also spoken about it before me. I am sorry that the problems have not been dealt with on the right side. Sardinia has a million and 600,000 inhabitants and has primary and exclusive competence - as you well know - in terms of health care. In this period of pandemic, especially in the summer season, Sardinia had an overload; we are pleased that this happened and we would still have wanted to have many tourists. There has been a presence of 7 million tourists, which has resulted in a considerable overload for the Sardinian health care, to which I hope you want to help, outside the resources normally allocated to that region; for a State-Region agreement, there are compensatory systems different from other regions. But pay attention, because the system also in Sardinia needs a really strong and important intervention. I said that we would like to continue with the tourist activity; I am one of those who thank the tourists, because they come to spend - I always think with pleasure - their holidays in our Region, and I am not among those who reject this system of economic supply of the Region. [[Applause]] It is an important voice in our region, which is worth almost 10% of GDP; much more could be done and we have certainly suffered a crisis. I thank - as you did - all health professionals, all of them regardless of their performance. But I must also thank the operators of the tourist system whose structures, despite the current difficulties, have contributed to the formation of our GDP as far as they are competent. Minister, time is tyrant. I can't say anything more, even if I wanted to talk to you about other things more in general and not just Sardinia. Of course, I thank you for the insight into the current internal health situation and of course we are always looking forward to it. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u65	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government and the majority strongly wanted the state of emergency for Covid to be extended. Did they do this to protect the health of Italians or to extend the special powers of the Government and of President Conte? People's attorney mobilized the entire Army to limit our movements. He has deprived us of fundamental freedoms with his decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, worthy only of an absolute monarch. If these powers were intended for the real protection of health, then why are they allowing landings and the entry of immigrants without the necessary controls? ( [[Applause]] ). Why are they allowed to roam everywhere with the possibility of still spreading the virus? Shame! The President of the Sicilian Region was, in fact, forced to block the income to protect its citizens and the Government's response was the appeal of the order. The daily chronicle tells of reception centers unraveled by newcomers because they want to escape quarantine. They do enormous damage and hurt our agents, who are not allowed to defend themselves properly. You don't even want to equip them with the taser. Every day they suffer injury and infection. All this happens against the Italian people, who suffer from rampant unemployment and often families do not know how to put together lunch with their children's dinner. Since there is no work for the Italians, even the newcomers will not have employment, but the Government does not care about anything and forces us to keep them at all points, including the allowance and anything else. In fact, it makes us slaves to newcomers. Let's not talk about crimes and damage to them. If anyone denounces them, we must also bear the costs of their defenders up to the third degree of judgment. Many quarantine ships have been chartered on a cruise and all this generates prohibitive costs for a country like Italy with a GDP in free fall. ( [[Applause]] ). Given the welcome with which we receive all these immigrants, human flesh traffickers are already organizing themselves with capacious boats to invade us definitively. You're promoting the epidemic with mass immigration. You are criminals and traitors of the Italian people. ( [[Applause. Comments]] ). The Lampedusa hotspot can accommodate only 192 immigrants and every day they are over a thousand. As you can see, the rules of distance apply only to Italians: shame! You have no restraint in allowing cooperatives to get rich on the Italians' shoulders. We feel mortified before the world to be governed by red democrats, all anti-fascist DOCs, who, against the will of the people, want to impose mass immigration. The government wanted an extension of the state of emergency, but still hasn't answered what it's doing to protect the health of Italians. Of course, it does matter to me and to the simple flu vaccine - and we are in September - we do not know anything yet. Your senseless behavior and the extension of the state of emergency have given a further blow to tourism and one last football to the national economy. How are we going to pay the huge costs you force us to bear? Do you think of the health MES to "caprect" Italy definitively and its future? Here we are in a world upside down, where not even Orwell's fervent fantasy had arrived: those who are paid to do the interests of the Italian people do the exact opposite and a Government deliberately betrays its citizens and favours other states. Since the end of January, the emergency for China's viruses has been decreed and a report has now been issued on 12 February, before cases of coronavirus were reported in Italy, with which experts anticipated exactly what would happen, including 35,000 deaths. They knew everything and already in January the director-general of the programming of the Ministry of Health spoke of an emergency plan with different scenarios. Yes, the government knew, but it didn't do anything; at Palazzo Chigi, however, they didn't find themselves unprepared, they got everything... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to conclude because you have already exceeded your time. Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. They have not been found unprepared, they have equipped themselves with everything possible and imaginable, from masks to breathing with oxygen tanks. I am thinking of the many foreign countries that have asked China to account for the pandemic it caused. Here we have the absolute silence, not a word. A Chinese minister visited us again in the past few days. Why this interest and contact with our Government? Maybe because the Chinese flag has five stars, like the five local stars? [[Applause.]] In conclusion, how long do we have to tolerate such a situation? We can't take any more of the behavior against the Italians. Mr Mattarella, please intervene: send this government home. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u69	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, everything can be discussed in this House and, as you say, everyone often has their opinions and we are all listening to what others say in a respectful way. I believe, however, that being given "criminals" is a serious matter and I cannot accept it. ( [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u72	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business only to say that, as a group, we will check, when the official report is published, the type of speech that has been used in the intervention that has just been completed and then, after this verification, we will submit to the Presidency what has been highlighted, for its opinion and, if necessary, take decisions on it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u73	I will take note of that and look carefully, too. In general, I always let everyone speak: even before, when the Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars carried out her own relationship, with personal judgments, that of course can be accepted or not and there were protests, I interrupted them. I will look carefully at the sentences that have been adopted and we will decide accordingly: however, I take note of your protest. He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to thank you for your very timely and comprehensive communications. The last few months have been very difficult for our country, at times dramatic. The circumstances have put us in the face of difficult choices. We had to operate in unreleased scenarios at the beginning of a pandemic that then, as a matter of fact, unfortunately hit the whole world. The Government has been able to make the most appropriate decisions, acting promptly and decisively and protecting health and public interests. This modus operandi has been taken from example from other countries, that after us have been hit, unfortunately, by the pandemic. You, Minister, rightly pointed out the behaviour of the Italians who during the weeks of lockdown were loyal to the rules and in this way allowed to reduce in a short time the curve of contagions, which at some point seemed difficult to stop. It was a success of the country, not of this majority or of this government, as you pointed out. It is a success of the Italians and in particular of the health workers, who have worked tirelessly, lending themselves to massacred shifts and often paying, with their self-denial and their sense of duty, to the shortcomings of a national health system that had been depleted over the last decades. I would like to stress that the impact of the pandemic has been governed by public health. These sacrifices were fundamental and this is so true that it is demonstrated by a study carried out by a group of researchers at Imperial College in London who works for the Medical research council (MRC) for the global analysis of infectious diseases, published in the prestigious and well-known scientific journal ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In Italy the deaths avoided, according to this study, were 630,000. [[Applause]] Surely there will be those who will not believe in such results and then maybe they will look not at a predictive study like this, but what terrible happened in countries that have made a different choice from ours. I quote, for example, the United Kingdom, the United States, Brazil and many others who unfortunately - and I stress this - have numbers of contagions and deaths far superior to ours, both in absolute terms and percentages, despite the fact that the pandemic had reached their countries after ours and therefore had a precedent on which to base to take the most appropriate measures to combat the spread of the contagion. The world numbers of the pandemic you mentioned, Minister, show that there is nothing ideological about this: there is no right or left; there is no one who is brave and defies contagion or who is wimp and protects himself. At stake are only and exclusively the health of billions of people and their right to be protected from contagion, adopting all good practices approved by the international scientific community. Faced with these evidences, the dead, the coffins carried by military trucks, there are still those who claim that it is all a bluff and a set-up of the Government to remain attached to the armchairs and that even this, to this end, brings into Italy infected immigrants, as we have just heard from the colleague who preceded me. Unfortunately, these are not bar talk or social talk, which would be almost inevitable, but they are repeated in institutional venues, without feeling any shame. [[Applause]] This morning, not only a few minutes ago, there were still those who spoke of a health dictatorship in Italy. Other negationists, a few weeks ago, organized a conference in this building, refusing to wear the mask and invoking personal freedom, except then be indirectly redempted, a few hours later, by the President of the Republic who, from the top of his authority, rightly pointed out that no one has the freedom to make other people sick. That is not freedom, but ignorance, menephregism, cynicism and unconsciousness: that, and nothing else. [[Applause]] The negationist party doesn't mention defusing itself, indeed perhaps it gets bigger and among its ranks enters not only those who ignore the danger or underestimate it, perhaps in good faith, out of pure ignorance, but above all it enters - I would say in full title - those who aim to have media notoriety or want to pop up a zero comma more in the electoral polls. Having said that, the actions to be put into practice in the immediate future are known and I move quickly to list them: we must continue on the path of maximum attention, prudence and the protection of public health and we must strengthen all the instruments that allow us to detect the emergence of new outbreaks as soon as possible, so as to be able to limit them immediately. Consequently, it will be necessary to strengthen both the instruments for diagnosis and the structures that can carry out it, even by overcoming regional localisms, which have sometimes generated a plurality of initiatives that have subsequently proved counterproductive. Minister, you have just mentioned the need to adopt reciprocal measures with other countries, for example by testing at airports both for those who enter our country and for Italians who leave the national territory. The aim must be to return to normality as soon as possible and thus allow the recovery of all economic and social activities in total safety, taking into account the evolution of the pandemic at national and international level. The school year will resume, as has already been decided, with the lessons in presence, adopting all the measures to ensure the health of our students, for example with banal rules, but very useful, such as frequent washing of hands, the social distance of one meter and, if this is not physically possible, using the masks. In his communications, Minister, he stressed the need to bring the school closer to the National Health Service, building an organic relationship with local health companies that will not leave schools, students, principals and teachers alone, as he has repeatedly said. To this end, a protocol of intervention was unanimously approved by the Unified Conference and the further hope is that university courses in attendance will also be able to resume as soon as possible. Finally, great attention will have to be paid to public transport and, in particular, to dedicated school transport, the guidelines of which have also recently been approved at the Unified Conference to ensure that our boys and girls enjoy these services in full safety. As you can see, we are not "criminals," but we operate in the exclusive interest of Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u76	You have the right to do so. For what? Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, with regard to my earlier speech, I said the word 'criminal' in the heat: perhaps it was not so right and I would like to apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u77	Thank you for that clarification. [[Comments]] Colleagues, Senator Pizzol has made excuses that I think we need to take note of. I declare closed the debate on the Minister of Health's communications. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other Senators, and No 2 by Senator Pirro and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the Minister for Health, Mr Hope, to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u78	Mr President, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution by a majority and against the motion for a resolution by a minority.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u79	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u82	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I do not know why it is up to me to speak first, but I do so willingly, to say that I listened carefully to the Minister and his kind words. You, Minister, are one of the few people in the government who, if nothing else, expresses their ideas, perhaps very different from mine, politely and - I must say - without hesitation. I have listened, however, also to the contents, not only the external apparatus, and I have noted that it confirms that our hope lies in the three essential rules: masks, distance and personal cleansing; roughly, except for the masks, is what good education, already for some centuries, should teach young people. Then, beyond these rules of good behavior, it expresses us - I apologise if what I say resembles its last name - so many hopes on the possible - I emphasize - reciprocity of controls, on the possibility of getting to a vaccine and on the fact that perhaps now they start training courses. After hopes, he makes us some promises: he tells us that we will not leave the garrisons alone (which are shaking, because not leaving them alone is fine, but we must see that you will give them closeness); that we will give everyone the masks (I have already heard this promise, which, for the truth, did not always work); that in the future, next year, we will improve the relationship between school and health care. Then she tells us, always she - I listened carefully, politely - that our priority today is the reopening of schools. I wonder, Minister, if it came suddenly, like a storm, an earthquake or a flood, or if it has not already been several months that it was known that the reopening of schools would be a problem in September. So, if this is your priority, I feel bad: let alone those that are not! [[Applause]] If your priority leads to the need to get the Armed Forces to intervene - the Armed Forces! - to replace the janitors in delivering the tables (I guess the janitors will send them to check the first reception centers, so that the immigrants don't run away, so that the construction of this government will be complete), I feel bad. For you the school is the priority and today the parents do not know what will happen to their children, as they will eat in the school canteens, if they can go by bus, in how many and whether or not they will be able to carry the masks in the classroom. You have in fact decided, after long reflection, that these should be worn when you enter, while you can take off once you are in the classroom; like what we see happening on television in football matches: the eleven who play against as many are without masks, hug and kiss; those on the bench however must keep them. We come to such inconsistencies that it seems to me that there is a denial of the truth here; here are the true negationists. It is a truth, dear Minister, that we would like to know: we would like to know, first of all, why we cannot have real transparency, about the past and about the present. On the past, why could we not have transparency, as regards that study of 6 February, which indicated the possibility of 60,000 deaths? I turn to Senator Pilgrim or Pilgrims (I don't remember well) who spoke earlier. [[Comments.]] Pilgrim? No, Pilgrims. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u83	Senator La Russa, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u84	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). ... and that he said, with "pilgrims" arguments that there are negationists [[Comments]] Here the truth is denied, namely that on February 6 of this year a study said: be careful, there may be 60,000 deaths. And until February 21, however - just because the first case came - the government did nothing; indeed, it went to do aperitifs to say that there was no problem. So it is too much freedom that this self-denialing Government has decided to give to the Italians at that time, but now, Mr President, because the Minister - whom I thank if he pays me any attention - has promised us that he will make all the minutes public, we would like to know. Today, however, they are not yet. Why? What do you have to hide? Are you giving us the truth or are you denying it? Then we would like transparency on today. I keep reading in all the newspapers the statistics of the disease. Keep in mind that I am not a denier; quite the opposite: to my children I say to be careful, not to go to places too crowded and to use masks. I want to understand well, however: why are the statistics you give us so negationist of the ability to understand? Why not tell us who is really sick and who is infected without being sick? Why don't you tell us the number of those who are infected without being sick, that is, the asymptomatic ones, who may in turn infect, certainly infect or certainly not infect? Why don't you tell us? Because instead of doing random numbers, do not take into account, that today there are certainly only 1,000 hospitalized in Italy and that out of 50 million Italians there are - alas, because they are always more than one, so it is a drama - 107 subjects in intensive care, I stress? Would you like to give us proper information? I keep the mask, then, aware that my risk of going to intensive care is that of 107 Italians out of 50 million; I don't have to terrify Italy by making believe that at any moment millions of people can end up in intensive care. We call for an immediate protocol for school: today we want it and we wanted it yesterday. Let us ask the truth, Minister, about the immigration emergency. You can't be alarmist about everything except a case of a risk of contagion, and not because they're from another continent, but because there control over the disease came after and badly. It is therefore clear that from there comes a risk: there is for foreign countries in general and there even more. What if these subjects run away as soon as they get here? When we talk about naval blockade, oh, God, what are we talking about? The blockage of Italians in homes is possible - it was right, when there was, but it is feared now that it is useless - but that of immigrants outside our territory becomes a blasphemy. How is that possible? Then there is an ideological fact and evidently of convenience in dealing with the topic of contagion. I would like us all to be on the same boat, as he asked, and when there is danger, we would all say, as we first did - look at the newspapers - when you told us that we were racists, because they said that those who came from China had to stay at home; we first, together with you, immediately afterwards, said - and voted - that we needed the utmost attention and that they had to stay at home. Well, but with the same capacity today he asks us to face the reality: you have to do it without having as its aim the convenience that the continuation of the emergency coronavirus facilitates the permanence of the government. This calculation was not done when the risk was serious: do not do it now, when - on the contrary - it is much, but much less and the normal precautions are sufficient. We do not understand, then, Minister, why President Conte did not come: perhaps he is busy dealing with the secret services or running away from reality, we do not know. Maybe he wants to maintain inconsistencies, I think of those that concern the stadiums: you can go to the cinema and theater, but you can not even partially open the football fields. Why? Aren't the football fields on the left? Am I right? I don't know. I shall conclude, Mr President, by thanking you for the extra minute you have given me. We are absolutely convinced that we must really deal with this event together, both when we need maximum severity and now, at a time when it is no longer absolutely in the government's willingness to do everything alone according to its own uses, conveniences and unacceptable priorities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u87	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am somewhat disoriented by the previous speaker, Senator La Russa. September is a month of reopening for work, school and university: families reorganize, to buy backpacks and with reference to school schedules. Now, after the summer break, we have to live with a virus spread all over the world. At least we build common and objective ground for the time we're living in. The virus is there, it is widespread and the Italian families in these hours and these days are discussing how they can organize themselves, how the school will start again and the fact that, for example, they will probably no longer be able to have the help and support of their grandparents, for fear that children and children will be able to infect them. This is what Italian families are experiencing and we must be close to them. The measure on the government's babysitting bonus, for example, goes in this direction: it seeks to support families with respect to this social problem, as is the issue of the extended family, thanks to the grandparents who help with children. We're living this. I am particularly pleased, Minister, that you mentioned the debate we had on 10 August in this House, during which you brought some data. Also on these, which are incontrovertible, we try to build a common ground: it turned out that in Italy the number of contagions was very low. In the last weeks of August, we found ourselves, as he recalled, with a spread of the virus that made necessary his two ordinances of the same period. The first is the one you mentioned, which took action on the swabs to be done to our fellow citizens who had gone to Croatia, Spain, Greece and Malta: this is being done more and more and it has been done every day. He thanked the health care staff several times and also at this stage we must thank the staff who are making the swabs in the ports, airports and drive-ins; if there was someone who had the right to take the holidays during this period was the health care staff, who was heavily taken by a huge job, but many had to stop their holidays to be present at the workplace and carry out swabs and tests to our fellow citizens who have returned from the holidays spent in these countries. I think that this umpteenth experience must make us understand that we can no longer be in a position to not immediately activate effective and immediate swabs on our fellow citizens who travel to countries known to be at risk, because - I repeat - we all know that the virus is present in other European countries. The whole House should be pleased with what you, Minister, have said about the meeting on 4 September with the Health Ministers. I believe it is essential that we reach a European community that does not bother with the reciprocal buffers between countries, which must instead be on the agenda, because the epidemic is fought together. We must also reflect on the rapid swabs, which you, Minister, mentioned in your speech. There are probably high-quality rapid swabs, which many authoritative scientists say work, and this is important to ensure serenity for families in these moments of return from vacation. If someone is infected within a family and someone else is not (e.g. the child is and the father is not), it is therefore very important to continue using rapid swabs to calm down family communities immediately. The second order you mentioned, Minister, concerns discotheques. On the point I would be drastic: we still keep schools and universities closed, we have banned live shows and closed theaters, cinemas and museums, but some regions have derogated from the national legislation that it has remembered, allowing the reopening of the discos. I think that all of Italy should reflect on this point. It had to adopt an order specifying that no derogations are allowed on this point for the regions, except of a more restrictive nature. This is therefore a different principle from that of initial national legislation. I think we need to treasure this bad experience. I am convinced that we must appeal, as you have done several times, to the sense of responsibility of young people, who can continue to have fun, but in safety. I have spoken of young people who must be complicit in the rules and decisions we take, but we must reflect on this point, on which I will finally return. Well, then, the tracking we're making. I have heard, even several times, a public position from the Deputy Minister here, Senator Sileri, on the need to increase the swabs even more than we are doing. We need to get to a widespread and preventive tracking system. I think this is the only weapon we have to isolate and trace the epidemic, especially in view of the start of school and university activity. In this regard, I would like to make a point: why not also the tests for boys and girls? We are doing it to the teachers: I think we should make an extra effort, involving young people as well. Since the average age of those affected by the virus has fallen, young people must also be tested; whether they attend school or attend university. The school community needs serenity and therefore, in my opinion, we need to encourage the use of tests and the measurement of fever. I am aware that the debate on this last point is a bit difficult: I think we should put thermoscanners in schools, to have a single system of fever measurement, because it is difficult to give families the responsibility to measure fever at home. As the Italian Viva-Party Socialist Group, of course, we will be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution No 2, but, as I mentioned earlier, this pandemic must lead us to find common ground - I am really appealing to this House - in order to continue our conflicting activity. In conclusion, I believe that, in the near future, we will have to reflect on two important issues. We are reopening schools, trying to guarantee at the same time two constitutional rights: education and health. In these difficult months we have talked a lot about a necessary balance between individual freedom and the restriction of that freedom. This must lead us to look at two roads: the first, which many colleagues have urged, is a pandemic plan. In this regard, I believe that we must think of a rule, as some European countries have done - I am thinking of Germany - which, in the event of an epidemic, also provides for a safer and more certain rationalization of the relationship between the State and the regions. The second way forward is to strengthen the health system, through the development of territorial and school medicine; the Minister has also reiterated this now. So, Minister, what better contribution than Parliament to engage on these two fronts? As President of the 12th The Commission, I will use all my strength in this direction to leave future generations a secure system to avoid other terrible epidemics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u90	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Minister, we share and appreciate your communications, after all a few days from the previous ones, which you have already done here in the Senate. I want to say at once that I intend to avoid any controversy and I would like to propose a reasoning also to my colleagues in the opposition, on the understanding that all criticism and accusations to the government in political dialectic are legitimate, when they are not instrumental and false. In my opinion, we should at least try to agree on some fundamental points, which do not deny in any way the dialectic between the different positions. The first: lockdown, which has produced and brought with it many problems - I think of the economy, of course - however it has worked, and I believe it is a value for the whole country to recognize, as the Minister has done, the result not of a part, much less of the Government or of the Regions, but of a community. Often in Italy it happens that in the most difficult moments the community can find the ability to be together and to respond even further, and sometimes better, than its ruling classes; in history, this has happened several times. This should enable us, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid certain attitudes. The Government is doing well, Minister, to publish all the minutes: let us clear the field from these discussions. Why should we try to find a second point that could unite us and what is this second point? It is very simple: we are called to live with Covid for a medium to long period. I would not joke about the subject of negationism, because I would like to make it clear that the problem is not related to dialectic in these classrooms. When we see 10,000 people marching in a country like Germany who deny the Covid, when this happens in Germany, a country that we know is capable of keeping the community together, there is a profound problem, which we should not take lightly and which concerns the issue of the relationship between freedom - my freedom - the quality and security of my community and the way in which we are able to synthesize it, regardless of the different political positions. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, it is time we had this debate, without throwing the clava against one another, but looking for a way, that we propose a synthesis. Otherwise we always say the same things. Let us tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen, in these debates we always say the same things: perhaps a few steps forward we should do so. The second topic, Minister, also concerns the Government: after several months, I would feel the need - I say it with total humility - to take a step forward in the synthesis of scientific responses in relation to Covid. I say this not to make criticism and with great respect for science, but at some point a synthesis on the masks, on the dynamic meter and on the static meter, on how we use the swabs and the other tests is desirable. Colleagues, we do not need to blow over insecurity, but we need to give certainties to our fellow citizens. Certainties, certain answers, obviously taking into account the limits that should be explained, that at this point can give science, overcoming the continuous dialectic discussion, in which at some point you lose the thread. Another point: I am a sincere regionalist and autonomousist, but in the dialectic on discotheques it was possible to take a step forward. We have to ask ourselves about this, because it is a problem that needs to be considered. I say this with great sincerity. An account is to take more restrictive measures, a more dynamic measure account: it must always be done on the basis of an epidemiological and scientific analysis that allows it and not on the basis of a chase with one another. In fact, we are a bit "meteoclimatic": depending on the situation, it weighs more a given than another. This is crucial for economic recovery, and I want to say this: I am convinced from the outset. The economic crisis is very heavy and dramatic, but if we want to give certainty to the recovery, we must have certain scientific answers and we must be able to carry out the certainties that exist. So perhaps this is the debate that we in Parliament should have; we could have a dialogue with the Government to take a step forward together, without denying - I have already said so - the problems and limitations of the experience behind us and having the awareness that nobody here was "learned" (if anyone thinks otherwise, I would like him to raise his hand). In the overall budget this country has done better than others, for its many qualities (I don't say it for competition). No one was "learned," but from this experience we must learn to make cultural steps forward too. First of all, we are the representatives of the people who are behind the people; I do not know if I understand. One final point and I have concluded, Mr President. You, Minister, are rightly working on a plan. From this point of view I agree with the opposition colleagues who have proposed it: we need a strategic plan for health, soon (I say), linked to investment, needs and even discussion on the ESM. A punctual plan would change in tone, because we would go to talk about merit and not about abstract or ideological positions. But this plan, Minister, must be courageous and must dissolve the general medical node in relation to the national health system. It is necessary to reorganize the hospital network; perhaps we risk creating too many places of intensive care (I say now, which can sound almost like a blasphemy) and instead we are not building the bridge between the territory and the hospital, between the high competence and the diffusion of such competence in the territory. Perhaps it is time to ask ourselves the question of whether we should bring the RSA back into the national health system. My answer is clearly and clearly yes, but this requires a territorial reorganization. These are the issues on which we can find, ladies and gentlemen, a proactive capacity for Parliament. I propose this idea again: let us make a moment of reflection in the Chamber, organized and structured, based on scientific skills that allow us to make a contribution and to be later on of the common sense, of the speech of the bar, of the tweet. We need to make a qualitative leap. We owe it not only to those who are no longer there, to the dead, but to the future of this country, when we can rest, but they will ask us why and what we have done now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u93	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I thank Mr Hope not hypocritically, because, while he is Minister for Health and on the one hand it would be necessary for him, on more important occasions, it would not be up to him to put his face on it, as they say. Its tone, as everyone has pointed out, was calm and constructive, except when it gave its opinion on the motions for resolutions. On that occasion, Minister, it was frankly a little too synthetic and contemptuous. I understand that on some things the present or presumed majority cannot be recognized, but there are also things of common sense and, sometimes, resolutions are also evaluated by separate parties. Perhaps he could have been a little more polite and, on the other hand, he denied the calmness in expressing the opinion. We had asked for the President-in-Office of the Council - we said this morning in the debate on the timetable - not out of disrespect for him but because, after a very controversial and confusing period of a few weeks - the subject of school was dominant; there is not only the health issue in the strict sense, but there are also the health implications on other aspects, we thought it was the President of the Council who had to report to this House. The problems are, in fact, health, school, tourism, the economy and the use of European funds, some of which can be activated and others of which it has not been understood whether or not you want them. We want those of the ESM if they are without conditions and if they are intended for health. You told us today that you have to wash your hands and keep the mask. We know that and Count took his advice literally because he washed his hands of it, but as Pilate did: he washed his hands. ( [[Applause]] ). We all remember - I am also a believer - and we read the sacred texts in which we talk about Pilate and when he washed his hands. Count also washed his hands and sent Hope. That was perhaps not the indication you gave. However, I turn to even more operational aspects, about which Senator Rizzotti has already mentioned before. We also want to know in the seats what will happen with regard to tests and controls. We want to know whether the asymptomatics in quarantine will be able to vote or not. It will be an important theme: the more swabs you make and the more people you find asymptomatic; what do you do? They will not be decisive, but the right to vote is not assessed quantitatively. Any vote can be important. As for the recent figures of the government, we could make a very long list, starting from the history of the relatives, dusted up for the children of the same class. It has been seriously said that on buses those of the same class could be together; now it has been said that they can be together if the journey lasts fifteen minutes. I am not a doctor and I do not refute the thesis of the Technical and Scientific Committee (CTS) and scientists, but I do not know if a 15-minute journey is less risky than a 20-minute or half-hour journey. Besides, what was the bus driver supposed to do? This aspect seems to me to have been shelved. Should he have made the appeal? He had to say, are you getting on the bus in the same class? Or was he supposed to memorize the students? Perhaps in a small town the driver of the bus could do it, but in Rome, Milan and Naples the bus driver knows what if the boys who get up are morally and technically connected. You said things like that, too. We still don't know who's supposed to measure the fever. Minister, a moment ago there was an official from the University of Tor Vergata who told me that for the current university tests it was said before it was necessary to take the temperature at the time of the tests, and now no more. The tests are taking place in these hours and there are indications and contraindications. There's total chaos. This is a topic that concerns the university, but also the school. If we say that Azzolina is an incapable, we are not sexists because we also said so about Toninelli. If one is incapable, he is incapable regardless of sex and the Minister of Education is not adequate to handle this stage. Unfortunately, even those involved in transport have spoken about this story of the relatives on the bus and I do not know whether the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Education is responsible for what concerns temperature detection in university tests. After all, we are faced with an inadequate government. I saw that Minister Di Maio took undersecretary Di Stefano to Libya. He brought it to explain to him that Libya has Libyans and that the Lebanese are in Lebanon. Maybe that's why Di Stefano went with Di Maio to Libya. ( [[Applause]] ). Then there are two Tripolis, but I will explain this to you again in Di Stefano: there is one in Libya and one in Lebanon. Maybe that's where the confusion came from. We are absolutely shocked at what this Government has done. There is also chaos immigration. They sent the Allegra hospital ship today because the Sea Watch is coming. We do not share - perhaps this is the part of the motion that you did not like - the thought of these people and these great artists - I have read that there is one who has taken the ships - who support the return of the Sea Watch and who encourage the traffic of people from North Africa. They promote the enrichment of traffickers. And we are forced to arrange quarantine with ships, which costs a lot of money. We are in solidarity with the citizens of Lampedusa and with the President of the Musumeci Region [[Applause]] which was only received today by the President-in-Office of the Council. Maybe that's why he didn't come. Let's hope he does some good things and gives answers, even if we doubt they'll be there. So we're filling Sicily with quarantine ships, the Sea Watch, Carola Rackete and many more are coming. We are not dealing with all this and it is a shameful policy of surrender. We gave Tunisia 11 million days ago and the landings continue. In Libya you have rediscovered - look at this - the motorway that Berlusconi wanted to do. Here, if you have to say something useful, you have to repeat the things that the central-right governments have said, that even in North Africa they have done a policy of security and cooperation, not of nullity like yours. You don't even know geography. So we totally disagree. As far as transparency is concerned, we would like to understand one issue. Minister Hope told us today that all the minutes will be announced. I agree with what many have said and what our motion for a resolution also says. Why didn't you report the minutes? First, as a colleague spoke, Senator Papatheu said that it took an appeal to the TAR of the Einaudi Foundation to force you to pull out the cards; an appeal to the TAR! [[Applause]] And then you tell us that you will give news about the issue that has already been mentioned on 12 February; to whom, when and how? The facts are these on the aforementioned report by Merler, of the Kessler Foundation, which was then given to the Technical and Scientific Committee on 12 February 2020. You knew what you did. You have also disregarded the indications of the Regions. The newspapers this summer reported headlines and phrases such as "Blindare Alzano" and "Nembro" but Conte ignored scientists; they talked about mistakes and delays in the week of March, about the yellow cards in Conte. And again: He also lied to Parliament, on 26 March in the Chambers the Premier placed the responsibility for lockdown on the Technical and Scientific Committee. They also said that Count was lied to on the Covid-19 because he said he had not received the opinion of the technicians, but an interview with the fact denied it. There's some for you too, unfortunately, Minister Hope. There is an audio from which it is evident that from the Lombardy Region asked her to set up red areas in Alzano and elsewhere and you did not do it on March 3, March 6, before that confused March 8. The limited red areas, no, but the sudden closure of all Italy, yes. We want transparency to identify political responsibilities. That's why we wanted Count and not the sacrificial victim Hope sent forward. Come to Parliament and tell us why you denied the evidence. He even said and admitted that he had not read the report that he had been given in early March. But how? The President-in-Office of the Council, the whole debate that has taken place? Did you send to China, whose waiters you are now, the masks and what else, when you knew about the Italian emergency? We want you to discuss all of this and you cannot tell us that you will advertise the acts because you were - and I also address my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars - the kings of streaming. You have become the principals of occultism in this matter of health care. [[Applause.]] Keep everything hidden. The princes of occultism, you are the negationists of truth. Where's the streaming? Where is transparency? Where is the principle "one is worth one"? You have concealed documents and evidence to defend the credibility of a government that is absolutely inadequate. That's what Conte did. Then Orano and the other prosecutor can come and say that there were no crimes. I hope that the Bergamo Public Prosecutor will go ahead, because then one who is in the Council Presidency can still pollute the evidence and conceal it and - God forbid - an emergency can also repeat what we think is a crime. There are some predictions in our codes in case they hide and pollute evidence and repeat a crime. So we judge the government's action very badly. As far as negationism is concerned, those who do the negationist processions are morons. I have no difficulty in saying that because they are such. Be careful, however, because Zingaretti also turned on the Navigli in Milan to be the prince of the negationists, even the mayor of Bergamo Gori said "let us work". So we don't share the competition for negationism, but we don't share total alarmism either. We believe that a climate of permanent emergency serves only your political self-defense, the eternality of your power. The current numbers are not to be underestimated, but we are 107 people in intensive care and the infected are almost all asymptomatic. We must not underestimate anything, but the permanent emergency is not good. Let us not, therefore, say that the negationists are right - which we blame because we cannot play with these things - but we would like that transparency which cannot be postponed, Minister. Transparency is needed now and immediately, otherwise it is self-defense for all the mistakes you made on 12 February and early March, with dramatic responsibilities. Perhaps, therefore, you were right to say no to our motion for a resolution then - I correct my judgment - because our motion for a resolution is telling the truth. You are the Government of the denial of truth and transparency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u96	CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, as previous speakers have said, you are the sacrificial victim of this Government today, of a President Conte we have seen in all television broadcasts during the period of lockdown, when it was to deceive the Italians, but now that we arrive at the reckoning, in autumn, it disappears and melts like snow in the sun. [[Applause]] But, Minister, unfortunately, President Conte gave you the job, as usual. In fact, we remember every time that President Conte came to this House: he told us 'we will do' and 'we will say', he always used the future. She also thanks the Italians and the doctors (but who doesn't thank the doctors? We thanked them for months) and he says: we will, we will see, we will stay close. It's a little bit, Minister, on the part of those who should come to the Senate right now to explain how you're going to face autumn. Nothing on the traces, nothing on the distinction between infected and sick, nothing on the distinction between symptomatic and asymptomatic, nothing on the distinction between significant or irrelevant viral load. He comes to tell us, Minister, that we are all in the same boat. But you're in the same boat because I don't want to be on your boat! [[Applause]] We don't want to be on your boat because for months, when we made ourselves available to this Government and the country to help you and cooperate, you said you would do everything yourself. On January 31, Count decrees the state of emergency in absolute secrecy, without letting anyone know. On 7 March, Minister, the Scientific Committee asked for strict measures only in some territories and you - who have kept everything hidden from the country and I would like to highlight it - on 9 March, taking responsibility, decide the total closure of all Italy, the stop to travel, the closure of schools and the blocking of sporting events. You must take responsibility for what you have done and not involve us in your sinking boat. On March 28 we arrive at the cabaret instead. President Conte says: no one will stay behind, we will intervene with extraordinary measures to revive the economy so that Italy can come back stronger than before. Here, Minister, you do the cabaret, because the results are totally different. As far as employment is concerned, the latest figures speak of 500,000 fewer jobs. Youth unemployment is at 31%. But didn't you say no one would be left behind? Istat tells us, on 7 July, that it estimates 38.8 percent of Italian companies at risk of closure, leaving home about 3.6 million employees, and 65.2 percent of the catering companies and hotels. We told Mr Franceschini in this House to be careful because the businesses in the catering and tourism sector were in danger of failing. You laughed at us. Now laugh in the face of Istat. 61 percent of sports, culture and entertainment companies, with about 700,000 employees, are at risk. But didn't you say no one had to stay behind? Didn't you promise the Italians? [[Applause]] Didn't you make direct television every Saturday night to show our hero, President Conte, who would save Italian companies and families? Where's President Conte now? Where is he? Is it hidden? Not to mention the integration fund: thousands of Italians are still waiting for the integration fund. But what do you think Italian families eat with? With Franceschini's holiday bonus? Speaking of vacation bonuses, 2.2 billion thrown away; they were put on the table and only 200 million were used. The advice we give you, since you are the Minister representing the Government at the moment, is first of all to listen to us; Secondly, to listen to the tourism trade associations and, finally, to take those two billions and use them to do something different. [[Applause]] But all this, Minister, happens in a country where first on 31 January and then inexplicably on 29 July are given full powers to the Premier, removing Parliament from the decision-making powers. We are only the ratifyers of what President Conte decides. We simply have to say yes, in your opinion, because every time we say no we are not cooperative, we are bad and we do not love Italy. We love Italy, not those who want full powers to do so do not know what and to get down on their knees before the Chinese government. [[Applause]] All this, Minister, in the face of a situation well below what you are telling us, because the infections are still well below the European average, the infected do not have that viral charge that we all feared and consequently we know very well that the full powers that you are looking for serve only to remove democratic freedoms in our country. [[Applause]] This is the essence of this Government: to remove democratic freedoms from our country, in a State, Minister, where precisely in view of the tourist season everything and more was allowed, without controls, because those who had to control did not check, and then point the finger on the Regions, and then say that the President of the Region of Sardinia was inefficient. I express my personal solidarity with the President of the Region of Sardinia. [[Applause]] When he had put forward proposals on how tourists were to be managed in the Region of Sardinia you all laughed at him and said he was irresponsible; now the fault is of discotheques and we hear from the trombones of politics and from those who do the phenomenon that the fault is of young people because they do not listen, the fault is of young people because they hug, the fault is of young people because they do not wear masks. Since young people don't wear masks, you had to provide for controls and sanctions. You didn't and that's the result. It is not the young people's fault, it is your fault that you make the laws and do not enforce them, Minister. [[Applause]] In these months, as we have told you, we have always been cooperative. We were hoping something would come, because it was the months of calm we expected all the technicians you consulted to tell us how we were going to deal with the fall. We are facing autumn by making ourselves the sign of the cross. About health care. The tourists come back from abroad and from Sardinia, Minister, and there are no shared rules for tampons: queues miles in front of hospitals, days for the results of tampons and we are talking about a few dozen thousand tourists. I imagine if - hopefully not - the same thing happened this winter. You have had time to make, decide and share with the Regions and have done nothing. [[Applause]] On the school I feel like shooting at the Red Cross: an inadequate minister, a minister who has told us everything and the opposite of everything for months. Make a reshuffle of government and replace it. First he talked about distances, then he talked about the benches with the wheels, then the masks yes, the masks no, the masks boh; the times and the alternate days, the schools and the spaces to find, with 140,000 students who still have to be placed; the buffer for the teachers yes, the buffer for the teachers no; transport of the pupils that is an odyssey. Gentlemen, things have to be clear. Families expect clear answers. Families expect to be able to send their children to school as serenely as possible and to have a minister to their standards. This is a minister who is not up to the Italian families. [[Applause]] On immigration, a State in which there is a Premier with full powers and which in Liguria, in Ventimiglia, uses the alpine with the backpack and with the weapons to keep the bathers away, a State in which there is a Premier with full powers must enforce the rules to those who irregularly enter our country (because these are irregular who enter our country), especially if these irregulars think they do what they want. If you go irregularly into our country, you stay where our country puts you, likes you or dislikes you. [[Applause]] Minister, we are very concerned. Information kept hidden from citizens, with methodologies from the former Soviet Union; full powers to a Premier with limitation of the freedoms provided by the Constitution; confusion and lack of programming of the fundamental services provided by the Constitution (education and health). We consider President Conte responsible for all this and we want him to come to this House. There is one last question that I ask you, Minister, although it certainly was not your appointment. Senator Monti has been appointed supercommissary to the World Health Organization. But did you, the Minister, explain to the World Health Organization that Senator Monti, when he was Premier, was the one who cut health care in Italy? [[Applause]] At a time of global crisis, at the World Health Organization we put what has massacred health in our country. We are the banana republic, if we have only Senator Monti at the World Health Organization. [[Applause]] It was enough to take one of those you call heroes and send him to the World Health Organization. Because those are not only heroes in this House: they must also be recognized by giving them what they deserve. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u99	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I would have liked seriously to try to remain today on the subject of the motions for resolutions that we are about to vote to give an address to the Government, after the interesting, rigorous and serious report of Minister Hope, as always, regarding the priorities that would be shared in a normal country: the priorities of being able to make the economy and the sociality of this country work, the places of aggregation, on all the schools, at a time when we are still in the middle of a pandemic, where we are still facing difficult months and in which we must struggle to live together two things, which of course do not live together. In fact, relationship and sociality do not coexist with prevention from a virus that is transmitted exactly through relationship and sociality. We have gone through dramatic months, in which we have had to drastically interrupt the relationship and sociality; we have accepted the challenge, all together, majority and government, of trying to live the relationship and sociality in safety. It is a great challenge, which involves a strengthening of our health systems, as the Minister explained very clearly, a timeliness in intervention, a capacity for reaction, a capacity for presence on the territory. But it also involves an indication of the behavior to be followed by people who do not limit themselves to technical aspects. It is not just a matter of learning, when you govern the ship, how the sails rise; it is also a matter of understanding in which direction to go, how to interpret the stars. This is one of the tasks of politics. A country also behaves according to the ruling class that it has, and the ruling class of this country must assume the responsibility to send messages to its citizens about the behavior to have in the coming months. It would have been useful even in the last few months, because we could have, during the summer, reached zero contagion, if there had not been some bad behavior, for which they are not responsible, as someone says that we say - and we never say this -, for example our boys, but certain magic pieds yes, certain Lucignolo that bring the boys to the countries of the buzzards yes: they are responsible, because this summer was not the time to lower the behaviors of caution. Then there are those responsible. I do live entertainment and have great respect for the cabaret, which is a great art. But I did not expect today to hear in this House forms of cabaret. [[Applause),]] because in these months there is nothing to joke about; there is no jokes, like in middle schools, about the surnames of colleagues in a moment of pandemic [[Applause.]] There are people in this House who have a much longer political history than I have, who have been sitting in these stalls for many decades, who should have developed the seriousness of behaviour, the seriousness of being responsible at a time when people are joking with their lives. Then let's stop making up enemies that aren't there. In the beautiful last movie of the saga about Spider Man there is a gentleman who is not a superhero but who has built bad imaginaries that can be seen thanks to projectors; he defeats them and becomes a superhero. We in this House continue to see someone who wants to be a superhero, defeat enemies who are not there, who are about to invade this country every half minute, when instead there is a real enemy, microscopic, invisible, that we must defeat all together and that requires a leap of quality and responsibility on the part of everyone. Mr Minister, I would like to thank you not only for the extraordinary work you have done over the last few months, but also for your rigour, your behaviour and your attitude. We - and this is not pleasing, because we have known each other for many years and do not need to do these things - need politicians who have this kind of behaviour and attitude, this way of presenting themselves before the citizens. As in all normal countries, we need a right as a left; we need a conservative field as a progressive field. However, we need conservative leaders, who share with us on so many measures and on what are the basic strategies of the economy, but who are not divided when there is a pandemic to be faced together. Even I don't like being in the same boat with some people, but in this boat we are there and then we all have to try to row in the same direction, otherwise we are eaten by crocodiles. We like it or not. When you've been shipwrecked on the deserted island, you're doing well with your colleague. So let's all make an effort. We will certainly not like each other, but at least we try to get to the vaccine without using all available weapons for the election campaign, absolutely disinteresting ourselves in the future of our children, our children and our elderly, who risk their lives in the coming months. I'm not an alarmist, but this is a fact of life. I want to speak to the heart, but I also want to make a warning: look, don't put us in a position in a few months' time to tell you that you are responsible for the people we may be losing again, because there is an emergency or not. There will be no emergency today in the ICU rooms, but there is no such thing as dramatic things that we have had to do in recent months. Do we want to get back to those dramatic things? Do we want to go back to the ICU emergency room or do we want to say that the pandemic until there's a vaccine is an emergency and no one's making it up? [[Applause.]] How do you say someone wants to limit their freedoms? Those who are in the government, if they had the opportunity, would tell their citizens, even by opportunism, to have fun and to do whatever they think, but unfortunately we cannot do this and so we make a qualitative leap in the culture and quality of the ruling class, which addresses the [[The microphone automatically switches off]] the challenge of the coming weeks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u102	PIRRO (M5S). Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, it would appear that suddenly someone realized that the Sars-Cov-2 virus is still in circulation and is frightening. Now everyone fears a second wave, perhaps after having been careless. The data from the last few weeks confirm that the state of emergency had to be extended, as we said in this House just over a month ago. Once again, thanks to the courageous and responsible choices of this Government, praised by the world scientific community, we have kept the contagions at bay, contrary to what happened in other European countries, which after a first wave apparently more modest than in Italy are now facing very high daily numbers of contagions. In these months we have put in place measures and strategies of intervention such as to secure our National Health Service, such as the carrying out of swabs to those returning from high-risk areas, even with the pit stop system and without the queues that someone imagined (Monday I was in a hospital, there was the pit stop service and there was no waiting to perform the buffer). We are increasing more and more the number of swabs we make daily, which are still to be increased in view of the reopening of schools and today we have exceeded the number of 100,000. This allows us to identify all those asymptomatic ones that escaped us in March and April, because contrary to what Senator Zaffini said, we no longer limit ourselves to testing only those who manifest the symptoms, but more accurately trace the chain of contagions and behaviors at risk. This is essential in order to limit the outbreaks and to allow us to look with serenity at the next important meeting, which is the reopening of schools, because this is our absolute priority, as you yourself rightly said, Minister. All our efforts and sacrifices aim at this result. We should put an end to the controversy. We should all have worked together with this objective in a cross-cutting way, but this was not the case, and we took the opportunity to attack Minister Azzolina, to whom all our support and solidarity go. [[Applause),]] not only because he is doing a great job and solving problems caused by decades of bad school administration, but also and above all because of the nasty sexist attacks he receives continuously, especially on the pages of sympathizers of a certain party. Unfortunately it happens all too often that those who feel inferior do not have tools to counter and find no better to say than some offensive phrase, than having not great intellectual tools bases their own way of reasoning on their masculinity and cannot accept to succumb before a young woman prepared and even beautiful. [[Applause]] But let's get this over with: Lucia is better than them, better than those who abandon the boat than she fears it is sinking. Fortunately there are those who do not run away from the problems and bring the boat back to safe and sound port. I would also like to take this opportunity to respond to another silly statement by the former Legist Minister, who did not accept lessons from those who talk about chemtrails. Well, it is we who do not want to be on the same boat as those who sit near and militate in the party of those who in July 2013 presented a question to the European Parliament precisely about the chemical trails and their danger. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u103	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u104	PIRRO (M5S). But let's get back to today. Together we should make our children, our young people responsible for respecting the three simple rules considered fundamental by the world scientific community: to wear the mask, to hygienize hands frequently, to keep distance. Let's stop talking about wheelchairs. It is now evident to all that these are only a minimal part of those ordered and will be used for forms of didactics finally more modern and alternative to the traditional one. On the other hand, let us be careful to ensure that local authorities apply the guidelines on local public transport correctly, so that our young people can get to school in complete safety. These are the fundamental aspects at this time: the health security of the country, do not lower your guard and make every effort so that the ongoing recovery of our social activities, that of the economic fabric is not put at risk, but - indeed - supported, supported and facilitated. These should be the priorities of all and not miserable sterile and shameful polemics from the electoral campaign. Let's keep it together so that the Regions quickly present the plans for the reduction of the waiting lists and for the use of the almost 500 million euros made available with the so-called August decree, since we all agree that it is critical that, because of the lockdown, many citizens have not found an answer to their needs and that now it is necessary to remedy. Let us show that we are responsible and think about the good of our fellow citizens. We are, and will always be, and that is why we strongly support the motion for a majority vote on the Movimento 5 Stars motion for a resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u106	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u107	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, Minister, I have heard with sincere displeasure from the opposition benches that the government should be represented by words such as criminals. I think that the government has acted substantially well during the period of actual emergency and I also share what Minister Hope said about the need to maintain caution. However, I do not think that prudence is incompatible with the ordinary instruments provided by our Constitution, even in an emergency, but normally. I expected the motion for a resolution to include, among the Government's commitments, the lifting of the state of emergency, which was extended to 15 October. I expected this especially by reading in the premises of the motion for a majority resolution the following: The epidemiological data show that the overall picture of the transmission and impact of Covid-19 infection in Italy does not show particular criticalities. In view of this, I would have expected the Government to withdraw the state of emergency, as well as a request to the Executive for maximum transparency and to publicise all acts of the Technical and Scientific Committee. This guilty omission in the motion for a resolution allowed some of the most politically murky and opaque characters in our country's history, such as Senator Gasparri, to give us the Movimento 5 Stars a lesson on transparency. Therefore, given these guilty omissions, I, in line with my vote of 28 July last, will disagree with the Group and will not vote for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u109	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u110	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, with regard to the current exacerbation of coronavirus infection, may I remind you that as early as last February I considered it appropriate to suggest the use of therapeutic properties derived from cannabis extracts in order to combat... [[Comments.]] President, I need to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u111	Senator Ciampolillo, you must make an intervention that concerns the subject of the debate, but I do not think that yours concerns him at all. Please say what your disagreement is.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u112	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). In the meantime, as you know, Minister, more than 35,000 people have lost their lives and, at least initially, we have not even been able to ascertain the exact course of the disease given the lack of autopsies. Only for the intervention of some more courageous doctors, although at a later moment, it was found that widespread inflammations and cytokinic storms induced by the virus are the cause of thrombosis that paralyse the cardiorespiratory apparatus until death. Well, it's already been reported a few months ago that the use of cannabis extracts can actually combat the effects of Covid-19. The Medical College of Georgia has in fact published in the scientific journal "Cannabis and cannabinoid research" the results of a study, concluding that CBD could help those who are seriously ill with Covid. I do not think, Minister, that we can knowingly ignore the existence of viable alternatives to a vaccine that is not yet available, nor do I think that it is acceptable to limit itself to extending the current containment measures without adequately assessing the adoption of a decisive therapy or at least aiding in the fight against the virus. In conclusion, I therefore feel obliged to express my vote against a further inoperative expectation of the production of a possible pharmacological vaccine with an extension of the current containment measures that have been found to be limited to effectiveness, and this is where it is considered that at least in the meantime alternative therapy can be used, without any known side effects. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampolillo, I didn't understand your disagreement. CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). I said it. I shall vote against the motion for a resolution by a majority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You always speak on the same subject and we don't understand why. Please tell us what your disagreement is. CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I have already said this, if you will, I repeat it to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is With regard to the resolutions that we are about to vote on, I have not heard you disagree. CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). I shall vote against the motion for a majority resolution and abstain on the minority motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u113	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Pirro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This led to the conclusion of the Minister of Health's communication.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u116	Colleagues, please, let's avoid the gatherings. If you want, go out in an orderly manner so that Senator Bossi can start his intervention. You're welcome, Senator. BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we usually report tragic and sometimes dramatic reports in the speeches at the end of the sitting, and this time I would like to go against the tide and bring the House to the attention of good news. On the morning of 23 August, moreover, on my birthday - and I thank you for the good wishes that you sent me - in the Po Delta and more precisely in the Municipalities of Taglio di Po and Goro, the staff of the Group of Forest Carabinieri of Rovigo and of the dependent stations - I would like to mention them one by one, but for lack of time I would cite only those who have distinguished themselves in a particular way: Lieutenant Colonel Alessandro De Vido and Marshal Stefano Zanghierato, of the Forest Carabinieri Group of Rovigo, while for the Soarda, the operating section anti-poaching crime to the detriment of the animals, the major Head and the chief brigadier Rossano Tozzi - coordinated by the public ministry Sabrina Duò in the operation called Gold River - have removed a real band of poachers, the famous poachers. According to the complaints notified, this group was one of the most important cartels of river auctions, which spread throughout Italy, a real headquarters of the illicit marketing of the caught catch and then sold to the foreign market, in violation of the current rules and in a way not in accordance with the health regulations, disguised behind the professional activity of some of them. There are 16 people of Romanian nationality and one Hungarian investigated, more than 50 people are involved in the network in administrative, real estate and vehicle aspects were kidnapped and eight of these individuals were finally contested the association for criminals. After this data, I can bring our greatest thanks to the Forces of Order and in this case to the Command forest, environmental and agri-food units of the Carabinieri weapon, to the stations that have collaborated, to the Soarda and to the associations of control over the rivers made by volunteers, that during the period of the emergency health Covid have continued to work and to verify with determination what has emerged once again. I am referring to what I and other colleagues have brought to public attention and to the institutions. We have voted in this branch of Parliament, within three months, in the deliberating session - demonstrating to the whole country that, if you want, things can be done - a law to stop crimes of this kind. Unfortunately, this proposal for a law, Mr President, is still in the Chamber of Deputies, because in the other branch of Parliament they do not have our sensitivity or pretend they do not have it. This bill is scheduled for the Agriculture Committee and only waits to be fired: a willing job, which is done in two weeks' time. To date, the law enforcement forces have reminded us that the laws do not stand still in the drawers: Mr President, I remember that these criminal gangs are most often armed and dangerous and I remember that behind the uniforms of volunteers who control the rivers there might be your children and your husbands. So let's not wait for the dead to escape us, to make this law a reality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u119	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to point out that for several months now, more than a year now, so even before the Coronavirus emergency and the fateful date of 30 January, the Health Care Observatory should have been renewed, which is intended as a link between the Ministry of University and the Ministry of Health, because it has precisely as its specific objective to verify the programming of the number of places to be put in competition in the various graduation courses and that it actually revises its scientific curriculum. In a concrete emerging context such as that experienced so far, in which the attention paid to health professionals (doctors, nurses, radiology technicians, laboratory technicians) is maximum, we have completely forgotten to pay attention due to those who by law are responsible for making decisions, as one of those technical-scientific committees (let's call them so) planned as consultative bodies of their respective ministers, but also as liaison bodies with professional colleges. I therefore ask that the renewal of the Observatory of the health professions find the attention due both to the emergency that we are living, and to the ordinary respect for professionalism of high quality which is entrusted to the health of all of us, in the double diagnostic perspective, as happens for some of these profiles (I think of the technicians of radiology and laboratory), and therapeutic, as happens to others of these professional profiles (physiotherapists, logotherapists, therapists of the neuropsychomotority of the evolutionary age and so on). At this moment, totally attentive and totally phagocited by the emergency Covid, we are forgetting all the rest of the health care, we are forgetting to pay not a tribute, but the due attention to those who in fact devote themselves in all areas of health. I believe it is important that the Minister of the University and the Minister of Health, with coordinated and combined action, give space to the Observatory for the Health Professions. Hundreds of thousands of professionals await him; over 400,000 professionals, between nurses and everyone else, are waiting to see recognized... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u120	It could have ended, Senator Binetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-252.ana.u122	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 3 September, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.38.
