ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.07 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 29 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, he disappeared this morning, on his 80th birthday, a great master of the show: Gigi Proietti. A multifaceted and histrionic character, sophisticated and loved by the wide audience, Gigi Proietti has made art his mission of life. From singing to acting, from dubbing to directing, from theatrical poetry to television, he showed us how it is possible to combine technique and empathy, rigor and charisma. It has made us rediscover what it means to give ourselves to the public with generosity and authority, exuberance and sensitivity, mastery and humility. Genius of the Italian comedy, his extraordinary artistic journey is the story of a piece of our collective history, of the history of an Italianity that thanks to its scratching satire has been able to recognize itself in unforgettable characters, characters that tell the vices and virtues of our common identity, the humanity of noble feelings but also of the small weaknesses of every day. The ability to reveal, to caress with sarcasm and delicacy the most authentic figures of a people, makes Gigi Proietti a great poet of our contemporary. In Rome, to his beloved city, he dedicated his most touching and profound notes, notes that tell an extraordinarily lively romance, made of spontaneity and that irony that translated into an idea of comedy. But to the eternal city Gigi Proietti has also dedicated his commitment to young people and young people, making the capital a laboratory of culture and entertainment and a school for many aspiring actors and directors. Many projects that even during the lockdown saw him engaged in the front line to witness, especially to the children, that the knowledge of classical theatre is a heritage of fundamental importance to build the future of a people. In the memory of this total artist I invite the Assembly to join the pain of family and friends and to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u5	The next item is: Communication from the President of the Council of Ministers on the epidemiological situation and any further measures to address the emergency from Covid-19. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking President Alberti Casellati and all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to anticipate from Wednesday to today the Government's communications on epidemiological developments and possible new measures to be taken. The request I made today to speak in Parliament follows my previous intercourse with the Presidents of the Chambers, to whom I asked on Friday to explore the possibility of finding more suitable tools and ways to ensure a constant intercourse on the management of the pandemic so as to ensure an immediate confrontation when drawing up new government measures. The interlocking with Parliament and the full involvement of all the political forces represented here are fundamental steps and for this reason I felt that I had to put back to the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament every decision on the instruments that could achieve this objective in relation to the decisions that the Government is called to take with the utmost speed in the face of a constant, even very sudden, evolution of the epidemiological framework. Already on Saturday, however, the reasoned reading and interpretation of the weekly monitoring report on the evolution of the pandemic framework curated by the Higher Institute of Health forced us to foreshadow a new body of restrictive measures to be adopted before Wednesday, November 4, the date already set by the respective Conferences of the Leaders for my consultations in Parliament. As a result of these events, at the end of a further conversation with President Alberti Casellati and President Fico, I asked to be able to anticipate my communications so that Parliament can speak before a further measure is taken. I will therefore listen very carefully to the various positions that will emerge from the debate and, of course, I assure you that I am fully prepared to accept the comments and comments contained in the resolutions that will be adopted. I have, moreover, proposed to the leaders of the opposition the possibility of establishing a table of confrontation with the Government useful to assure the opposition forces themselves a full and constant information on the evolution of the pandemic in order to offer the opportunity to convey and represent more directly and punctually requests and proposals. At the moment - it is well known - the proposal has been rejected. If there are any second thoughts, I can now confirm that the Government's proposal remains unchanged and I really want to reassure you that it does not lead to a confusion of roles, nor does it aim at overlapping responsibility. The Government has always been and will always remain well aware of its full responsibility before the country for every decision that it has taken and that it will assume in order to save the nation. Let's go to the epidemiological picture. Both the national and the European ones are particularly critical. The pandemic runs inexorably and impetuously throughout our continent, forcing each country to identify and adopt progressively more restrictive measures, which, in an attempt to respond promptly and proportionally to the growth of the epidemiological curve, follow each other week after week, at short intervals of time. Europe, within a complex and worrying global framework, is certainly at this time one of the areas most affected by the impact of the second wave. According to the accredited European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, in the last two weeks most European countries have increased the number of cases of Covid-19 over 150 per 100,000 inhabitants. In countries such as Spain, France, but also the United Kingdom, the number of cases registered since the beginning of the epidemic has exceeded one million. Even in our country, the epidemiological situation is deteriorating further. As is well known, the pandemic data are collected and analysed every day by monitoring structures spread across the territory; twice a week - now there is also a midweek passage - are analyzed by a directing booth in which are represented the Higher Institute of Health, the Ministry of Health and the Regions, and a report is drawn up that is periodically disseminated. Unfortunately, in recent weeks the rise of the pandemic has led to a significant multiplication of contagions. These, however, are less than half of those recorded in France, about half of those in Spain and just under half of those in the United Kingdom: in these countries the recovery of the epidemic began earlier and runs more. In any case, from the monitoring carried out in the week from 19 to 25 October, it turns out that the number of new cases reported almost doubled compared to the previous week, therefore 100,446 cases compared to 52,960. Yesterday, Sunday, November 1, Italy recorded a total of 378,129 infected, and 94 percent of people infected (357,288) were in home isolation. While at the peak of the first wave only 51.8 percent of the infected were treated at home, today only 5 percent, equal to 18.962, are hospitalized with symptoms, compared to 41.5 percent at the peak of the first wave. Only 0.5 percent, i.e. 1,939 people, are hospitalized in intensive care, compared to 6.7 percent. The infected Italians are therefore of much higher number, even if the severity of the contagions appears different and lower than the first wave. According to data from the Higher Institute of Health, over 65% of people are asymptomatic or paucisintomac. Up to 95 percent, people have mild symptoms. Yesterday, on Sunday 1 November, 1,939 people were hospitalized in intensive care, with the result of occupying 21 percent of the beds already available, out of a total of 9,052 places; it is 18 percent of those that will be obtained with the further distribution of Commissioner Arcuri, for a total of 10,848 places. Patients in intensive care at the moment are little more than the beds activated, thanks to the government's incremental supplies, through the extraordinary commissioner. I remember in fact that, at the beginning of the emergency, Italian hospitals had 5,179 beds in intensive care. In recent months the government has distributed 3,370 fans and the beds activated or activated to date are 9.052, for an increase of 75 percent. Through Commissioner Arcuri, we can make available another 1,789 fans. We can distribute them already in the next few days depending on the course of the contagion curve in order to bring the beds into intensive care to a total of 10.841, which would represent an increase of 109 percent compared to the beginning of the emergency. It should be noted that the increase in contagions is also the result of an increased screening capacity: in the last days are done on average 200,000 molecular swabs a day - as you have not missed, we also touched tips of 215,000 swabs - when in March, instead, 25,000 were administered, about eight times less. In Italy, little less than 16 million swabs have been carried out to date and just under 10 million citizens have been tested. Of these swabs, as many as 12.7 million (equal to 80%) were distributed free of charge by the Government to the Regions. These data are important, also because they make us understand that there is a significant difference of this new wave from the previous one, the first wave. Today we have an increased capacity for response in terms of equipment (protection equipment and medical equipment), which are distributed to a growing variety of categories: hospitals, RSA, law enforcement, local public transport, essential public services, schools. We also consider that, while at the beginning of the emergency our country lacked equipment, today, to a large extent, it can be considered self-sufficient. Until now, 1.6 billion of various products have been distributed and Italy is one of the few countries in the world - I would like to stress - where, every day, 11 million surgical masks are distributed free of charge to each student and to each member of the school community. Ultimately, at this time we are not under untenable pressure on the intensive care departments; rather, we see a growing and worrying crowd in the remaining departments of some hospital facilities in particular, with regard to sub-intensive therapies and the medical area in general. In this regard, in the last few days, a twofold action was put in place: last week a so-called agreement was signed with doctors of general medicine and with pediatricians of free choice, to allow them to administer to their assisted rapid antigenic tests, thus allowing to treat as much as possible patients at their homes, in order to lighten the pressures on hospitalizations and the use of first aid. Commissioner Arcuri has already purchased 10 million rapid tests that, from this week, through the Regions, will be distributed to ASL and doctors of general medicine, and that will also be used with respect to specific destinations, such as the school, so that they can also reduce forty. With this supply the Regions will be able to administer up to 100,000 rapid tests per day. A further demand for molecular swabs and extraction and amplification reagents has also been launched, leading to the administration of 250,000 classic molecular swabs per day. In conclusion, it will be possible to further increase the screening capacity of the Italian population, which, while at the beginning of the emergency did not exceed 25,000 swabs per day, today stood at about 200,000, being able to reach, starting from the next days, 350,000 tests (of various kinds) per day. In the event of a particularly adverse scenario, in conjunction with the Minister of Defence - whom I thank - we will have the means and the military medical personnel in part already operational. We can have 453 doctors and 867 military nurses in a matter of days. Moreover, I remember that the military health personnel are currently employed in the drive through of the Defense, all over the national territory, and we also have a Covid hospital at Celio, in Rome, and Covid hospital in Milan and Taranto. We are also in a position to intervene with four army field structures, if necessary, which can be used at notice starting from 72 hours. I would add that the Ministry of Health, at my request, is already working on an operational plan for the distribution of vaccines, so that, when the first doses begin to arrive, we can proceed in an organized manner, according to a predetermined and orderly plan. I can reasonably see that we will favour the most vulnerable and vulnerable sections of the population and those most exposed to danger. Among the most vulnerable groups, the government also considers the older people: they are our loved ones, who have realized the reconstruction of the country from the ruins of the Second World War, are our parents, our grandparents [[Applause]] , which, with hard work and spirit of initiative, have allowed our country to live the economic miracle, which has projected us among the most advanced powers on the planet and among the members of the G7. Despite the many efforts made to strengthen our health system, the development of the epidemic, especially in relation to the data of recent weeks, is very worrying. According to the parameters set out in the document "Prevention and response to Covid-19: evolution of the strategy and planning of the transition phase for the autumn-Winter period" drawn up at the Higher Institute of Health and by the Ministry of Health, shared at the Conference of the Regions, with the involvement of various universities and research centres, the epidemiological framework described is in transition to a scenario of type 4 - the most critical one, to understand us - in particular with reference to some regions, which already in the short term face the risk of maintaining health services. It is therefore confirmed that epidemiological framework, to which I have already mentioned, overall and widely serious throughout the national territory, with specific criticalities in many autonomous regions and provinces. In the last monitoring week, 11 Autonomous Regions and Provinces are classified at high risk of uncontrolled virus transmission and eight Autonomous Regions and Provinces are classified at moderate risk, with a high probability of high risk progress in the next month. The rapid increase in incidence is consistent with the increase in national RT, which currently stands at 1.7, with a lower index (but still close to 1.5) in a few regions. In some regions, however, since we are talking about an average, the figure is obviously higher than the national average. In the reference week, for the first time, it has been reported that the critical threshold of employment in medical areas has been exceeded and there is a high probability that 15 regions exceed the thresholds, identified as critical, of intensive therapies and medical areas, in the next month. Attention: it should be noted that the framework described above does not take into account the effects of the adoption of the restrictive measures introduced so far, and in particular I refer to the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 24 October, which introduced stricter restrictive measures and consequently does not take into account the impact of these measures on the growth curve. These effects may occur and be visible, as the experts suggest, at least fourteen days after the adoption of the measures themselves. Although the effects will be positive - as the experts assure us - we must also admit that, at the moment, there is no scientific evidence that allows us today to predict the measure of this impact, which is supposed to be positive. As a result, in the light of the latest report that - I remember it once again - has been prepared last Friday and the situation certified by it, which is widely serious on the national territory and particularly critical in some regions, we are forced to intervene with a view to prudence and maximum precaution to implement further measures to pursue a more stringent and mitigating strategy of the contagion. This strategy must necessarily be modulated on the basis of the different criticalities found in the territories, graduating the severity of the measures in view of the higher circulation of the virus and the higher risk of maintenance of health services. Therefore, we believe it is necessary to take a decision, geared to the principles of proportionality and adequacy, which includes new restrictive measures, modulated and differentiated on the basis of the level of risk found in the territories. On the basis of scientific criteria that have therefore been pre-defined and that we must consider absolutely objective, drawn up - as I have already said - by the Higher Institute of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Conference of the Regions and various university research centres, it will be necessary to introduce a differentiated regime based on different regional scenarios. Allow me some further clarification on this point, because it is an important step that needs to be explained well and must be understood by everyone, even by those who follow us from home. In Italy this monitoring system has been developed, over the last few months, which today puts us in a position to change strategy with respect to the first phase, when invaded by an unknown and invisible enemy, we have been forced to protect ourselves within our homes, also totally suspending our working life and our relationship life. In March, we all remember it, placed in front of an overwhelming event, in the absence of an operational plan punctually and in detail certified on the scientific level, on which to base every prodromic evaluation to the adoption of the measures, we have mostly enacted general and uniform measures throughout the national territory that, although through intermediate passages, have led us to a generalized lockdown. We have always acted on the principle of maximum precaution. We have always informed our action and our measures about the criteria of adequacy and proportionality, but - I repeat - we do not have an operational plan, nor do we have the accurate monitoring we now have. Today we have a structure of prevention and monitoring; attention, this system and this structure are not limited only - as is commonly believed - to measuring the rate of contagion on the territories, that is the famous RT, but elaborates the flow of data coming from the territory on the basis of twenty-one different parameters that are integrated between them, of which I remember the most significant: number of symptomatic cases notified per month; number of cases with history of hospitalization; number of socio-sanitary residential structures that find at least a weekly criticality; percentage of positive swabs; average time between date of onset of symptoms and date of diagnosis; index of replicability; number of transmission outbreaks; and certainly, not least by order of importance, also the degree of occupation of the beds of medical area or intensive therapy of the sanitary structures of that territory. This articulated system requires us today - it does not allow us - to intervene in a more targeted way, to restrict and, if necessary, loosen the measures on a territorial basis, because of the variations of the critical threshold. Therefore, when it is said that action is taken on several occasions to modify the measures, let us be careful that it is precisely a characteristic of this system, to which we must get used, because the effect will be to intervene on several occasions and in a more gradual, articulated and flexible way than in the first phase, thanks to a more accurate and structured monitoring, exemplified on the parameters indicated by this plan, which we have already mentioned and which, I repeat, has also been approved by the Regions. I would like to make one more point. If, in the presence of such an advanced system prepared with such care, we propose today a restrictive regime indistinct and undifferentiated throughout the national territory, we would obtain a double negative result, absolutely unacceptable: on the one hand, we would not take really adequate and effective measures compared to the real state of criticality of the regions currently more at risk and, on the other, we would end up imposing measures unreasonablely restrictive in those areas of the country where, at the moment, it is not necessary to intervene with particular severity. [[Applause]] To this end, in line with the plan I have already referred to, the next DPCM will identify three areas, corresponding to as many risk scenarios, for each of which measures are envisaged more restrictively. We will then have a band reserved for regions at high risk, in scenario 4, on which we will concentrate the most restrictive measures; then we will have a second band for regions at high risk, but compatible with scenario 3, therefore with measures slightly less restrictive; finally, there will be the third band, that for the whole national territory, for the remaining Regions. The insertion of a Region within one of the three areas, with the consequent and automatic application of the measures previewed for that band, will happen then, in order not to have to intervene from time to time with the instrument of the DPCM, with order of the Minister of Health and will depend, I repeat, exclusively and objectively from the coefficient of risk reached from the Region, to the outcome of the combination of the different parameters and as certified from the official report that the Higher Institute of Health periodically diffuses. Also with the order of the Minister of Health, it will be possible - and necessary - to get out of one area of risk and enter another at lower risk, if the region concerned registers coefficients compatible with the passage of belt. For the entire national territory where there are currently no high levels of risk - belt 3 to be understood - we intend to intervene only with some specific measures, which obviously add to those we have already adopted, which help to pursue in any case the containment and mitigation of the contagion. In particular, we think we have the closure on public holidays and prefectures of shopping malls, with the exception of pharmacies, parapharmacies, grocery stores, tobacco and newsstands that are located inside, due to the fact that the malls are particularly attractive, especially during the weekend. In line with the closing of the playrooms and bingo rooms, we also intend to have the closing of the corner used for betting and video games wherever they are placed. [[Applause]] Museums and exhibitions will also be closed. We expect a reduction of up to 50% in the capacity limit for local public transport. Finally, we plan to introduce the limit to travel to and from regions with high risk ratios, unless there is evidence of work needs, reasons for study or health, situations of necessity. As well as we expect limits to the movement of people in the late evening range, except, in this case too, the same exceptions as the proven working needs, the reasons for study or health, the situations of necessity. Finally, we anticipate the possibility that second-degree secondary schools can also fully switch to distance learning, hoping that this will be only a temporary measure. As for the other two containment and mitigation measures to be applied for the regions currently in the highest risk condition, we expect to introduce additional restrictive provisions, of course by graduating them in intensity and severity in proportion to the risk factor. In this critical hub of the European and global challenge against the virus, the guiding principle of our action remains the same: the priority, today as in the spring, is for the defence of human life and health, which is the precondition for the enjoyment of all other constitutionally guaranteed rights. We are aware of the frustration, the sense of loss, the tiredness of the citizens and also the anger that has manifested in the last few days. Citizens who now live with new limitations even to their personal freedoms. And we are also aware of the profound repercussions that restrictions will still have on economic activity, production and incomes. However, I would like to stress in this respect that there can be no dilemma between the protection of individual and collective health and the defence of our economy. [[Applause]] The more effective we will be in bending the contagion curve, the faster we will be able to loosen the restrictions needed today, thus avoiding an unsustainable deterioration of our economic and social fabric. This is proof, moreover, of the excellent economic performance that the European countries have shown in the third trimester of this year, after having tamed from June the increase of the contagion. In this context, however, Italy experienced a GDP growth of 16.1% in the third quarter, well above expectations and even exceeding GDP growth in the eurozone average, which I would remind you was 12.7%. Attention, we are thinking about data and macroeconomic scenarios, which certainly do not benefit those sections of the population that are most exposed to economic hardship and suffering at this stage of the pandemic. But this was an extraordinary result, which we owe to our companies, to our workers, to the same great discipline as the Italian citizens, to whom again we owe all our gratitude for the sacrifices made. The Government does not intend to withdraw one millimeter from the aim of ensuring the widest possible economic protection for Italian workers, businesses and families. The complexity of the situation we are experiencing requires us to provide all the support we need for as long as necessary and to the extent that it is necessary. All the additional financial efforts that we will have to make are elements of stability, certainty and security for the world of work which today appear absolutely indispensable. In this spirit we launched last week the decree-laws and, after a confrontation with the social partners, in the same spirit we decided to extend, until the end of March of next year, the blockage of dismissals, while guaranteeing for employers the so-called free Covid-19 integration fund. We also agree with Mr Gualtieri and Mr Patuanelli, who are already working on the further restrictions that are expected today, to put in place any useful action to restore and support the sectors most affected. It is often said that every crisis is an opportunity for change and transformation. What we are experiencing is now - you think - the third crisis in space of the last fifteen years and this time Italy, Europe and the West have the opportunity to give a real breakthrough that, on the contrary, has failed after previous episodes of crisis. Europe, as you know, has been able to meet this challenge, through the Next Generation EU programme and various other initiatives, to which Italy has made a decisive contribution and for which - we are fully aware of this - a new public-private pact is needed, as well as a new strategy for organising the public presence in the economy, which does not hinder the market but is able to direct it. In the coming months, it will be our National Recovery and Resilience Plan that will offer a new perspective for the modernisation of the country, in the wake of the great strategic objectives of the European Union. Even in such a dramatic moment, when we are all pressed by the urgency to provide and feel immersed in the management of everyday life, we cannot afford to distract our gaze from the future; we do not yet know the face of Italy that will come, but we know with certainty that the transformations in place will profoundly change it. The task of politics will be to guide, accompany this transition and no one can feel exempted from this historic challenge. Once again I conclude by allowing me to address an invitation to all the political forces and all the energies of the country: let us remain united. We remain united at this dramatic moment, in spite of the different ideas and beliefs, but in the name of unity and the values that, drawn from our constitutional framework, have been laid at the foundation of our coexistence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u7	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u8	Mr President, good afternoon to the President of the Council and the Government. I am telling the truth: I always very much appreciate the chairman of my Group Anna Maria Bernini, when he offers me the opportunity to speak in this Chamber, even today in front of the whole government and the highest summits. But this morning, when he offered me this opportunity, I replied: but what are we talking about doing with the government, since we have been doing it for months and never listens to us? [[Applause]] But President Bernini did not lose sight of it and urged me to try again today. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, came by saying that the sharing table is still open and that, if there were any second thoughts, you would be well disposed. Believe me, Mr President-in-Office, this is not the case. You do not do what you have done in the last eight months (I could have said even in these years) and then arrive at the moment of despair (in fact, I read, among the words you said, between the lines of your speech and also on the faces sometimes dismayed by some representative of the majority, despair) to make further decisions that will put again not on their knees, but on the ground of the country, the families and the enterprises. Then try to involve the opposition, who made proposals. You said in the House this morning (and you have repeated it here) that the National Health System is working, you have responded well, but you probably do not realize what is going on in the country. Since this morning in my Tuscany, which was a region quite prepared on this issue, the beds are not enough; we have to convert the sheds to hospitals; the CGIL has even decided to speak: management chaos, health system KO, lack the staff. Local health companies (ASL) not only do not have staff, but those who have worked in the first wave of the virus, doing extraordinary absurd hours, engaging from morning to evening and night, have not yet received the money for what they have done [[Applause]] Berlusconi and all Forza Italia have been calling for months for the use of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), to take these resources home at a zero rate, in order to increase the activity of our hospitals, to welcome people who are ill. No way. In eight months we could have done something, but nothing was done. You tell us about the agreement with the doctors of the last few days, but Mr President-in-Office of the Council we have had the emergency since February. We have been asking for family doctors to be used since February, but you have noticed it now, it is incredible. [[Applause.]] Today to get the result of a buffer you have to wait seven or eight days, because in many cases the analysis laboratories have been merged and in many of the Italian regions there are no more those on the outskirts, so you have to wait the days. Moving on to the economy, tourism and trade enterprises have been massacred, local public transport forgotten. Today we are talking about reducing the capacity of local public transport to 50%; it is from the beginning of summer that we tell you, when schools are reopened, to reduce the capacity to 50% and to use the tourist buses to take the kids to school. [[Applause]] The holiday bonus is unused for 1.8 billion; the other day also came an information document from the Senate according to which little more than 650 million were spent. So what do we do with the difference? We proposed to create a fund of 2.5 billion for businesses, but you said no; we told you to send people back to work with the backpack of the Integration Fund, allowing businesses to pay only the difference, but you said no. We asked you not to turn Italy into a subsidy system, but to give strong investment to companies that could have done business and development and be ready at this stage to have solid companies. You are erasing freedom, Mr President-in-Office of the Council; you are erasing freedom by erasing work. Has the public administration noticed the disaster? No, not much, but private individuals and businesses have noticed. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council and friends of the majority, we have the feeling that you and your Government are completely detached from the reality of the country and from your own majority. You electrocuted 100 billion euros without any prospect; you killed us, you ruined us. Don't go this way, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u9	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have stated that intercourse with Parliament is fundamental; well, the best way to demonstrate this is to make the reports of the Technical and Scientific Committee accessible to the whole of Parliament. [[Applause.]] Not four months later, in real time, Mr President, because you make decisions on the basis of data that only you have. We too have the right to know; there will be studies indicating where the contagions are stronger, whether in the pool, in sports, in theaters, in shopping malls, in schools, on public transport. It is a question of transparency and clarity that can help us in the opposition, but also the whole of Parliament to understand how things are going. Also because you have been chasing the virus for months now, which, as always for a few months now, has about three weeks of advantage over what is decided in Italy, but also in Europe. As far as Europe is concerned, there is no European anti-Covid strategy; recovery funds still on the high seas, but above all there is no plan B; we are all waiting for a vaccine that is not known when it will come, when it will be distributed to all. [[Applause]] and what possible effects it may have. We need a plan B that all of Europe doesn't have. Another issue: you say, Mr President, that we need to lighten up hospitals. Of course, we all agree. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We need to empty the E.R. from a lot of people who go there, who don't need it, who could be treated at home, but who are terrified of daily media messages. [[Applause]] Yesterday was done by public television a horror service on Monza and its Province, because it turns out to be the second Province for increase of contagions. Everyone calling terrified, asking if we were okay, what was going on and what was going on. That's not the way to communicate. People must be reassured, especially by implementing a word that nobody in this country wants to use and that no one understands: prevention. [[Applause.]] President, they sent recommendations to the house in Switzerland; they did not write books; they sent recommendations to the citizens at home. [[Applause]] , telling how to increase immune defenses, which medications to use. Even, as the Chinese say, prematurely and preventively administer antivirals at the first onset of symptoms, it helps to block the infection to avoid getting to the lungs. The Chinese say so, but is it possible that you, who have a preferential channel with them, haven't told you yet that this is what needs to be done? [[Applause.]] No more terror, no negationism, but enough terror and alarmism because you can with home care and tampons and of course, as has been said by everyone, with the involvement of the basic doctors do not make everything "centric hospital" as a cure. I would therefore like to make one final point. She said that you will make every effort to support the work. Very well, since with the new DCCM (and also the old one) basically many activities will be forced to close and many have already closed, and it has been said that a new decree will be made restaurateurs, then come to the Assembly to propose a new deviation because so much is what you will need. It is not the games of Gualtieri, who take away from one side and put on the other, that will solve the problems. Above all let's not call it a ristori decree because refreshment means that the damaged must receive what the State basically gives him; bonuses or tips. Let's call it a compensation order, because under Italian law compensation means that the beneficiary gets what he has lost, no more or less. [[Applause]] In Germany, companies under 50 employees gave 75% of the receipts for November of the previous year. This is what they do in Germany and other countries. And then, that you understand all the categories, not just some, because there is the whole world of the induced that revolves around the many activities that unfortunately have to close, all the supply chains, the agri-food one in particular. [[Applause]] In conclusion, Mr President, we need a change of pace. This cannot continue, because otherwise the clash will not only increase in the streets, but will also radicalise between the various political forces and in politics itself. At that point, Mr President, you will have to take all the responsibility for what might happen and then maybe your worst nightmare could actually come true. We tell you, don't say that we didn't tell you, because clearly these words will remain in the act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u11	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u12	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at the moment you have the difficult task of managing a complex situation: deciding what should continue to work and what should be and how it should be stopped in the light of the contagions. It is also true, however, that where there is no national lockdown, Title V of the Constitution gives the regions precise autonomy in their choices regarding certain sectors with related responsibilities. The school, which the Movimento 5 Stars has always claimed to remain a state garrison, risks in this context becoming a sacrificial victim of the absence or inability of programming at a territorial level [[Applause]] , the last thought of outgoing governors and reconfirmed in the last electoral rounds. You see, President, in my opinion you, who at the time swore on the Constitution, today have only two choices in front of the curve of contagions: go back to March 4, 2020 and arrange a total lockdown, if it is true that the situation requires it, or decide for targeted closures that, however, save schools of every order and grade, within which however throughout the national territory, the curve of contagions stands at only 3.8 percent. The problem, then, are rapid tests, local public transport, out-of-school gatherings, or didactics in attendance? Let us take the most appropriate decisions on the basis of the level of responsibility of each person, leaving to the Presidents of the Region and the mayors, in their autonomy, the task of dictating substantive provisions to be answered in the face of citizens and voters. The reform of Title V was not born to create vassals, valvassors and valvassins, but to distribute tasks, functions and responsibilities according to the principles of subsidiarity, adequacy and differentiation, so as to allow local administrators to adopt autonomous choices for communities that contribute to the pursuit of national objectives. After impoverishing public health for the benefit of private health in the last two decades, with a pandemic situation that has lasted for seven months and which called on the Regions to plan carefully the measures on health and public transport, many governors and mayors have presented themselves to the re-opening of schools completely unprepared. Now, however, there is a call to mitigate the common perception of their inefficiencies by measures which seriously undermine the right to education throughout the national territory. We don't have to let that happen. In the six months from the beginning of the pandemic to the reopening of the schools, while the political and media vulgate banged on the front page the only Minister always at work to open schools and keep them open, many governors, the same who now ask the government for the closure of the schools, were in the electoral campaign. [[Applause]] Welcoming responsibilities that do not belong to this Government and this Parliament is not an act of institutional correctness, at this point, but an irresponsible political act that undermines one of the fundamental rights of our Constitutional Charter, the right to education. It will certainly not help to reopen the schools; on the contrary, it will ensure that those who have done nothing to date, nothing will continue to do, trusting in the government's cover. What, then, are the data on the contagion curve, the data of the Ministry of Health that would induce you to lean for DAD at 100 percent in high school? I remember that just a week ago, 75 percent of DAD had been set up at national level. Is there any data on how much that remaining 25 percent of public transport has affected this last week? Has there been a regional and municipal planning, as the regional tables of this summer anticipated? Let's keep in mind, before closing schools, that there is a Region that stopped school attendance completely, on October 16, and the curve of contagions did not undergo any downward remodulation. [[Applause]] These youngsters, who today attend the second grade secondary school, last year attended only four months in attendance and didactics at a distance of over 60 percent of students, 100 percent on BES, DSA and disabled, showed amply that they lacked total incisiveness. We risk leaving back kids who have not yet overcome cognitive deficits due to last school year's lockdown, deciding to leave them out since November simply because who is older can be alone at home? Is that the exclusion criterion? This would be the school that must ensure social mobility for all, even for whom - and they are the majority of students of both cycles of education - can't from home learn? Our children are entitled to education, not a state parking lot. [[Applause]] The regional provisions on the maintenance of the nursery school alone, where the reduced prevention measures adopted would give much more thought to the management of contagions than to the segments of the obligation in which students of the second cycle also belong, betray an idea of school based exclusively on its complementarity with the productive activities. Those who give birth to these measures certainly do not believe in the social elevator function of the school, do not believe that the school is the basis of our democracy, do not believe in the right to education, do not believe in the right of the many subjects BES, DSA and disabled to be included and to recover the disadvantages, as provided for in Article 3 of our Constitutional Charter. Perhaps this is the real problem: the mass cultural and value regression that has invested our country and has also found complicit condescendingness in the high institutional spheres. [[Applause]] Where France, Germany and the United Kingdom close everything except schools, would we like to keep some economic activities open by closing schools? The school must be the last to close. [[Applause]] And that phrase from Fontana, or we reduce people going to work, or we reduce people going to school, betrays that guilty opinion that productive activities are a priority over everything, the constitutional right to education in particular. On the contrary, the state should impose today on regions with local public transport and health skills, an ad hoc plan to resume teaching in presence from the first cycle to high school, with a precise timing. The first cycle must not be touched on and, if this were to happen because of force majeure in some situations where the health situation leaves no choice, and in any case only in the case of total lockdown, this should take place only in the presence of an articulated plan for reopening as soon as the situation of the contagions permits. [[Applause]] High school students are no less fragile than elementary and middle school students as far as distance learning skills are concerned. They must train skills to enter the world of work or to continue their studies. We cannot deny them the future that each of us had the opportunity to build through public school. The distance learning, unfortunately, has not proved a good solution: it preludes to an uncontrollable increase in school dispersal, which in our country already affects 14.5% of students, compared to 12.8 of the European average. These figures must be compared with those who continue and complete their studies at the university, in which we are always taillights in Europe. Poor investment in education over the past decade and facade promotions to save the cost of recovering the training gap have dramatically lowered the quality levels of public school provision. Dulcis in the end, the latest reforms have given the blow of grace. In my opinion, we should set a chronological limit and precise actions, in agreement with all the ministries concerned, with the Presidents of the Regions and with the mayors, not only to keep the schools of the first cycle open, but also to be ready to reopen the secondary ones of second degree with a frequency of 100%, as soon as the individual indices of contagion and local RT allow it. This is an act of responsibility towards the country. The productive activities can be refreshed with economic measures and this is our task, to which we are not subtracting. Unfortunately, there is no remedy for the lost school years and missing pupils. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Marzio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the time for recriminations, because I fear that the country's health and economic situation is far more serious than it appears. There is therefore no alternative to the endorsement of his decree. This, however, cannot lead to resignation and silence, not only on the mortification of Parliament's role in the management of the pandemic, but also on the responsibilities of the very serious under-sizing of the Public Health Service, mortified by decades of obtuse logic of account, when not brazenly enslaved to the client interests of a policy attentive only to the exercise of power; it is a silence that would be imperviously guilty by those who have dealt with hygiene and preventive medicine for almost forty years as hospital health director, having to suffer the consequences. The biocontent suits are nothing substantially different from the one worn by Dr. Schnabel in the incision - which you know, Mr. President - with the parrot beak, in which there was a sponge soaked in vinegar to keep away the myasms. The confinement in the house and the self-certification that we have experienced are nothing different from the notices concerning orders and prohibitions for the interest of health, which they prescribed as early as 1657: secondaryly they prohibit each person from leaving the jurisdiction of the place where he lives or outside the city to pass to other place or jurisdiction, if he does not have the bill of health of his person with the day and place from which he departs, name, surname, age, stature and fur; otherwise, he is not allowed to pass, but is considered and kidnapped in the home or in other place separated from the trade, to which they place guards at his expense, who not only forbid others, but no less they practice with such seized, warning that in arresting them the guards do not open up, so that there can be no danger. The same prevention measures are now being taken with confinement at home. In five hundred years nothing has changed. It should be clear to everyone that the reality is that, without vaccines and drugs, we can only confine people in order to break down the contagion curve. The problem is not to understand what needs to be done, but to accept and explain its ineluctability. Primum vivere, postia philosophere. It is unacceptable for certain survivors to be judged more worthy than others and for doctors to be in a position to take such decisions. It is the spectre of eugenics, motivated by economic reasons of cost-benefit, reserved for disabled people in Nazi Germany, which subtlely resurfaces: the way to hell is always paved with good intentions. It is necessary to understand that we are facing an epochal and irreversible change, to which it will be necessary painfully to adapt, in which the apparent certainties of the past have definitely gone down and no longer exists the division between a world in which one is condemned to die of infectious diseases that would often be curable and another in which one affords the luxury, after expensive treatments, to die of chronic-degenerative diseases that would have been mostly susceptible to primary prevention. Therefore, inevitably, the principles of economic theory will have to be traumatically refounded; otherwise, when the engine bursts on the scene, the fate of the masks is marked. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u15	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u16	Mr President, I immediately acknowledge and thank the President-in-Office of the Council for coming to the Senate before his next presidential decree. I also thank him for accepting the vote of this House. After twelve measures which Parliament has been informed of as a result, this gesture by the Government is a sign that in our highest institutions there is a memory of that division of powers that we should all observe carefully. I will therefore vote in favour of the government, as I have always done since August last year. I have a great deal of understanding about the complexity of the development of the new measures by a coalition government that operates in a condition of weakness of the overall political framework and institutional uncertainty, starting from the relationship between the State and the Regions. The measures that have been announced to us today, however, are urgent and necessary, even painful, but certainly not postponed, and will have to serve to avoid a national lockdown and to reverse the curve of the contagions. Today's vote does not only have a political value, nor does it have just the approval of the rules that the government is about to adopt. Our vote and the position that will assume the oppositions will also give the measure of our institutional sensitivity and our civic sense, because it is precisely from the compactness with which Italy will be able to counter the virus that will depend on the fate of our country for at least a couple of generations. An opposition that opposes the Government always has a positive function: it can help to understand the problems and the drives of the Country; in the extreme conditions in which Italy is located, however, to use the force of the opposition trying to delay or make fail the initiatives of the Government against the Coronavirus is an act without outlets. In all mature democracies, the opposition thinks of the future of its country not only for civic sense, but also for its own political interest. The political wheel turns and those who are in opposition today could go to the government tomorrow and should hope not to find a country submerged by the rubble that has effectively helped determine firsthand. The use of the decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council is a subject that oppositions often use, although, as is often the case, it is easy to remain on the surface of the problem. Those who face the issue of decrees should at least recognize that in our Constitution, while the urgency and necessity are well planned and regulated, nothing is said - and, fortunately, I say - of the exceptional state that our country has been going through for eight months and that must therefore be governed by the ordinary instruments that the order offers. It is on this architecture of the sources that the legitimacy of the decrees of the President of the Council is based. What is quite different is the decadence of Parliament, which President Alberti Casellati and many of us have repeatedly denounced. For more than forty years legislative power has been transferred from Parliament to the Government through the overabundant use of the decree-laws, often examined by one Chamber and ratified by the other. This is a profound change in the delicate balance of constitutional powers, which shifts the legislative power elsewhere. Parliament should find the strength to open a deep debate on what model of democracy we need to solve the Italian crisis and what remains of the division between the powers (legislative, executive and judicial) desired by the Constitution. Bicameralism and the relationship between Parliament and the Government are not taboos, but to modify them by practice, without a debate or a parliamentary vote, does not correspond to our principles. It is not by chance that the immense theme of the sources of law and that, equally vast and profound, of the division of powers come to light precisely in difficult times like those we are going through, because, paraphrasing the title of an outgoing book, we must not waste this crisis, indeed, we must use our anxiety to improve and the desire to move forward despite the pandemic to launch institutional reforms (which we have identified and of which we absolutely need). I say this briefly, I am sure that the Senate will understand: monocameralism is better than a lame, confused, bicameralism always on the verge of being changed. Until now, the legal mutation has been handled by the governments that have alternated in our country with all the necessary caution and never for purposes contrary to the basic rules of democracy; however, Parliament must reflect on the risks that tomorrow, under various political conditions, a constitutional reformism implemented by practice can be used with ease even for purposes that of democracy could have nothing. The virus is putting the world and Europe in front of their responsibilities and the need for increasingly collaborative and supportive policies. Last week several cities of Italy saw appear, alongside honest citizens who showed up to protect their interests, organized and violent groups, which caused riots, wounded men of the police forces and devastated streets, shops and shopping malls. It's a serious alarm. We must warn that violence is not fought and public order is not protected in a permanent climate of political and parliamentary conflict. The benefits of the recovery fund and the Sure Fund are silenced Countries and political forces opposed by principle to the European Union and the euro. Faced with the evidence of a deadly risk that affects us all and in the face of the urgent need to support with considerable resources the strengthening of the National Health Service, the same state-saving fund begins to be seen - even by its most ideological enemies - with less hostility. The ESM serves Italy, Mr President, and it was a mistake not to use it in time. There is a competition in the world for the search for a vaccine and there is no nation that does not commit itself in advance to involving the entire international community in its discoveries. It is the common danger that is determining international collaborations that only a few months ago seemed impossible and it is on this political process - not Italian, but international - determined not by interests, but only by the need to defeat the virus, which I draw the attention of political forces of majority and above all opposition. I address myself to the President-in-Office of the Council, if I may, the anathema of the President of Liguria, Dr Toti. The President opened his relationship with the opposition: show the country that he is trying, with constancy and good will, to involve them in the fight against the virus. He calls and calls the opposition leaders himself, insists, meets them and hears them; and, if they have indications compatible with the prescriptions of the health authority and with the interests of the country, insert them into the government's programs. In the drama we are experiencing, nothing must be left in motion. Even Greece and Turkey, who were close to war a week ago over a fierce exploitation dispute... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, please give me one more minute. I said that even Greece, Turkey, which was close to wage war a week ago over a fierce dispute over the exploitation of energy resources in disputed territorial waters, faced with the disaster of an earthquake that struck both of them. Ours are not military wars, but political battles; they are the hall of democratic dialectic; they are the ideas in which we believe and for which we fight, but it is precisely the fidelity to our values that can help us see with clear eyes the dimensions of the tragedy that is endangering the health and life of the Italians, that is impoverishing us, that is changing our habits and that obliges majority and oppositions to face together, to contain and beat a catastrophe of such immense proportions. In conclusion, I would like to say to all my fellow senators, of majority and opposition, that the broad national solidarity that we need today on measures to combat the pandemic does not compromise us politically, in a solidarity that, indeed, makes us stronger - and certainly much more credible - in front of our public opinion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u17	Senator Cerno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. I would ask colleagues not to create assemblies in this House. This is precisely what we are discussing: this ban is the result of restrictions of a personal and economic nature. Let us start here to set a good example. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, former lawyer for Italians, today more doctor than Italians (and tomorrow, who knows?). I do not want to go into this trick and quit on who knows how to close the shops better or who knows how to keep them open, which I think Parliament is greedy about. In the three minutes at my disposal, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to speak frankly of the doubts I have, listening to the Italians, out there, and you, in here. He handled the first emergency, that of March, sailing with dexterity and fatigue over a global fear, that of a new virus, that scared everyone. It did well and was acceptable, because it had just happened and Italy was in the midst of chaos. At the time we understood it and that's why Italy, eight months ago, gave her confidence: she trusted her. Then came the heat, the virus stopped a bit, gave us a break and gave it time to transform this policy of fear, ridden for the good of the Italians, into something less temporary, less precarious; it gave it time to transform it into a project of great and new European sociality, in which our moving (the goods and people moving in a space conquered over the decades) was regulated with intelligence and, hopefully, by all in the same way, to allow us to still have a space in which to live and operate, and not to lock ourselves inside the houses. Listening to you today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I thought that you have interpreted and continue to interpret the Covid as a tunnel in which we enter and exit; my impression, listening to the Italians out there, is that Covid is a social agent, that has changed Italy that you knew eight months ago as your follower, that he just listened to her and that today instead goes to the squares. So many good people go to those squares and not just the violent ones, which we all obviously condemn. The map of that Italy has changed, both for the disease and for health, because there are millions of Italians who are infected by the virus without being infected, who see for themselves a future that does not exist, that will not be dead, but is mortification. It is what, according to his schemes, could be scenario 5: all healed and all mortified, without a future. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today you have told us that we must resort to further restrictions - there is one every week - by virtue of this emergency, which is worse than the first. Let us remember, however, Italy's reaction to the closing of restaurants at 6 p.m.: I don't come to tell her what an impression she made, because she knows it better than I do, with an influence that assumes an almost union connotation, with contagion shifts, in a country that was recovering. This measure is then placed in this House as something that has now passed, as if it had not provoked anything; we do not know if it has done some good, we will never know if that is the reason, but we know that we will go towards further closures. I was expecting two things from you, and I am still waiting for you: Europe, as well as dealing with compensations, reliefs and compensations, is concerned with saying that we exist and that there is someone who puts to the West, this continent and our habits, rules - which we will follow - of health prevention, logic and rational. In fact, if the perception is passed that this Government and this Parliament respond to yet another emergency with something irrational, social peace ends and the clash of the streets makes the Covid more dangerous than they do less precautions. Only in a socially stable climate, therefore of trust and intellectual honesty among us, can we expect that Italians, questioning their lives - and, often, generations of work - follow us. On the other hand, it is clear that on certain local scenarios... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. CERNO (Mixed). I'll finish. Therefore, I invite you to reason on how much the rationality of the norms contributes to the objective (as much as the norm itself), convinced that Italy today is a little bit further than its speech on this subject, which seems to me to repeat the emergency, the emergency, the emergency; we must. There is also what we can, because otherwise, if the emergency ends, for medicines, vaccines and what it will be, there will be devastated social classes, changed situations, poverty, debts, loneliness and no future. All this will be an effect of its legislation, against which no world health body will be able to find a vaccine anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u19	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, fellow senators, we all know that the pandemic in February came upon our country in an unpredictable and aggressive manner, declaring war on each of us. So, the first Italian citizens who responded to the call to arms were doctors, nurses, health workers, technicians and volunteers, who put their lives at the service of the country and enlightened our hopes, but who today - we must note - the government has already forgotten. Together with them, all Italian, small and adult citizens have come down to the fighting field. To fight the virus together, they put at risk all the sacrifices, economic and work, of a lifetime, staying at home ninety days, without salary and without turnover for their company, accumulating additional debt; the youngest without going to school, the elderly closed in fear of contagion: but they did it to save our nation and show how much they love Italy. You see, Mr President, after ninety days we won a battle, but we all knew it was just a battle and we had to win a war. And we in Forza Italia, with the entire Parliamentary Group and the Bernini group, have remained in this House, every day, to bring proposals and solutions to overcome the fear of contagion and the increase of the epidemic curve. [[Applause]] We have done this out of institutional loyalty, because we have sworn allegiance to the State and our citizens with all our heart. We did so in order to respect the heartfelt appeal, made several times, of the President of the Italian Republic, Sergio Mattarella, whom we thank for the closeness that shows, at any time useful, to all citizens and to the entire country. You see, Mr President, what is missing - and it is serious - is that, in front of this great army of volunteers (because we all wanted the same thing: winning a war, not a battle), the doctors continued to work, the nurses continued to serve and the entrepreneurs gave up and continued to get in debt and get in order to open up in compliance with the rules. They have been indebted by spending all their savings, hoping that in the second wave, on the return of the pandemic, they would find a state prepared to protect their shoulders, capable of protecting everyone's life and saving the country from the deep economic crisis that we are still living today. But that state wasn't there, excuse the word game: it didn't happen, even though you decided to govern the events on your own, with the DPCMs. You have not considered our proposals. We would like to know why in these five months, Mr Conte, you have not thought of strengthening, as we imagined, the National Health Service, which, as it entered into crisis, then led to the consequences that we know, namely the lockdown and the economic crisis. Why? We can't answer that. The only thing we can imagine is that maybe you no longer believed that the second wave of the pandemic could return; you didn't believe it anymore. On 3 April we were in this House saying that we needed the Covid hospitals, 60,000 Covid beds, one for every 1,000 people, and instead an ICU for every 2,800 inhabitants, while today we find ourselves with a fifth of the intensive therapies useful to be able to face the second wave with our heads high. That is why we are here today discussing restrictions, because there has been no planning, Mr Conte. We have asked for effective home care, while today we find ourselves with 200,000 citizens at home, who do not know how to behave inside their home: they do not know whether to leave the place where they are in isolation or how to behave to avoid infection, inside their family and outside. We have called for increased public transport. With this plan, with the Covid hospitals and with the enlistment of resident doctors and nurses we could have resisted the contagion of 2 million citizens at the same time: today there are 400,000 infected citizens and we are talking about restrictions. In conclusion, Mr President, we have always been in favour of setting up the ESM to strengthen the health service: we have been saying this since May. It was a battle carried out for our party in Europe by President Berlusconi, who did so every time we discussed Italy and the pandemic. It was important, at that time, to activate the ESM in order to achieve the strengthening that is lacking. In this global war we could have shown the whole world, Germany, France and the United States, the greatest spectacle in history and freedom. There is a united Parliament, which wins the war in the name of democracy, of every single citizen and of Italian ingenuity. With the DPCM, however, we could not discuss anything. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to highlight one important point. What offends every Italian citizen is when someone from the government or the majority tries to console him, inviting him to observe who is worse. It is not from us Italians, it is not from educated people and does not belong to our history, resignation. Let's remember Fabrizio Quattrocchi who in Iraq, on his knees, faced those who were executing him at that moment, saying: I'll show you how an Italian dies. We must never resign ourselves and never let the enemy take us down. We must always react: this is Italy that they know in the world; this is Italy that I asked in this House on 31 January last year to know in front of the pandemic. We asked the government to intervene in Europe immediately - it was 31 January - because only through European coordination and an international strategy could we block the pandemic. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] We are here for Italy, Mr President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u21	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u22	Mr. Conte, you're certainly very good with words, but let me tell you that you haven't convinced us at all today. [[Applause]] The actions of the Government that you described are very clearly confronted with the reality that our citizens live in our cities and, above all, in our hospitals. The evil that came upon us at the end of February certainly caught everyone off guard; it was an unknown evil, which our doctors did not even know how to cure. The government was faced with a dramatic situation: anyone in your place would have been put to the test and would have made mistakes; and in fact, everything in the first phase was forgiven, both by the oppositions, and by the Italians: they understood the difficulties of the moment and your every decision was accepted with a great sense of responsibility and with so much patience. Many have lost their jobs, their savings, their activities. However, they all held fast and were close to the government, the regional administrations and their mayors. But now, Mr President, eight months after the beginning of this tragedy, patience is no longer there. [[Applause]] The understanding of the government's difficulties is over. The feeling that we're all feeling is that you're now moving forward, that you've lost course and above all that you've lost so much, too much precious time. Time was the most important good to get prepared for this second and new wave of infection and you used it badly; you wasted it. You had to plan an effective defense of our health and economic fabric and you failed on both fronts. Today, what we breathe among our citizens, in our communities and in our squares is no longer a patient expectation, it is no longer only despondency and suffering, but it is anger, a deep anger. With the experience gained in the field in the first three months of the pandemic you had all the elements to act well and quickly, but you did not; your summer interventions were slow and often useless. And do not tell us that the opposition has not made any proposals; we have done so in this House and in the Commission, on every measure you have submitted to us. We have voted for every budgetary deviation to give you the financial instruments to act. [[Applause]] We did not hinder your choices, even when they seemed wrong or ineffective. You have allocated 100 billion in four months (many, many): but where are the positive effects of all this money? Why hasn't the Integration Fund arrived to those who are entitled to it yet? We'll keep asking you this question. Why isn't there enough medical personnel in the wards? Why didn't you prioritize the formation of new anesthetists? Why do not the beds, beyond what you say, in hospitals in some regions suffice? Why are students and workers still crammed like sardines on buses, trains, planes and subways? [[Applause]] Why didn't you speed up local public transport in time? Why have you lost time and resources to buy benches (with or without wheels), which are coming in these hours in sadly empty classes? Why have you engaged the municipalities to run to raise walls in the gym and public buildings, to create classrooms that are still desolately empty today? Why, Mr President, do you not remove Mr Azzolina and Mr Arcuri from their posts for manifest inability? [[Applause]] Why are all your decisions taken and cancelled within a week? Schools open and then partially closed; then all high schools closed and tomorrow maybe also middle school. And again: stadiums and palazzetti closed to the public, then with a thousand spectators and, a week later, closed again. And again: first it is all the fault of the Regions and the mayors, but, soon after, all difficult and thorny decisions are delegated to them by the government. And again: the contagion gets up and what do you do? They are closing at random of the activities and propose improvised and inconsistent closing times, without a logic, without a coherent thread; every choice is dictated by the improvisation and confusion in which the Government crashed. Why all the chaos? Why, Mr. President of the Count Council? Why, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers? Why, why and why again? You need to give us some answers. You do not owe it to us, but to our citizens, our communities and workers who cannot work and earn their bread; you owe it to our families. Restaurants, hoteliers, taxi drivers, traders and students (all the activities involved in your decisions) are willing to make sacrifices to protect the health of Italians, but they have the feeling that you make random decisions and are victims of your approximation and incompetence. They don't tolerate that anymore. The improvisation of the government's latest decisions worries us. The feeling that we are living today is that of a drifting ship, without helmsman, with the unprepared crew and a skipper, who no longer knows what to catch. Despite everything, we will continue to work together in the Commissions and in Parliament; we will do so in order to defend our families and our communities. Let me say one thing, however: you are not demonstrating that you are up to the difficult situation we are experiencing. Get busy, act and do it right and quickly. Starting with public transport and health care, you still have a lot to do. Mr. President Count, get a move on. The country can't wait any longer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u24	Mr President, nice President Conte, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the infection has unfortunately returned to alarm and we see it all over Europe. In France and Spain the threshold of one million has been exceeded and in almost all countries semi lockdowns have begun: the places of aggregation are closed, the displacements limited. In short, massive preventive action is under way to lighten national health systems. What is important, in fact, is to try to act in a timely manner to ensure the functioning of health. Not reaching saturation of beds and intensive therapies is essential and necessary also to ensure adequate care for all patients, not only those who contract the Covid-19. We have seen in recent months that unfortunately there have been entire categories of patients who have been left behind and this must no longer happen. Then, intervening now, in a surgical way, is not only functional to avoid that national lockdown that our economy cannot afford, but also serves to decongestant the regions in difficulty, to give oxygen to their health systems and their hospitals, also because we know that not all the Regions have managed to carry out what the Government had foreseen in terms of special units of welfare continuity and beds in intensive care. There are reports from citizens who find themselves having to manage the virus, who are not contacted by ASL. We will take stock of the reactions of the regional governments later, of the mistakes made, of the lightnesses and of the shortcomings. Of course it is now necessary to react, together, putting aside the political controversy and everything that is not needed by the country and the Italians. You have to look at those models that are working more than others and take them for example. I am thinking, for example, of Emilia Romagna, which makes available to patients Covid-19 structures in order to be able to isolate themselves from family members (also the Municipality of Rome is working in this direction); I am thinking of Veneto, which is improving the interaction with doctors of general medicine in order to strengthen services on the territory to citizens. Here, these are fundamental steps, because we know that many infections occur in the family and we must avoid it. We also need an effort on the part of the citizens, no matter how tired, no matter how saturated they are. We all are, but we have no choice but to give up. We try to reduce sociality to the minimum necessary; the time will come when we will go back to dinner as friends, to participate in parties, to go to dinner outside, to theatre and museums and to embrace us; That moment, however, is not today and it is important to understand it to the full. This government has been praised even by the World Health Organization for the way it managed the first wave of the pandemic and it is good to remember that compared to last March the situation improved. We have learned a lot, science has made progress; our doctors, nurses and health workers know what battle they are fighting and have learned to know the enemy. It is also out of respect for those on the front line every day who need a sense of responsibility, even from those who have not always shown it. Remember that using the masks is fundamental; remember that keeping the distance is fundamental. As you said, Mr President, there can be no dilemma between health protection and economics. In this sense they leave little doubt the statements of the governor of Liguria Toti who defined the elderly not indispensable to the productive effort of the country, except then attempt to rectify this bad sentence, or those pronounced in the House a few hours ago by Borghi, who even pushed himself to say that the work comes before health. Perhaps it is not clear that without health there can be no economic recovery [[Applause]] And the more we'll be able to bend the contagion curve, the more we can loosen the restrictions. I would like to repeat what you said in this House, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: health and human life are the precondition for the enjoyment of all other constitutional rights. Let us remember that the sectors most affected by the new restrictions will not be abandoned: there are 5 billion euros in the last decree ristori, we also expect double aid compared to June for some categories; we have extended the Cassa Integrazione, the blocking of redundancies; we are doing everything in our power to safeguard the health of all, but also the economy. We are doing everything in our power to really stay close to those who are most in trouble, even with emergency income or for example by closing the gaming corners - as you said - slot machines and betting rooms in any exercise and this is crucial for those suffering from pathological gambling. [[Applause]] Woe, however, to riding the fears of the citizens, woe to feed them. They must be heard and answered, but they must be done with facts, not with polemics, not propaganda. We need seriousness, the same seriousness that, analyzing everything we are going through, will lead us to a serious reflection on that reform of Title V that has led us to have so many different health systems. It is a system that has shown enormous limits and that will need to be rethought. The legacy that will leave us the Covid-19 must not be only pain and fear, but must be first and foremost a teaching: to understand that you cannot cut 37 billion euros to the health system as it has been done in the last ten years, to understand that all the investments made by this Government will have to be only a first step and an example for the future, an example not to forget to return to having a unique National Health Service from the Alps to Sicily, in which every citizen is always guaranteed the best possible care. To rethink that reform of Title V that showed its limitations - the Movimento says it for years - here in the Senate we also deposited a bill, signed by Senator Paola Taverna. Our National Health Service has just turned 40; it is one of the best health systems in the world, we have seen what kind of miracle our healthcare professionals have been able to do, which is all our support and thanks. We must not forget it today by doing everything we need and we must not forget it tomorrow, by returning to the principles of universality, equality and fairness that have made our health in the world great. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u25	Senator Magorno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in intervening in this House, I strongly feel the sense of responsibility to which I cannot and do not want to escape, that of representing, as mayor of Diamante, a municipality of the Calabrian High Tyrrhenian, the voice of those mayors, of those peoples of my region and of the whole Mezzogiorno who are experiencing the nightmare of this second wave of the Covid-19. When the pandemic appeared in the first months of the year, we found ourselves fighting against a threatening enemy but far from our territories; however, as mayors we did everything we could. With the few means at our disposal, never as on this occasion, we were outposts of the State in an emergency situation never seen until then. The mayors have been supported in this commitment by the extraordinary civic sense and solidarity demonstrated by our populations, to which a deep and sincere gratitude must be addressed. Now, despite the inexhaustible efforts that have been made in recent months, the virus is among us, it is an enemy with whom we daily engage a strenuous body-to-body struggle. I can say that with certainty and with some regret. The months between the end of the first wave and the one we are now experiencing are a missed opportunity to provide our territories in the Mezzogiorno with the tools necessary to deal with the possible reappearance of the pandemic and to bring concrete aid to the sectors affected by the economic crisis, from tourism to services, to the people of VAT consignments, economic operators. Time has been wasted in putting our hands on the structural shortcomings of a health network that is struggling to manage ordinaryity, let alone a pandemic of the proportions of what we are experiencing. The image of the other night is worth more than any other speech, with ambulances lining up at the Civil Hospital of the Annunziata in Cosenza waiting to transport Covid's patients to the ward. On this occasion I want to highlight the heroic resistance of the doctors and paramedic staff of our region. If hospitals are on the same dramatic collapse it is the situation on the territories, with our ASL that with a staff reduced to the bone, also heroic, they must manage the multiplication of the swabs and the tracings to be carried out, with the consequent delays that all this entails. From our Region, President, comes a loud and desperate cry. The viscous and suffocating skein that prevents Calabrian health care from working is finally dissolved. This virus, Mr President, has taught us a clear lesson in its hardness: to deal with it we must avoid any ambiguity and any timidity, we need clear choices even when they may appear painful and restrictive. I would also like to say loudly in this House that I believe that our schools must be places that are completely safe for our children, and if they risk not being, that is not to be blamed for the lack of school organisation. The danger comes from the devious ability of the virus itself to find in our schools a potential place of infection. If you want to ensure the safety of our children you must equip each school with your own health care, a doctor, the possibility of making fast swabs. It is a concrete proposal that I address to the Government and the Regions that would certainly be effective and would reassure parents and school staff during this period of great concern. President, I want to tell you what happened to me in my experience as mayor. I have personally accompanied the children of two classes of the institute, including my city, to carry out the swabs necessary for the presence of positive cases. They were forced to reach a health clinic in the crisis unit (USC) 30 kilometers away on a cold and rainy day. It was an experience lived by me adult and father - luckily - with a sense of deep anguish. Imagine then how this anguish multiplied and represented a trauma in the mind of each subject to the buffer. The government takes this into account in its work, review some choices and, where possible, minimize trauma for our children. In conclusion, I would like to draw an ideal link between young people and the elderly with the words of Pope Francis. It is good for the elderly to communicate wisdom to young people and it is good for young people to collect this heritage of experience and wisdom and carry it forward, not to keep it in a museum but to face the challenges that life presents us. I feel like doing so after the words read yesterday and published on social media by the president of a rich and important region of our country. I want to say this without concealing my indignation because the sacred protection of life at every age is the ultimate goal to which we must look, remembering, as the President of the Council has already done, that our elderly, the elderly of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, have rendered an extraordinary economic and social service to our country, when in the post-war period they had to emigrate because of the misery and poverty in which the Mezzogiorno of Italy was pouring. Our elders have built Italy making it a great country; our elderly have worked night and day to produce wealth and well-being; our elderly with their poor pensions - which should be doubled - provide every day in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, even in our Calabria, for the lack of family welfare that the State does not guarantee. In our land the elders who have chosen the painful way of emigration, with their forgiveness of their sweat, have given a future to the successive generations of Calabria. Our elders are a social and human heritage to be protected. I think with emotion to the elders of our land, that in their... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . .of the suffering, beauty and love of Calabria and I conclude with an ancient African proverb: an elder who dies is a library that burns. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council has told us, repeating what has already been said in the Chamber of Deputies, that the Government has acted on the principle of maximum precaution, following criteria of adequacy and proportionality. Mr Conte, are you convinced to the full of what you have said and reiterated? Does that sound like it to you? "So it is if you think it is, Pirandello would say, but what we observe in the country, in this moment of great confusion, concern, frustration, is far from it, President, and we believe that it is necessary to become aware especially in you more than in the opposition, since for months you have spoken to us of the model Italy in combating the emergency coronavirus and instead it seems to us that, especially from that 18 May, in which our nation was reopened, the government action has been characterized by a great superficiality, which is why today we find ourselves in difficulties as before and much more than before. From Brothers of Italy the proposals have always come and are contained in parliamentary acts: over 2,000 amendments that we have tabled to all the measures that have arrived in this House. We have never strayed from this, which is a duty that we do not feel towards you who are in the government but a duty that we feel towards our homeland. You have not listened to anything, just a few polite invitations, as you do in a tea room, dear President, resigning only a cordial confrontation of which you have not made any treasure. I will give some examples, but the list would be very long. Let's start with health care, which is what you say is most important to you. Senator Zaffini, in the talks with Minister Hope, with Deputy Minister Sileri, in all the seats, from the Commissions to the occasions for information that have been here in the Chamber, said clearly what were the priorities of the Brothers of Italy Group. We made it clear that the Immuni app was an experience that didn't work and in fact the Immuni app doesn't work: the tracking has completely skipped in this country. Today you lay down your weapons without recognizing that you were told and that you have not taken advantage of these counsels. Mass screening: but do you know what happens on the territories? Do you know that whole families are completely delivered to abandonment, in total panic, and do not know how they should behave when they suspect - and in some cases the certainty - that they are suffering from coronavirus? It is a completely out of control situation, in many areas of the country, I tell you in particular about my Region, Campania, where you have a president who does not go beyond the TV shows, that does not go beyond the announcements of terror, that offends mothers and children who have the insane desire to go to school. [[Applause]] Even with regard to these situations the Government should intervene, because then we cannot be surprised if this becomes the stock of the social phenomena that we observe. We condemn every act of violence, we condemn all those who want to take advantage of this moment of weakness of our nation, but we must take our responsibilities because we have witnessed and are witnessing absurdities that are no longer tolerable. Speaking of school, President Conte, do you know that the wheelchairs that have been spoken of for two months in schools that are closed are coming now? What has been done not to send pupils, teachers, families, ATA personnel to the massacre? Nothing, President Conte, has been done. The only thing you insist on going forward, despite the epidemic you say is a very serious threat, is an extraordinary contest that there was no need for, given our precarious staff that has been holding the school's fate for years. [[Applause]] So for public transport, President Conte: do you know that in our country they are inadequate to the extreme even in ordinary times? And when do you think about it? When you wanted to think about this, not to mention the help and the refreshments that are insufficient. After the full failure of Tridicus, today you bring the solution that Brothers of Italy had advanced months ago, that of the direct refreshment on the current accounts. As you can see, dear President Count, Brothers of Italy has given you collaboration even when you did not want it, but remember that you must assume responsibility first of all. We would have expected a gesture of humility from the government. Have the conviction that Brothers of Italy does not need invitations to do their part towards our nation, because when it comes to Italy we feel in real permanent service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u30	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I say this without irony, Mr Conte, because it is good that you have come to present the content of a DCCM for once, first of all, to the representatives of the people who did not have to listen to it on television. I believe and hope that this is the beginning of a practice. I have heard, during the previous debate, some of my colleagues in the majority evoke the hardest hour and have sought in his words traces of this moment. In fact, President Conte, you did not say this but we are in a situation of great difficulty, because if you do what it takes to defeat the virus you risk social revolt, if you do what it takes to keep our economy up, you risk the health crisis. Beyond the formulas, the drop point is not easy. I would just like to say three things in this speech: two to you, Mr Conte, and one to the friends of the centre-right. The first one. You have so far sought self-sufficiency as a majority. And you repeated this choice by defending the DPCM as an ordinary working method: I heard what you said in the speech of the previous Senate session you attended. President Conte, I think this is a mistake. You know that we are faced with a source of secondary law. It was inevitable at the time of the jump in the dark, but in a situation in which we have to live with the virus for a long time, the decree-law - which was provided for in our Constitution for cases of necessity and urgency - would have allowed a confrontation with Parliament and the opposition in much easier terms. We are now in a new and difficult situation. Please do not give the impression, like the bad capitalists, that you want to privatise profits and socialize losses. If there is a proposal for cooperation with the opposition, it must be clear and not a general appeal. You can't stop at the directing booths, or at the tables: they're too vague formulas. You know much better than I do what is at stake in this crisis. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you a second question. From what he told us, we need doctors and nurses at a fixed time; we need a plan to defend frailties, beyond the easy exorcisms through the criticism of a bad tweet; we need a widespread medicine and territory. I have heard your economic considerations about the ESM and I must tell you that they are not at all unfounded, but I ask you whether, in the face of all this, a fund dedicated exclusively to health expenditure can be set aside for eminently political reasons and balances within your Government. President Conte, these are not my considerations but of Minister Gualtieri at the feast of the daily newspaper "Il Foglio" where you also spoke. Today there is a motion for a resolution by Senator Bonino and Mr Richetti that I would have voted for and signed, but it will be prevented by the previous adoption of the majority motion for a resolution. Can this be continued? Or, if we are at a serious time, is it necessary for the majority to set a good example? The third thing I would like to say to my colleagues in the centre-right. I think it is a mistake to refer the proposals for cooperation on this subject to the sender without seeing the papers. I believe this to be a mistake, although I declare it with absolute clarity and determination... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . . to remain in the ranks of the opposition and to have nothing in common with this Government. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and friends of the centre-right, when the time is dark, forms of cooperation are always found: they have been found after Caporetto, democratic nationalists have done so; they have been found after 8 September with the National Liberation Committee; they have been at the time of terrorism. The men of opposition who had the courage to practice this ground have prepared themselves in this way to take the reins of the government when it came to them. Let's think this through. We ask for seriousness; we have the capacity to understand whether we are faced with serious proposals or mockery, but let us not go behind a no foreword.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u31	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank President Conte for coming to Parliament very quickly at a very sensitive time for our country to listen to Parliament's suggestions and then complete the DPCM. We are faced with what is called the second wave of contagion; there is no country in Europe or in the world that has not been surprised by the outbreak of the virus. We knew that with the resumption of the activities, the reopening of the schools and the increase of the mobility the contagions could go back, but it worries the increasing number of the contagions and the admissions as well as the consequent pressure on the hospitals, as well as on a system of territorial medicine still too fragile, that weighs largely on the shoulders of doctors of general medicine, pediatricians and public hygiene departments, where too few are the units of crisis (USC) activated at national level. The government has been accused of clapping on its laurels and of doing nothing to prevent this second wave. In fact, the government did immediately what had to be done: to allocate resources for recruitment of medical personnel; to increase posts in intensive care; to increase tracking and testing. Since February, €7 billion has been made available for health care, but it is the institutional chain that had to be set in motion in a synergistic way in order to carry out the actions provided for by the measures. The question is: what happened at regional level at the same time as the Government gave general guidance and gave the framework within which to move with various guidelines? You can't be federalists every other day or when it's convenient. The restrictions taken with the previous DPCM were not an indiscriminate punishment for certain categories of activity but a necessary and painful choice to protect public health and, consequently, also the economic and social hold of the country. Until there is a vaccine, the only real weapon of defense, we can only mitigate and contain the epidemic by anticipating the virus's moves. However, we must ensure that the pandemic does not prejudice the right to care for patients with other diseases (chronics, oncology, cardiovascular disease) and prevention screening. In addition, let us not discriminate and not forget the attention to assisted health homes and day centres for the disabled. It is okay to have signed the agreement with the doctors for the possibility of making rapid swabs, but we still need to fill the serious lack of staff. True, 34,000 people have been employed, but the increase in intensive treatment has lowered the percentage of staff per bedroom. We still need more doctors and more specialists. These are difficult days for the social and economic estate of our country. We need to reassure, tell words of truth and inform citizens about the reasons for the decisions that are being taken. We have a duty to recognise that some mistakes have been made, but giving the Government every responsibility is not the solution to get out of this situation: everyone, for his part, must do their part. We need more funds, and it is good that we should finally talk about ESM in the resolution scheme. Parliament will make its assessment and then decide everything together; we will all come out together: President Mattarella reminded us once again with his words. Collective responsibility is needed; only a chorus in tune with our institutions and their activities can lead us to overcome this difficulty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u34	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, I realize that perhaps the time of humiliation for us at Forza Italia is over. [[Applause]] President Conte, we have seen you show up here in this House before, of course, doing press conferences: this is already a great success and an important thing. We see, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you are also on the path to recovery from this form of 'aware announcement' which has accompanied you for too many months. [[Applause]] We are a responsible political force - President Conte, if you will listen to me I would be so grateful - and we have made the balance in our proposals an important battle. We are certainly defending the values and principles of freedom that animate a large part of the Italian people. But we tell you immediately that we are not willing to participate in any directing booth; we are not willing to make agreements under the table; we are not available for exchanges of armchairs. I want this to be the central point of my speech. [[Applause]] Different is the reasoning that I will make in the end. You see, President Conte, we certainly owe it to those who are no longer there, we owe it to their memory, we owe it to people who are sick at the moment; we must give hope to those who live in fear. Above all, we must give those who have lost loved ones the opportunity to know that it was not all in vain. But there's something different. We cannot forget the productive categories, those who have been abandoned by politics: the self-employed, VAT matches, traders, craftsmen, all those who have invested since May, when she, Mr. Conte, with a sort of trick or treat, first gave them the cake ('open even in May) and then the joke, after they had spent tens of thousands of euros: I remind her that more than 50 percent had invested 25,000 euros, between restaurateurs and baristas in order to reopen the shops. Well, they are now in a state of great difficulty, even though it was those who had given provisions, within their own premises, to check, to check, to sanitize. If, then, these garrisons have been removed, we are highly concerned. We have the drama of many activities that close and that do not know if they will be reopened. So the first thing we tell you is this: we follow a principle, that is, we have to compensate; it does not close unless we compensate. You have to spend in productive spending, you have to do positive debt, good debt as Mario Draghi said, and instead we are faced with a situation where you have spent absolutely hallucinating, inexplicable: from wheelchairs to scooter bonuses. There is no economic policy in this way. [[Applause.]] Businesses need to return to their usefulness. We therefore need a reform, and that is what we invite you to think about, Mr Conte, a reform that reduces taxes, that does not increase the bills as it has happened lately, that recirculates the cash, not limited to 1,000 euros; that there is less bureaucracy and more infrastructure. Mr President of the Council of Ministers, we will not be able to endure a second lockdown, we know that, and I warn you. Keep in mind that, as our Group had pointed out to you with many acts, it was absolutely predictable what would happen, namely that they would naturally open schools, that there would be problems with the elderly, that we would have problems with transport. All this has happened on time, even though we have shown you the way. But you have gone off course, Mr Conte, and that is why we ask you to listen to us at least at the budgetary session. Do not be a man only in command, listen to the problems of the Italian people, of the enterprises, of those who have great difficulties. Here it is not a question of saying "everything will be fine" because the risk is that everything will go to the auction, especially for those who have made investments and have found themselves in great difficulty. In conclusion, if you had listened to us we would not have found ourselves at this point. Mr President, we will continue to do our duty responsibly, we will continue to point out the right path to economic recovery and to protect the Italian people from what is happening, but please listen to our proposals and do not arrogantly play the part of the one who believes he can solve the problems alone without listening to the reasons of the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator Borgonzoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u36	Mr President, I would have liked to have started my speech in a different way, but I do not think that we can pretend that we have not heard a number of statements in recent days from representatives of the Government and the majority who have tried to make the citizens believe that compensation would come that will not actually come. It has also been mentioned today on television and I have heard so many members of the majority talking about 200 percent or 400 percent, making people believe that this percentage is not the increase of that misery that has arrived - to those who have arrived - of the ristors of the previous decree but that these percentages were actually related to the collections. I want to give an example, so maybe we all understand each other. We think of a administration activity, which has revenues up to 400,000 euros; with the previous decree it received 2,500 euros (if it had them), while with the measures we are talking about it will have 5,000 euros (if it will have them). We all know that it's probably not enough to pay rent and bills for that business. [[Applause]] And, without shame, pretend you don't know that maybe these entrepreneurs will need to anticipate the integration fund, which you haven't given, since there are people who are still waiting for the integration fund in May. [[Applause]] Then there is a minister, like Franceschini, who yesterday wondered why, when the theatres and cinemas were closed in February or March there was no such wave of protests. I am almost embarrassed to answer the question that has been asked: it is a question that even a elementary school child would be able to answer without difficulty. Why? In March we didn't know anything about what was going on: at least we did, because you knew it and in so many things you were wrong. [[Applause]] Now people would expect to have different answers. After following the rules given by you, after spending the money to get in line, as you asked, the people of the theatres and the halls (since of 350,000 spectators who were in the halls talked about a single contagion) would have expected to be able to leave their services because they are safe places! [[Applause]] They certainly did not expect to be closed or to be left with a misery, which will kill the many theatre and music companies, the many workers, who will not be able to survive what you are doing. Even today we have heard that we also want to close the museums, the archaeological areas and block the exhibitions: honestly I don't think it takes a great scientist to understand that it is safe places and that it is easy to quota the entrances, if you want. So you will bring the entire sector of our country's culture to its knees in a definitive way. [[Applause]] , which I want to remember generates, with the induced, 17% of the country's GDP. I think it's pointless being here to explain why these are safe places. I think that Minister Franceschini, like all of you and President Conte, has been explained by all sides and by all that these are safe places. So I ask you to explain why you've been so angry with culture and sport: this is a question that you have to explain and you have to give it to the whole country. [[Applause]] , since there are no scientific data that speak of these places as places at risk. So, that's an explanation you have to give! You must then start to intervene, since I think you will move forward (now there is this new phase of dialogue but I think and fear that it will be very limited compared to the proposals and ideas you already have in mind). So I want to suggest two or three ideas on how to try to protect this world. The first, which concerns the theatres we are already setting up and carrying out in many municipalities run by mayors of the League or the center-right (I have seen that now there are also some municipalities not of the center-right area that is taking the same initiative) and there is need for help from the Government. I am referring to the proposal to run the shows in the theatres and stream them. This does not mean that the government can wash its hands because it wants to make a platform that defines "simil Netflix." Actors and workers must be paid, so a fund must be made for these municipalities. [[Applause]] If we have Municipalities like Potenza, Novara, Monza, Piacenza, Verona and Genoa that will go ahead and Regions that make the bans, we need a fund from the Government. As far as restors are concerned, there must also be an end to the activities that you have not closed directly, but that will lose any income, because they are linked to all the sectors that you have closed. I can't believe you didn't think of that. [[Applause]] It is incredible that someone has to tell you that, if you close one business, probably another, even if you don't close it, will no longer be able to sell the products or give the services it offers. And when it comes to reliefs or compensations - rightly so, as my Parent Company said - let us remember that we are a state that has put so much in the guarantees (so it is obliged to ask for a loan, then it is given the guarantee), but real money in the accounts has put less than the United Kingdom, Germany and other states. It takes money. [[Applause]] You will be remembered, among many things, as a government that has closed culture, without shame. But if you shut me down now, you're gonna pay me and pay me back. You do it now! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u37	Senator Vaccaro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we entered yesterday in the ninth month of the pandemic in this 2020, practically marked, from the beginning to the end, by an enemy to be defeated, a fierce and obstinate enemy that continues to rage throughout the planet, distorting the lives of entire populations and sowing here and there fear and pain. He is the Covid-19: he is the enemy. In these days of intense debate we have forgotten too many times. We have begun to identify in the enemy the neighbor or relative, the young or the elderly, the cautious or the careless, the minimizer or the paranoid; or, quite simply, the political opponent, the mayor of the adverse color, the regional counselor used to shoot, this or that Governor, this or that Minister; or you, Mr President, who for many (maybe too many) has become a kind of bad tyrant, who enjoys taking restrictive measures on the skin of the Italians; an all too easy target of the many offenses and weird arguments that in these hours go out to many of our compatriots, much more from the belly than from the head or from the heart. Instead, it is time to remind everyone in this House and also outside: he is the enemy, the Covid-19. And it is now, Mr President, that we are all beginning to realize this and to put the bow of the boat back to him, all rowing in the same direction, starting with those in this House. Last week's decree was painful for all of us. All of us last summer went to get a coffee at the bar, grab a bite at the restaurant or get a nice sweat in the gym. We have all seen the professionalism with which thousands of our fellow citizens have worked for months. We happened to see waiters wearing gloves and masks and use products to sanitize the table, with the usual phrase of ritual: Excuse us, gentlemen, but touch us, almost as if to say: "Unfortunately, this is the situation, but we are happy, because despite this annoyance we can continue to work." Having to ask for a new terrible sacrifice to restaurateurs, cooks, waiters, bartenders and all the exterminated chains that unravel behind their commendable activities was a blow to the heart, just as it was for all those who work in the sports and entertainment sectors, who were asked for a stop almost total, an unparalleled labor. To all these compatriots must be repeated again today our most total closeness. [[Applause]] In so many - just as legitimately - they say: It is easy to express solidarity for you parliamentarians. What can you know about what it means to screw up months or years of sacrifice? These are physiological considerations, which arise from an inevitable exasperation. Well, for what it means, I can say that from personal experience I know what it means to live in work uncertainty. In the past I happened to lose sleep because I didn't know what tomorrow would give me about work, and it wasn't good nights at all. The 5 Star Movement has brought in the institutions of the simple citizens who in many cases, as in mine, have lived on their skin the difficulties and insecurities of everyday life. [[Applause]] No one like me, therefore, can understand how difficult it is for a small businessman to keep up with the refreshments or for an employee to cling to the handle of the social shock absorbers. As a Neapolitan, I also know what it's like to be in the limbo of work uncertainty in a city like mine, where everything is never as it seems and where thousands of people do four to line up lunch with dinner. Therefore, condemning, without if and without but, the violence and the taffles in the street of the past few days, I am still tuned in everything and for everything with the pain and the trouble of those honest and commendable workers who, in full respect of civil life and anti-Covid measures, have decided to make their voice heard; a voice strangled by the fear that, as representatives of the citizens, we must always keep recorded in the tapes of the mind. [[Applause]] There is no more heartbreaking thing to say to a person: "Look, today we are forced to stop you." It is an unbearable nuisance, which will increase if further restrictions occur. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the 5 Star Movement last week pushed so much, even within the government that you are chairing, to give a decisive response as quickly as possible, and that response - no one can deny it - came with the order of rest. Beyond the more than 5 billion allocated, we have recorded a change of pace decided on the procedures and the times; we have given precise guarantees to the Italians that they will be supported quickly and without making them pass through the bureaucratic forest that, too often, has accompanied campal moments of the political and administrative life of our country. This is crucial to us. Here in Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism, I know that we will have to do our utmost to make the text all the improvements necessary to extend the audience of beneficiaries and to better oil all the steps, ensuring that decisive productive sectors of our country's economy do not suffer irremediable shocks: effective responses, which will have to fit in among the many that we have already given. For the Italian economy we have produced a really impressive effort and not only in buffering the emergency. I would like to quote - for example - the 110% super bonus for energy efficiency and earthquake-proof adjustment for homes: the real shock measure of this 2020 [[Applause]] , intended - as the many experts have confirmed - to give a nerve sector such as the construction sector a sprint on a multiannual basis. We have always worked in a humble and purposeful way to assist a government that has had to make decisions that never other Executive has been called to assume in over seventy years of Republic. We will do so again this time in front of the new escalation of the virus. It will be a complex job with many implications, but we have taken the responsibility to do so as quickly as possible and here - if you will allow me, Mr President - I call in particular the opposition colleagues. Many times in this House we have witnessed debates without exception of blows on so many crucial measures in the life of the country. The beauty of democracy is that of the notorious weights and counterweights of parliamentary dialectics, the highest expression of our constitutional system, guaranteed magnificently by the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella. [[Applause]] Faced with the many dramatic circumstances that have passed through our republican history, in the parliamentary classrooms, however, it has often been possible to square up and put the good of the country before any party question or political strategy. On the weekend there was a unanimous no on the part of all minority political forces to the proposal of a cabin of direction for the emergency. Too bad: a great opportunity has been lost to send a signal to the country; a signal of unity and common sense, on the economic-political front, but above all social, precisely in the days when the level of fibrillation is so high in dozens of Italian cities. And yet, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, our hand towards you continues to hold it stubbornly tight. [[Applause]] With so many of you we meet weekly, beyond the different beliefs and sensibilities. We are sure of only one thing: even among your ranks there are many people who are able to take off their shirt of belonging and put the citizens and the country in front of everything, in such a complicated phase. Every day we feel the litany of the need for a government of national unity; first we practice here a little 'national unity. If you want to take a stretch of the road together, in an attempt to find the best solutions for citizens, you will give a gift not to President Conte or Ministers, not to colleagues of majority: you will do first of all a thing of common sense towards the many citizens who, from Ragusa going up to Sondrio, are living a really hard 2020 and with a thousand hardships. Maybe, you know, at least it could be worth it for them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u39	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Calderoli, No 2, Senator Bonino and other Senators, No 3, Senator Drago, No 4 by Senators Ciriani, Bernini and Romeo, and No 5 by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger. The lyrics are in distribution. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. I call on the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u40	Mr President, I support the motion for a resolution No 5, signed by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger. I am against the motion for a resolution. 2 and 3. I am also opposed to the motion for a resolution No 4, subject to commitments no. 12, 13, 14 and 15, with the call for a rewording of the latter: "to strengthen home care and services especially in favour of older people, the most vulnerable category." In addition to these commitments, I also welcome commitments no. 18 and 22. Finally, we propose a rewording of motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senator Calderoli. With regard to the first commitment, we ask to replace the words "to involvement" with the following: "to continue in involvement". In the second commitment we ask to replace the words "a comparison" with the following: "a continue in the comparison" The third commitment, on the other hand, is completely revised as follows: It favours the instrument of the decree-law where it is a question of introducing limits to fundamental rights and in any case to communicate promptly to Parliament every type of action taken to protect public health, in compliance with the centrality of the elective assembly and in order to promote its constant involvement; to explain in advance to the Chambers the content of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers to be adopted, in order to take account of any guidelines from the same formulated; where this is not possible for reasons of urgency related to the nature of the measures to be taken, to report to the Chambers pursuant to Article 2 (5) of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. Finally, there is a rewording of the fourth commitment, totally replaced by: "to ensure compliance with Article 72 and Article 67 of the Constitutional Charter."
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u44	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, since live television is under way, I believe that the citizens who have now tuned in have not quite understood the content of the communication just made by Mr D'Incà, because it is clearly a parliamentary practice and it is also quite complicated to get involved in our mechanisms. But I would like to point out that the Minister made a very appropriate speech: he was called upon to make judgments on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled. Usually in these cases the proposals submitted by the majority receive the approval of the Government, while those of the opposition receive a refusal. Here, today it seems to me that we can record a small, timid step forward: the Government has tried to express articulated judgments, different, opening up to dialogue with the opposition. At least I want to catch him like this and I want all of us to catch him like this. Yes, I do have a hard time, but I think - and we all know this - that it is very difficult to proceed in such a situation without the opposition being genuinely and seriously involved. Colleagues, first of all I want to say that the contradictions we are experiencing in this affair are clear to everyone. Let's talk about school, for example. We knew very well that the order of the benches with the rollers would not have been enough, if there had not been a parallel organization of the transport system; just as we know that the full-time school cannot be proposed, to diversify the crowding on the transports, when we have a rigid school system, which involves for the teaching staff and not teaching the presence in the morning and not in the afternoon. We know that the machinery in the ICU is not enough if we do not have nurses and doctors who make them work. We all know that there is a great nostalgia - and especially those who have more experience and more seniority in this House - for a historic, fantastic figure that I remember in my childhood, the so-called family doctors, the basic medicine that was always a garrison for citizens. We know today, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about swabs, tests, vaccines, but then very often for so many categories of citizens it is difficult to find vaccines and we know that testing and swabs often means receiving answers after weeks. We all know the economic consequences of what is happening: an absolute disaster for the economy. I do not believe that the proper concern of the Government and the right commitment to compensation are enough, because compensation cannot be complete; in any case, beyond the intentions, in no European country will be complete. Colleagues, this could lead to a loss of social cohesion, an increase in the gap, and in last week we had worrying signs of what can happen. In the squares, in fact, there were not only clean protests, serious protests, of decent people, of categories that used harsh language to the government, but that this Assembly must listen to, because it is the language of entrepreneurs and serious people who do their work. Next to those people there were also, in other demonstrations, criminals, a clot of groups of extreme right neo-fascist or even fringes of the autonomouss who broke down the cities and the windows and threatened and threw stones against the police. So, ladies and gentlemen, the gravity of this moment must see us all very responsibly together. However, being together means first of all understanding that the Republic is founded on the State, the Municipalities, the Regions and that we have a widespread responsibility. It is true that there is an opposition here that does not share the direction of the government, but then most of the municipalities and regions are governed by representatives of those parties that at national level are in opposition, so there is a need to articulate a 360 degree response. Colleagues, I would like to express some malaise to you: it is not possible that the tetragons of claiming competences in the management of the autonomy are then in these circumstances the first ones who would like the government to take all the decisions to avoid the negative impact of unpopular decisions. We need some consistency here! At the moment, I am representing the Group for the Autonomies, which subscribes to the motion for a majority resolution. But it is clear that autonomy either always or never applies. It is not possible that there is a game of barrel discharge between the Presidents of the Regions and the Government, just as it is necessary for the Government; where individuals have a general need, they assume responsibility without thinking of shielding themselves with the Regions, but this must apply in both directions. That is why we can also divide ourselves in this House, but in the end people will not share responsibilities; they will feel that they are common, because many govern at local level, others govern at national level; responsibility is widespread and leads us all to have to be very serious in dealing with the crisis. Barrel discharge is not allowed. I would also like to say that the Government has identified an objective mechanism, probably to prevent political decisions from being somehow the result of divisive elements, parameters anchored to variations on critical thresholds. Colleagues, I do not know if this is the ideal solution, but I know that this is now the solution that has been taken. I think, however, that as a Parliament we have the task of understanding whether today is the time to give this kind of national co-responsibility. I can only say to you that the French National Assembly Macron brought the motion on lockdown, which was adopted with 392 yes and 27 no; that is, there was a co-responsibility which went far beyond the benches of the majority: a significant part of the opposition, at a time of difficulty in the country, felt it was necessary to say that it was present. I very much appreciate my colleague Romeo: he is a serious person, with whom I often disagree, but I think he is an opposition MEP who does his duty. Today, however, I heard almost threatening tones that were completely out of place. There's nothing to threaten here, because we're all on the same train. [[Applause]] And we all have to try somehow to get to the right station because if we go to two wrong stations, we won't be able to solve any problems. I've heard different tones, Senator Romeo, allow me. I have heard - for example - the tones of Senator Quagliariello that must not be dropped because, for the first time in this House, I have listened to someone who has expressed, on his own behalf and of a component that - even for the quality of Senator Quagliariello - has a meaning and a relevance, the call for the need for national unity. President, I want to end by saying that you had to make the appeal to the opposition with greater conviction for me. This table was intended by many in Parliament. I have always said that it was the request that had to be made to the opposition and must remain as a permanent proposal of the Government, leaving the opposition also responsible for having the time to decide. I realize that it is not easy for the opposition to share, but it is an act that - in my opinion - would demonstrate the sense of responsibility and the ability to have political leadership even on the opposition's benches. That is the true meaning of Parliament. What are these debates for? They are not used to record our differences, they are not used to make a change in percentages of opinion polls that individual parties must have. These debates serve to create a common feeling about the destinies of the national community and a real and non-formal involvement. I believe that those who believe in these principles and the need to safeguard the Republic must insist on this path and then, at the end of the journey, each one will assume his own responsibilities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u47	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, today we are represented in this country by a political government chaired by President Conte; in the Regions the Presidents are directly elected by the people, they have political leadership; the mayors, in the cities, are also directly elected by the people and are political leaders. Today there is under observation, with respect to our behaviour, to our attitude to face the crisis, a political community: not a part, but a political community. If anyone thinks that someone can be blamed for choices made at different territorial levels - never as at this juncture is manifesting the importance of territorial politics and federalism of the country - and that at the end of this story there will be a political part that can profit from the deficiencies and shortcomings of the part that is governing, I think it hurts his accounts. At this very stage he is ruling an entire political community and, when the political community fails, President, the alternative is not a political part, but it is the technocracy, an idea of government in this country entrusted to technicians. Mr President, we have already experienced this political phase in the past. I remember very well, with all the good will of Dr. Fornero, what the pension reform meant for this country, even in terms of lack of attention on exodus. I remember very well what the Balduzzi law meant for this country, which today we are paying in terms of a few nurses and doctors, of less hospital garrisons that we have seen reduced at that stage. I remember very well also when we introduced the Stability Pact and, therefore, the difficulty of being able to imagine first of all an idea of the development of the country that was detached from the budgetary needs, when there was to be built... [[Comments.]] Scream more than me without a microphone. So, he's really good. There has been that political phase that we have been through and that I sincerely do not regret at all. That is why I am pleased, President of the Council, that there will finally be a discussion of the majority these days to discuss the political agenda of our country and its needs. I believe that the best Italian ruling class must take responsibility for ferrying Italy out of this emergency. I am, moreover, pleased and satisfied with your appeal to the oppositions to cooperate. Honestly, since you have made this appeal several times and in several forms, I invite you, next time, to ask them how they want to be involved, because every time you say that you will involve them a little earlier, it's not okay; if you say that you will involve them later, it's not okay; it's not okay even if you involve them during. I have the feeling that we constantly seek the pretext not to sit around a table and face together the emergencies of the country. [[Applause]] This time, however, there is the novelty: the President of the Council called you to share, with respect and difference of roles, a path in a table that sees us face the emergency and at the same time has been summoned to Parliament before writing and presenting a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. You cannot consider these two political novelties absolutely irrelevant, as you cannot imagine that nothing new has happened. I believe that something new has happened and, when I say - I said it just now and I say it again - that no one can benefit from this situation, I say it sincerely and convincingly. Salvini, you were also whistled by the restaurateurs the other day, we are no longer distinguished between majority and opposition, if we cannot find common solutions. [[Applause]] We will all be overwhelmed by a condition of difficulty, if we fail to identify paths that take us out of the economic and health difficulties in which we live. Each action, Mr President, must respond to a reaction, that is to say, to every closure that we put in the field must correspond to a refreshment, an economic support to all the activities that are damaged by this condition. It is not a refreshment that can only be proportionate to the closing time. I believe - as has been pointed out several times - that there are many economic activities that, while remaining open constantly and having had no reduction in time, have suffered economic damage. The closures must be the offspring of clear scientific data. And I have to say that this is another important novelty that I am verifying in this sitting. The faldon in my hand, which is the presentation by the Ministry of Health, of the possible scenarios, puts us in front of the possibility, finally, to have precise prescriptions according to the conditions in which the country is located. And we have always asked for this, and we must attest to this belief. I remind you that a few weeks ago the President of the Council and some Presidents of the Region were heard by a prosecutor of the Republic precisely because of the closures (or lack of closures) put in place for Vo' and Codogno, precisely because it is imagined that some actions must correspond to the prescriptions to be put in place from the scientific point of view. Again, who takes the responsibility not to identify one scenario or another, faced with a timely prescription put in place by the Ministry of Health? I believe that it is necessary, President, political unity to unite the country, which is objectively divided between the guarantees that can - as it were - afford health care and the unsavoury ones that are more concerned about dying of hunger. We cannot afford this sadistic derby, President, so political unity also serves to build this unity in the country. I'm not worried about today's unrest. Few have exploited the anger of decent people who peacefully protest to create social disorder. In this regard, we wish to express our solidarity with the forces of order and with the journalists who have been affected. [[Applause]] The problem is not now that everything is anesthetized, Mr President, by the rest of the day, by the Cassa Integrazione and by the blockade of dismissals. The problem will arise when this anesthesia is no longer there; when we have to restart our economy because conditions have been created for a real restart, and we hope soon. The moment for which I am really concerned, about the reactions of our country, is that. That is why we have to prepare ourselves for this; we have to plan well the use of Community resources; that is why we have to use the ESM and I will never tire of saying it. [[Applause]] Health issues, transport issues, must be addressed. My heart is crying, President, to see 35,000 tourist buses of all sizes available. Tell that to Minister De Micheli who says they are too big buses for our historic centers. He compared himself with the companies of the tourist buses in Italy, because he would notice that they are of all sizes, and could be used, at the same time as the reduction of 50% of the capacity of public transport, to promote mobility in our cities. The climate, Mr President, is objectively different from that of the past. Beyond the disorders that - as I said just now - are drugged, just as our economy is anesthetized, there is no longer that climate from "everything will be fine" that they detect before. There are no more sheets hanging from the balconies, the citizens are no longer fully supporting our action. I have read - as you have read - Muti, Vecchioni, Baricco, Bottura, expressions of the professions of culture that are concerned and also critical of our measures. I believe that we are in harmony with that world and with the country, even if it is difficult at this stage. I conclude because I believe that political unity, finally, also means unity between the weakest and strongest people in our country. I read - as you all did - the tweet of the president of Liguria Toti. I am concerned because it is within a context of political lines practiced in some countries of the world - that in the United States with Trump, or in Great Britain with Johnson - where the degree of importance of a person in society is measured according to the production he manages to guarantee. It's an aberrant idea of society. [[Applause]] It is an idea from which we must escape and stay away light years, because in this way the weakest sections of society are united in the uselessness: the elderly for their pensions and because they make us keep the country closed; people with disabilities with their disability cheques that represent a cost for the country; as open schools are a cost for the country; therefore they are united in the utility of young people, old people and people with disabilities. We're not moving on with this idea. President, we must guarantee political cohesion to our country, which corresponds to social cohesion, which is indispensable at this stage of difficulty and can lead us to relaunch our Italy and create the conditions for its rebirth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u50	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, Mr Conte, ladies and gentlemen, to begin my speech, even in the light of what has been heard so far, I have brought with me a large package of papers representing the whole - as you see very often - of motions, interrogations, questions, resolutions and amendments that the Brothers of Italy Group, from February to today, has deposited on the Covid emergency. Well, there is not one of these parliamentary acts that the Government has done. So when you ask us why we don't want to cooperate, we say we don't cooperate because we've tried it dozens and dozens of times and you've always said no. The theme of the day seems to be the renewed will of the majority to offer a collaborative side to the oppositions. Well, we believe that this proposal is absolutely late, insincere and instrumental; the facts show this. Now that the damage has been done and the months have been wasted, you see that there is an opposition that represents at least 50% of the citizens. President Conte, it is a little too late, but we will come back to this. Mr President, I would like to say to you and to those who listen to us something, even though you are busy talking to Mr D'Incà. Clearly, this is the spirit of cooperation that it interprets against oppositions, but it does not matter. We go on because someone listens to us. The concern we have when I speak and when my colleagues from the Brothers of Italy Group take part is whether the words we will use are able to fully and adequately express the fear, thoughts and emotions of our voters and the citizens who vote and look at us. President, these days we have been in our electoral colleges, in our territories and in our regions and I want to tell you with great sincerity that, despite the dramatic climate of these days also in this House and the seriousness of the moment, the language we should use is that of anger and indignation because it is what we breathe in the Italian squares. [[Applause.]] In those neat and absolutely peaceful squares that have seen tens and tens of thousands of good people parade I listened and saw with my eyes accents of true fear, of true despair and despair. I saw a restaurateur asking me to tell you if it was possible to have hope for himself, his family, his business and his employees. President, there is a new accent in the despair of these days that arises from the feeling of betrayed trust. You, in fact, who have self-defined the lawyer of the Italian people, not more than ten days ago told the entrepreneurs of the trade, catering, the managers of the gyms and swimming pools and many others that there would be protocols to be respected more and more strict and that if they had not observed them, they would have had to close. These entrepreneurs invested money and money, they respected his prescriptions at the millimeter and then one morning, a few days later, they woke up with the good news that they had to close immediately. President, you understand, as I understand, that if people once believed you the second time, they won't believe you anymore. What snakes between citizens is a sort of social despair that arises from the fact that being loyal to duty, correct, serious and honest does not pay with this Government. Sacrifices are accepted if they are useful - and we have made so many - but if they are useless they become an injustice. [[Applause.]] And you of injustice, unfortunately, have perpetrated many against the Italians in recent months. And the latter are no longer willing, as was the case in March, April and May, to tolerate your mistakes. These people are convinced that the situation in which we live had to be managed in a better and more appropriate way to the severity of the choices and do not want to pay for the mistakes you have made. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in those squares, but generally quite everywhere speaking with people, it is up to the government to determine once and for all what the criteria of legality and security are. And if we are to talk about refunds, since the Italian colleague Viva has just mentioned the spirit, which the opposition should welcome, of collaboration, we immediately begin to establish that the 5 billion you have allocated for the decree refunds are absolutely insufficient. Are we going to say a final word about this, President Conte? Is there a willingness on the part of the Government to take note that these resources are not enough? Let us begin from this the confrontation between majority and opposition, not from the fine words that leave the time they find. Let's see if tomorrow or the day after tomorrow there will be adequate resources for people who live in despair and who do not know what fish to catch because you, from morning to night, have changed the rules of the game. I tell you this because you understand, as we understand, that at this time politics - especially your policy - no longer has the authority to ask for sacrifices and sacrifices; you are no longer credible. This is because you reap what you have sown in so many months of pandemic management done by yourself, stubbornly, without listening to anyone's advice. Mr. President Conte, representatives of the Government, in April we of Brothers of Italy in this same Chamber recognized, I believe with intellectual honesty, that you faced an unknown pandemic, an enemy that no one had seen before and that therefore some errors were certainly justified. But we also asked her for a national contingency plan, as all serious countries in the world do. Instead you did exactly the opposite and you started by demolishing Civil Protection: there is no longer civil protection, but an extraordinary commissioner who no one has understood what powers he has in the field of emergencies; he certainly knows very well the political secretariats of the center-left parties. We've seen the results. The national emergency plan served to achieve some simple and necessary things. First of all - I tell you once again - to establish that there is only one who commands; one and only one; one who speaks. Not the carnival that we have been living in these months and weeks, in which everyone was talking and no one was listening, everyone was in charge and no one was obeying. Everything is announced and nothing happens: it is chaos and sometimes even the fair of vanities. We witnessed the fact that the ruling class of this country, not only political in truth, took advantage of the pandemic and the Covid to cut out a small piece of notoriety at a low price, instead of worrying, each one for his own responsibility, to avoid the car going to bang. I have heard from some members of the majority, but opposition... but Europe as a whole... Let's start by saying that if we think of saving our country looking at the troubles of our neighbors we do not go far, also because those countries, unfortunately for us, have economic conditions that we dream of. Oppositions have done their duty and their job, and I think they have done it well. But there were no oppositions to Palazzo Chigi, to Civil Protection, to the Ministry of Health, to the Higher Institute of Health, to the Technical and Scientific Committee, to the Commissioner's structure. But there were your men, Mr. Conte; there were your ministers. [[Applause]] And since January - from 29 January, to be exact - you have requested, demanded and obtained from Parliament a decree to have the state of emergency and extraordinary powers. Mr President, when you invoke and obtain full powers, you derive full and total responsibility, which you cannot put on anyone's shoulders, because they belong entirely to you and your Government. So, in this difficult, complicated, dramatic situation - we know how serious it is - we want to tell you our opinion openly: we believe that you have failed. He failed. [[Applause.]] And we tell him without particular satisfaction because we fear that the failure of his government will bring with it the failure of this country which, unfortunately, does not deserve it. And if you failed on the pandemic, you also failed on a thousand other sensitive and strategic issues for this country. The time available to me is over; I will just make a quick reference to foreign policy, to industrial policy - Whirlpool, to name one - to immigration policy: you have made fun of us. When we said that with the barchini the terrorists arrived, once the Italian ports closed... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] There are some hidden in our cities [[Applause]] But it seems that this does not particularly disturb Minister Lamorgese, who seems busy doing something else. I conclude, starting from the beginning, starting from this voluminous package of our proposals that have always been unheard. If the majority and the government are looking for a real place of confrontation (and not for fake), a place of responsibility, we say that this place already exists and is called the Parliament of the Republic. Here we are, here you will still find us with our proposals for the good of Italy, without asking anything in return. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u53	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all thanks to you, President-in-Office of the Council, for the new political choice you have made. Some Members of the minority have also taken it, I would like to stress it: it is the first time that you have come to the parliamentary classrooms for a discussion and to discuss before presenting and signing the DPCM. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it was a request made several times by oppositions. You made another political choice, Mr Conte: to ask Parliament to vote. That too is an important and positive choice. Dear colleagues from the majority and the opposition, we can and could make proposals here on what to do today. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We have to insist. The government must insist and give further signals in order to be able to build a level of dialogue that is not between deaf people. The situation is really very serious, and there is now no room to reiterate each other's positions. And this applies to all institutional levels, to all political forces, to the entire ruling class, beyond the judgments that can be made about the months behind us. Was everything done okay? No. Everything wasn't done well. But, be careful, this applies to the different institutional levels. Of course, there are problems, but, colleagues, we cannot ignore, we cannot have a subjectivistic, Ptolemaic vision: all over Europe, all over the world, the virulence of the virus has put in crisis and in difficulties various processes. Yes or no? Yeah, intellectual honesty. It is very good that everyone's positions on these five months are maintained, but now we have to ask ourselves what we have to do and what choices we have to make for the country. That is what we must all say to Italian citizens. I would like to remind you that there is a document. We are asking for transparency, it is right to do so and it is right to ask for all the data and all the elements that lead to decisions. Colleagues, there is a document, absent from scientific institutions and not only from the Higher Institute of Health, shared with the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, which used competences from universities and which indicates a way. This document includes four scenarios and states exactly what needs to be done and what choices must be made in relation to these forecasts. The document sets out a methodology and, on the basis of epidemiological data and the maintenance of the health system, also defines the choices to be made. I would therefore like to understand whether this document is shared and whether it can be the basis on which we discuss and take decisions. It is not, in fact, a document of the majority or of the government, but a scientific basis, on which one can work. Is that the correct reference? If the answer is yes, the "what to do" is quite clear. It's not about taking responsibility for the government. As the President-in-Office of the Council rightly said, the Government fully assumes its responsibilities. [[Applause]] It is a question of deciding, here and now, in front of the citizens, what we are asking the Italian people, in relation to this complex and difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, but if I list all the situations in which safety is guaranteed, we see that it is guaranteed for everyone: for gyms, for restaurants, for everyone. However, look at the fact that lockdown is taking place, in articulated and diversified forms, throughout Europe. Will there be a reason? Will there be a ratio? I'd like to make a point. I think that the relationship with regional and territorial institutions is fundamental. It is true that in the country the exercise of responsibility is complicated and it is much easier to blame others, without assuming their responsibilities. So, ladies and gentlemen, we do not move forward. I heard a Member of Parliament sitting today in the Chamber of Deputies say that it is too easy to shut down the regions and give back to them as a central government. No, it's not! That's not the problem. It's ridiculous to reason like that! Let's say to the Italians, who listen to us: the responsibility lies with the whole Republic, with the whole Republic, with all the institutions. From this point of view, we need to make it clear - and I also ask my colleagues in the opposition - whether we agree to have a national territorial dynamic and to take account of diversity, as I think it is right, Mr President, by making it clear that the choices made, in relation to scientific data, are of everyone. But it must be equally clear that no one can afford to say, "No, I don't!" [[Applause]] Because at that point the central state uses Article 120 of the Constitution and provides for a replacement. [[Applause]] Italy is in question. I heard someone say we're a federal country. I would have wanted a federal country, but we're not a federal country. No; we are a country that in the name of a federal misunderstanding risks confusion and we must avoid confusion at all costs. I conclude by saying: be careful, there is confusion, there is social tension and there is anger. There is a risk of breaking up in our society: young-older people, protected-unprotected, public entities- VAT parties. Social fragmentation calls into question a Community vision. Question: is it of interest to you as to us, as I think it should be of interest to anyone who is political in this country, apart from the just condemnations of the violence of this week, confirming that there are people who protest because they are people who live on their own, honestly, the dramatic problems in which we find ourselves? Then we need a story. At least we need to agree on what is the vision that we give this country and what are the basic ideas, where even in the political dialectic we can save this country and give it a perspective. There are so many things to do, but responsibility is the first question. I just want to say, Mr President, three very quick things: we need to strengthen the recruitment of medical and nursing staff. We hire second and third year residents, because we don't have doctors. We can put on ventilators and ventilators, but if we don't put on doctors and nurses, we won't solve it. [[Applause]] In the territory it is necessary to do - I insist, President - the houses of health, even temporary, where all general medical professionals and other professionals of the system work and take care of the patient of Covid in order to prevent him from going to the First Aid and in the departments. [[Applause]] I say one last thing and I have really finished: my colleagues in the opposition, I agree that we must first of all give cover and perhaps it will also be time to find an answer with a single general shock absorber. I would like it to be clear that it is also a priority for us to help VAT consignments and small and medium-sized enterprises which are a strategic problem in this country. [[Applause]] We don't just look at the protected, but we have a challenge: let's get to work. Isn't the directing booth okay? Call it whatever you want. As long as we work together with opposition to give this country a future. It takes a sense of national function that majority and opposition must be able to carry on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u56	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, authoritative colleagues, I would like to thank President Conte for his presence in this Chamber, which changes the paradigm, because we wished and strongly requested the involvement of Parliament and you wanted this involvement. He asked for this extraordinary session: as you can see, the senators are almost all present. We want to make a full contribution to this. Our motion for a resolution and that of the oppositions are very serious parliamentary documents. We hope that the government will take this into account when writing the DPCM. This is a very important step from our point of view. Very important because ours is a parliamentary Republic; very important because Parliament represents the whole nation and all the Italian people. We're satisfied, let's keep it that way. Don't worry, Mr President-in-Office, if there are any other requests for extraordinary sittings, even on non-parliamentary days, because we are able - we have shown this - to respond punctually and with willingness, in the interests of our country. Thanks also for taking another step that the Democratic Party has asked forcefully: that of a so-called directing booth, a moment of involvement of majority and opposition, a moment of knowledge, deepening and confrontation. He did so in the proper manner, asking the Presidents of the House and the Senate to give an answer and to formulate a hypothesis, to hear the parliamentary groups: that it is the Conference of the Leaders, that it is a special Commission, that it is any instrument, provided that we get to have a greater involvement of the oppositions. I believe that the Government and the majority have a duty to do everything in their power to engage; which does not mean opening up to a different Government, widening the Government, widening the majority, but means a fair, correct, concrete relationship of confrontation between the opposition forces and those forces of majority. I am convinced that the best thing for the country today is a government like ours, a democratic, reformist and progressive government. However, I believe that we have the duty of a serious confrontation with the conservative oppositions of the country, also because this confrontation, despite being denied by some colleagues, is constantly and continuously in place in the Conference of the Regions. I remember that fifteen Regions are at the head of the center-right; the comparison there is, a comparison of ideas also different. Then there is institutional cooperation, which must remain. Sometimes we find it difficult to understand the true position of some political forces, because the Presidents of the Region behave in a way, they ask for things, they make measures even more advanced and tightening than those of the Government, and then in Parliament we find instead the anthem to individual freedom. I am historically a great advocate and I have maximum respect for individual freedom, both with the "L" and with the "I" capital, Mr President. However, I believe that at this stage of emergency the Government and Parliament absolutely have a duty to protect freedom, to safeguard the health of all citizens and therefore public health and to do so in the best possible way and with all possible instruments, in regulatory, regulatory and administrative terms, to protect the work, the undertaking and freedom also in the economic world. It is not an easy game and definitely needs constant updates. We are also ready to deal with different measures, because the numbers are constantly changing (we have already asked him); as well as we are ready to give an address for a new DPCM restrictive due to the numbers that are emerging in almost all our national territory. We are happy that there is the possibility of having different levels, from the general national level to more stringent situations in some territorial areas; we are also certain that the Government will be equally swift in restoring margins of freedom when numbers and public health allow us to do so, because that is obviously our top priority. We sacrifice ourselves today, we do it with great determination, we do it in the immediacy of the need, as it has been understood. But we are equally sure that the government, when it can, will again be ready to make the measures that will allow us to be part of a normal social life. Mr President, we have tabled a motion for a resolution which I think is extremely positive, useful, which can indicate very serious guidelines. On health issues we have all made an effort together, the whole majority has done so. As investments in the health world serve, in machinery, in infrastructure, in technology, in personnel, in territorial organization, it is right to address the issue of resources. But since I'm not used to ideological dogmas, I'm willing to talk to the government and other political forces to find out where to find financial resources. The ESM seems to me to be a normal, logical source of funding, but I am willing to compare myself to see if there are others, with less conditions and with as much immediacy, so that we can deal with the immediate interventions that are needed for our health. Let me conclude, Mr President, by talking about another subject which is very, very close to our heart: that of the school. School is a primary asset. School is the future of our country. School is the link between the past, the present and the future. We know it's very painful when we decide to close a school, so we don't spend words lightly. With this DPCM we ask you to be more rigorous about high schools, where distance learning is simpler; we also ask you to consider, only when the numbers do not give you alternative, to close primary schools and childhood schools, knowing that, as soon as the conditions for reopening them, you must immediately do so. We would like not one of these schools to be closed; perhaps not... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . . It must be ready and it knows that it has our support, that in order to further reduce the mobility of citizens we are also ready to close schools, but it is the last ratio and their reopening will be the first intervention as soon as the numbers allow us to. Mr President, these are difficult and complicated hours for the government and Parliament; they are complicated especially for the country, for our fellow citizens, who see themselves compressing their individual freedoms, who cannot move freely anymore, who cannot have access to public transport as they did before, because we ask them to reduce the numbers allowed within them. We demand responsibility for oppositions, regions, municipalities and provinces. We will do our part; we know that the Government is able to play its part and can count on a Parliament which I hope will be more cohesive from now on. I appeal: I hope to be surprised by Senator Salvini's speech and tomorrow's press conference. I hope that there will be an appreciation for the constructive attitude that has been expressed today by the Government and that we will marry in full. Senator Salvini, surprises us: the country needs a united ruling class, which looks to the future and believes in Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u59	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we welcome the fact that you have come here on the occasion of the 23rd decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, before and not after, or only at a press conference. [[Applause]] Better than the other times. We really appreciate it. We see the difference: it is a step forward. However, we note that this is not the instrument to be used to limit the freedoms that the Constitution itself says can, yes, be limited, but only by law. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is not law, it is not a decree-law: the Constitution says so so that the clearer one cannot. [[Applause]] We also appreciate your offer of collaboration in the form, because it sounds good, but you have to cooperate on the concrete things. We can cooperate, but Parliament is not a consultative body, it is not one of the hundred task forces (in fact it is now even less numerous than its task forces); it is the place where we vote. So, if you come here and propose general rules, how can we take action seriously? For this reason the Constitution states that in case of necessity and urgency a decree-law is issued, which meanwhile passes the visa of the President of the Republic and then is examined in Parliament, where changes can be proposed on every single point, do not generally vote on a blank trust. [[Applause]] You, in fact, told us some interesting things too, but not what the parameters will be to go to one of these three bands; you did not tell us how many will be the contagions or the index of contagion; you did not tell us what will happen in the three bands; you did not tell us at what time this total limitation of the movements will trigger; you did not tell us when the compensation will come for all the categories that are affected to death, or at least with serious damage, from these measures. [[Applause]] Things have to go together, you can't say: today I'll close you after you've done the shopping to fix yourself and then we see, maybe soon something will come with a decree. He didn't tell us how long the kids will have to stay home from the schools; he didn't tell us what the remedies will be for the many families who are not able to follow the teaching at a distance, because they don't have a device for every child, for every boy who goes to school or even have no cover in their area: there are not only the centers of the cities, there are not only the areas with limited traffic (ZTL). That is why we want to vote on the draft law, on the decree-laws, not on vague intentions, because we want everyone to be able and responsible for what he votes and also for what he votes against. We cannot therefore vote for confidence based on the following principle: give me full powers to make a decree once again, which is not provided for anywhere in the Constitution in this form, and then you will see. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we cannot give you full powers, because you have not made good use of them; it would be a long time to list the shortcomings, but there have been resounding delays (for example, Commissioner Arcuri's ban came only in October to find the necessary equipment for intensive treatment). This in October, but you declared the state of emergency on January 31st and we had asked the day before. [[Applause]] We've seen things that we'll probably have to look into, like that famous almost no autopsy. If the autopsies had been done right from the start, it would have been possible to practice the right therapies immediately, without waiting for months and weeks, in which unfortunately the right ones have not been made, because it could not have been understood exactly what happened in the lungs of the sick. There were tons of masks given to China: it was a very noble gesture, but we didn't have those for our doctors in hospitals and for basic doctors! [[Applause]] Mr. Count, collaboration is also prevented when you issue a decree-law - the norm provided for in the Constitution - of 500 pages, which is an obstacle for its size and also for the difficulty of dialogue within the majority of government (in which there is already much to quarrel between the various subjects). So it happens that we go to the Commission, we take a summary examination and we reject virtually all the opposition's proposals; then we go to the House, we put trust in it, and there is practically no such thing in the other House, because there is only confidence. That is why strange rules come out, perhaps with some personal favours (on which I am not returning now), but I would like to remind you that there is also a question about the question of the tourist tax which, by chance, favours a person close to you. You don't answer that. [[Applause]] We must remember, then, that the Government has so far refused to cooperate, expressing its opposition to all our proposals, both those tabled with amendments and those tabled in the resolutions, as is the case this evening. Today we acknowledge the Government as a whole that, through Minister D'Incà, has expressed a favourable opinion on some of our proposals; a little late, but better late than never. However, if these proposals had been accepted, examined and put into practice before, many things would not be as bad as they are now. I would remind you that we have put forward many proposals. We collaborated by voting the 100 billion deviation in three different tranches; we had proposed to vote on them immediately, we wanted to give you so much confidence that we immediately voted on the 100 billion and not one piece at a time. The first time, you proposed 3.5 billion and we had reached 100 billion; we had spoken immediately of 100 billion. We have asked for planning because it is necessary, we cannot reach the last moment both with regard to the structures of the State, which must implement what you decide, and with regard to citizens, businesses, traders, professionals and all those who have activities, who cannot move forward with rules that do not make us even sure what can be done tomorrow morning. We asked to strengthen the intensive therapies, remembering that Arcuri raced in October. We have asked for the strengthening of home care and to put the basic doctors in a position to exercise the garrison on the territory, which they generally do for other things, also for the Covid-19. We asked not to forget those who are not sick with Covid. [[Applause.]] On October 14, on Nature medicine, the world's most important medical journal, a study came out that said that there was an increase in deaths in Italy, apart from Covid, equal to 46 percent of the increase in deaths for Covid. In other words, every 100 deaths of Covid, there have been 46 deaths not for Covid in more than the previous years, while in other European countries there have been 20 percent, in some there has been no increase and there are statistical anomalies. I wonder if any of the hundreds of task force members have read this study. I read it, but they had to read it, too. [[Applause]] What else are they doing? [[Comments]] We asked to speed up practices to authorize new therapies, to recruit new doctors. Among other things, there is the European Stability Mechanism (ESM): that's why we ask to use it, not because we have a love for this type of instrument. [[Applause.]] If you do not want to use it, explain why you did not do all these things for medicine, which instead had to be done. We asked for immediate compensation at the same time as the measures. We have also asked for compensation for property owners, in particular for those who are the only income from real estate. There are so many elderly people who have only that income and have not been in any way compensated. We asked to pay the debts of the public administration, which had to be done much earlier. [[Applause]] In these times it happens that there are people who are forced to close, the state does not pay them, but asks them for many taxes. We have asked for a serious tax relief, a postponement and, where possible and necessary, a cancellation, because we have to plan: those who have a business, even small, must plan, cannot wait for a measure at the last moment, when in the meantime it has already closed. We have asked to limit the closures to the very effective ones. We asked to introduce vouchers. For transport, other than scooters, we asked to use private transport. [[Applause.]] We have asked for the abolition of the blue stripes and the closure of the cities in ZTL for this period. Public transport is overcrowded, but make sure that private individuals are prevented from moving, massacring them with fines. We have asked to combat immigration and to control immigrants, even from the point of view of contagions; instead, there has been a boom of new arrivals. In conclusion, Mr President, in this game we are not interested in participating in fantastic steering booths and having seats, prebende, car seats or stools somewhere; we are interested in doing the good of Italy. The comparison is not made in strange direction cabins, but here, because this is where the laws are made: says the Constitution, we are the [[Task force. (Applause.]] The Constitution says we have to do it; listen to the experts, but then make decisions in the way that the Constitution prescribes. The game is not played by throwing the ball in the stands, but it is here and in this game our team is, as always, Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u62	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is unbelievable that, on the part of the majority, there is satisfaction - I say this for those who distractedly follow, after a day's work, the debate from home - because the President-in-Office of the Council has done his job. He came to Parliament for once before going live on Facebook and TG1. [[Applause]] The constituent Fathers exult for this test of education, as if one always parked in a parking ban and, after twenty times, did it regularly and was applauded, because after twenty times he realized that he did not park in a parking ban. [[Applause]] If he made the habit of coming to Parliament before he went elsewhere, we would be grateful to him for that. What, though, is the real situation at 9 p.m. on November 2nd? I've called a few regional governors now, not to be disproved. Collaboration, listening, sharing. It is on the shoulders of the governors and mayors that the measures you have taken should fall, that we read on the Internet sites like the citizens, who are wondering, on Monday evening, whether or not the next day they will work, whether they will take the bus, if, having to go for work from Milan to Potenza, they can make it go or maybe Wednesday they will be held in Potenza, because they will not be able to return to Milan. It would be thought that everything was planned, but at 9 p.m. on Monday night, a few hours before the eventual closure of schools, shops, factories, cities or regions, nobody knows anything, because you didn't deign to tell anyone anything. [[Applause]] Please explain to me if this is a way forward, but I also ask the friends of the majority: do you have a business? Could you plan your business, not knowing what happens on Monday night on Wednesday morning? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is not shared; this is the mistake you made eight months ago, but then it could have been granted (let's return to early March) after eight months not. To err is human and everyone is wrong, then they apologize, but persevering on the skin of Italians would be diabolical. What have you been doing for six months to avoid this mess? [[Applause]] What did you do this summer? Tomorrow there is one of these answers, because in the morning thousands of Italians know with which idea and priority they will rise? Tomorrow is the famous click day to get the contribution for electric scooters. Tomorrow, with half of Italy pending on key topics such as school, health and work, you have confirmed the click day for bicycles and electric scooters. If, instead of taking care of scooters, you had taken care of buses and metropolitans, you would have done a service to the Italians. [[Applause]] Tomorrow afternoon the House deals with the law on homotransphobia and gender teaching in schools, another issue of fundamental importance for this country and for our schools, for our children and for our teachers. [[Applause]] Today, in many Italian schools, wheelchairs have arrived. It was long-awaited news, too bad you're about to close those schools with wheelchairs. You were talking about France, Germany and the United Kingdom, but do you know what the difference is? Those countries do not sail on sight day by day and schools keep them open, because they care about the health and moral, cultural, social and affective growth of their children. [[Applause.]] [[Comments]] An hour ago, Mr President-in-Office of the Council (I do not see the Minister of the Interior among the benches of the Government), another hundred immigrants landed in Lampedusa. [[Applause. Protests]] A spontaneous reflection arises to all Italians, of Right and Left, politicians and apolitics, milanists, Interstists and Juventus: a government that is preparing to close schools, houses, offices and shops could not close the ports to the landing of thousands of illegals? Is it hard to guess? [[Applause]] It's not hard. We did. You did, even if you sent me to trial. She did, too. And those in the benches of the majority howl and smile think of the drama that France experienced a few days ago, before howling and smiling. [[Applause.]] [[Comments]] As far as taxes and taxes are concerned, tax deadlines are confirmed in November. I wonder if you live on planet Earth or on Mars. You have postponed by two months, after pressing the League and the center-right, 9 million debitory folders of Equitalia until December 31 and I ask you if you really think that on January 1st the Italians will have millions of euros to pay 9 million debitorial folders; but VAT, INPS and other contributions do not wait. [[Applause]] Let's think of forgotten categories like the agents of commerce, who had slightly recovered this summer, after months of drama and fatigue; and now down, other slashes. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you wish to cooperate, listen to the normal country. Give certainty to these workers, VAT matches, self-employed people, craftsmen and take away the nightmare of paying contributions and debit cards, but do so now. [[Applause]] Members have already anticipated this: home care; the problem is not intensive treatment, but the crowding of hospitals, because there is also the rush to the hospital of those who could be treated at home. Home tampons. He sanctified Commissioner Arcuri, who woke up after months of torpor; I thank, regardless of the political color, the governors who have strengthened the intensive therapies in their regions, despite the government and the commissioner have slept; other than thanks to the commissioner! [[Applause]] A request comes from all the productive categories: a serious country punishes the few smart people and not the whole pile. If among the millions of restaurateurs, traders, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs 99 percent respected the rules you imposed, spending money on plexiglass, distance, sanitization and masks, then you can't all close because of a smart guy. Go punish that smart guy, but let the people who spent money to fix their business work do their jobs. [[Applause]] As far as compensation is concerned, I would like to remind those who mention Europe that Germany, companies under 50 and self-employed workers, will restore up to 80% of turnover and Britain, up to 3,000 pounds, 80% of turnover. In Italy we are sailing on sight with alms. The money given to some entrepreneurs or taxi drivers is not even used to pay one month's light bills. I don't know if anyone really knows the sacrifices the entrepreneurs and workers of this country are making. Increasing the frequency of public transport has been said by everyone, but - I repeat - for someone it is more important to go around with the electric scooter. I appeal to colleagues and journalists who are following us: to inform yes, to terrify no! I say this to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Infected does not mean sick or plagued: we do not do a good service. Sometimes it is necessary to remember, in the name of the collaboration, also what happened between the benches of the Government, the PD and the Movimento 5 Stars in the past months. Today, unfortunately, hospitals are reopening at the fair in Bergamo and Milan, on which you laughed and speculated in the past - and for which you should apologize to someone - because it was money thrown away. [[Applause.]] I'm not gonna beat the shit out of you. I have one final thought about our parents, our grandparents and the elderly. Of course, our parents and grandparents are a patrimony not of the past, but of the present and the future, of work, wisdom, experience, care and education of our children. Colleagues of the Government, I would invite you to remember the elderly and grandparents not only when you need them politically, but also when you have to deal with pensions and the rights of the disabled and the most fragile. [[Applause.]] I close with a proposal and, as my colleagues in the centre-right have said, the proposals are not made in a Commission invented at night by the duo Conte-Casalino or by a coffee table. The Commission and the task force to cooperate - our constituent Fathers have decided - are called the Parliament of the Republic. Enough with the directing booths, they don't give birth to a damn thing. The proposal - on which I hope some reasons - is to reserve for the over 70, which are a fundamental heritage of this country, not the closure in the home, the ignoring or the ghettoizing of them, but... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] From the PD they scream like obsess: do I ask too much, in the name of collaboration? Is this it? First comes education, as far as I'm concerned; evaluate you. [[Applause.]] I am trying to finish, leaving on the table a proposal: don't close anyone in the house, because closing 60 million Italians in the house is the defeat not of the government, whose fate I care little, but of the country. We reserve hours during the day for shopping, tampons, health care and the use of public transport to women and men over the age of 70, who have made this country great. We help them to live safely in Italy, without closing up 60 million Italians; otherwise, you will have the responsibility. We are waiting for you in Parliament not once a year, but every week; even on Mondays, Senator Marcucci: we are paid to work on Mondays and it is not an exceptional thing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u65	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the last speaker has a duty, which is to synthesize and at the same time respond to what has been said earlier. So to Senator Malan, with all due respect, I say: but if you - and not only - to react to a pandemic emergency suggest us the decree-law, you do not indicate a legislative path, but a pavement of deaths. It is impossible for the times of a decree-law to react effectively to a pandemic curve that we must keep under control day after day. [[Applause]] It is impossible, it means being completely disconnected from reality. [[Comments. Call the president back.]] There is a curve to keep under control even twenty-four hours out of twenty-four hours. [[Comments]] I haven't started talking yet and the interruptions are already starting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u66	Please don't interrupt. Please, Senator Licheri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u67	LICHERI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Senator Salvini, it's true, we have to try not to close people. But let's tell you something: do you know that there is an epidemic in Italy? [[Applause]] Do you know that an epidemic has broken out that is causing all the health care in the world to falter? Do you know that, in front of this pandemic, there is not one health care on the planet that is not wavering? [[Applause]] This I want to tell you, because, to hear you speak, it seems that everything is happening here in Italy. Unfortunately, this is not the case: Madrid is sealed; France has closed; Holland is in very serious trouble; unfortunately, we have to face something - and I also answer Senator Ciriani - that is unpredictable: we cannot predict what will happen in fifteen days' time. That is the difficulty. [[Comments. Recalls of the President]] So, it's useless, Senator Salvini, to come here once a month and bring us the list of problems. [[Applause]] It's useless. You have to come here and bring us the list of problems and give us your solutions. Today is November 2nd and we are still waiting for the reopening plan of the schools of the League; we are still waiting for it, and it is November 2nd. [[Applause]] It is not possible that every time his speech stops at the end of the list of problems: there will also be a solution in his pocket, for God's sake! [[Comments.]] Mr President, let us start with a postulate on which we all agree: the analysis of the trend of the epidemic curve indicates that Italy is very close to scenario 4, which is the last and the most serious. We did and you all said it: the Covid seems unstoppable. Then there is fear, but beware: it is not only between Italian citizens; there is no corner of Europe at this moment that is not crossed by fear and uncertainty. Today's debate is therefore European, precisely because the size of this epidemic is global. But be careful, because something different has happened in Italy than in other countries: in these months, while the Government and citizens were fighting against the virus, unfortunately - and we witnessed it a few minutes ago - there was a part of politics that denied caveats and scientific evidence. There was a part of politics that was a whim to masks and claimed that Covid was an invention to strengthen the government. [[Applause. Comments]] It has been said in this House. So, as Senator Salvini quoted Germany, I say that a few days ago - let's remind everyone - Merkel spoke to the Bundestag and explained the measures... [[Brusio]] Mr President, that cannot be said. It's a matter of education and respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u68	I invite my fellow Members to silence, please. Everyone can say what he wants, and I repeat it every time, wherever he comes from. Please, Senator Licheri, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u69	LICHERI (M5S). I was saying that Merkel explained the measures it had taken with the Lands (the Germany we mentioned). In Italy, the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte made a similar request: an assumption of collective responsibility, without overlaps, as the President said, therefore without infancy and hiding; a statement of position and responsibility, each for his own part; nothing more, nothing less. He was refused, because he was told to make the restrictions, because they don't feel it. [[Applause]] ; because the choice is too unpopular and too serious, which is why it is better for him to make it. It is curious, forgive us, as it is that the Regions, so jealous of their competing autonomy, today invoke more stringent measures from the State throughout the national territory. [[Applause.]] It's curious. It is right, then, that the President should state today... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, it is not possible to speak with the background comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u70	Colleagues, please. Go ahead, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u71	LICHERI (M5S). It would have been right and appropriate, instead, that, in the face of a national emergency, the whole parliamentary arc and all the political and administrative subjects of this country could have shared these choices. Obviously, however, someone believes that he must continue to run away from the weight of the decisions; someone believes that he still agrees to shout at the masses to perhaps take a few more votes at the next electoral round. Mr President, you have done well to make this call and not to tire of doing so, nor can we record that these invitations are not new to you: "General States without opposition," Count asks for comparison, but it is total frost." The invitation of Count to the oppositions: "Decisive moment, proper confrontation" Yet, he continues to receive garbage. Today he did not receive a no, actually; he had something more. Today you have been told - and I quote Senator Ciriani - that oppositions do not flee, but that they want these things to be discussed in Parliament. But we have been in Parliament; we have been discussing the issues of the epidemiological emergency since March. [[Applause.]] We have lost count of times when the President of the Council of Ministers came here to the Senate to report on the government's work and to listen to our ideas and suggestions. Perhaps someone preferred to yell at the squares, but it is not possible for you to tell us that these measures were not shared and that you were never asked what you think of them, because that is not true at all. [[Comments]] Then I must think that, probably, behind this rhetorical exercise there is a strategy, which hides the fear of taking responsibility. [[Applause]] Get up from the seats and the stands and get down on the field! Dirty your slippers and sweat your shirt! At this moment we must all work together, for the country and for the citizens! [[Applause. Comments]] You must be proud, right now, to be Italian. [[Happy comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u72	Please, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go on like this! Please, let's get this guy over with. Please, Senator Licheri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u73	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, Italy, in the eyes of the world, still holds the primacy of health management and, if it has preserved it to date, it is for the spirit of sacrifice and the sense of national unity that it has demonstrated so far. This has been demonstrated by the citizens, the majority and the government, following the principle of proportion, precaution and responsibility. We can be proud of this! As for the financial resources, I remember the EUR 100 billion of the last three decree-laws, the EUR 40 billion that will come now, with the budgetary maneuver, and between the previous funding and appropriations and those of 2021, the citizens will be able to rely on EUR 70 billion. With the EUR 4 billion of financial manoeuvre, money for health will reach EUR 12 billion. These are not just numbers, Mr President, they are facts, because human lives are not saved by chatter, but by facts. In conclusion, colleagues, if you want to continue your witch hunt, go ahead. We in the Movimento 5 Star Group are only interested in saving as many human lives as possible. [[Applause]] That is why we shall be voting in favour of the majority motion for a resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u75	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u76	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that your presence here today simply bears witness to the exercise of your specific duty, which you have forgotten for too long. [[Applause]] I also repeat to some colleagues that honouring the institutions means, in Italy or in Europe, to attend them. [[Applause]] , to be there, to work and not to appear, from time to time, for some meeting, more worthy of the square than of these parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u77	Senator Bonino, address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u78	[[Comments.]] BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Yes, Mr. President. However, I find it incredible that, just as President Conte presents us with uncomfortable scenarios, so to speak, and a dramatic situation, the restrictions on combating the pandemic are placing huge economic costs on the citizens, because you want to continue rejecting the ESM. [[Applause. Comments]] You are imposing on citizens a no-MES tax, your no-MES tax, of about EUR 300-400 million more interest on public debt. And I am beginning to be annoyed by all these appeals for responsibility, for the common good, for the "we are all on the same boat." I hope that the appeal, Mr Conte, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, will be addressed above all to the important component of your majority, which, on the other hand, in a tetragonal, unjustifiable and purely identityist manner, rejects the ESM. So, either all responsible or none responsible; there must be no one who for not knowing what mysterious reasons is exempted from it. The ESM is the rocky guest of this debate, because no one wants to talk about it. I have tabled a resolution with other colleagues - and I thank them - precisely because there is no longer any alibi. I take this opportunity only to announce, but I will explain it later, the request for a split vote in the majority resolution, with particular regard to the last paragraph, No 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u79	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Senator Calderoli, do you accept the Government's proposals to amend motion for resolution No 1?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u80	Mr President, I am sorry that I made such a bad name in Parliament, so any document I have signed would be a trap: 75% of the cases are true, but 25% are serious; today it is one of those serious things. The aim was to re-establish the centrality of Parliament, as you have pointed out several times; to reiterate that the debate takes place in the assemblies and parliamentary committees, not in the steering booths, at the Ikea tables or at various things. Unlike what someone has said today, the main instrument in emergency situations is the decree-law, because it was born for that very reason. [[Applause]] The legislative activity of secondary rank can be complementary and, in any case, is subject to Parliament's assessment and direction; I think it is obvious that hot water is hot, as is the respect of Articles 72 and 67 of the Constitution. The reformulation proposal is a "sweetened" formula, but the content remains. And since rather than not having coffee, I also take it sweetened, I say yes to reformulation. But this is a resolution that commits the Government, recalling Senator Salvini's intervention, not to park anymore in a parking ban, because every day I will come to check and possibly put the fine when it should never be checked again. [[Applause]] I truly extend a heartfelt thanks to Senator Licheri, because he did not betray my expectations: I said he would amuse me and so it was. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u81	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u84	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, I am not speaking on the motion for a resolution, which is very clear. What I wanted to ask for and I would like to explain is the request for a separate vote in the majority motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u85	I call on Senator Bonino and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Drago and Giarrusso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On motion for a resolution No 4 there is the contrary opinion of the Government, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15 (with rewording), 18) and 22). In particular, the proposed rewording of point 15 is as follows: This means that point 15 stops here, leaving aside the part of it to allow them, on a voluntary basis, to limit the opportunities that expose them most at risk of contagion. This proposal for a rewording is accepted by the proposers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u88	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to ask for a split vote in order to vote separately on the parts on which the Government has expressed an opinion against and those on which it has expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u89	I put to the vote the request for a split vote made by Senator Malan. It's approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1), 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 19, 20 and 21 of the motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senators Ciriani, Bernini and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15, 18 and 22 of the motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senators Ciriani, Bernini and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u92	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we are asking for a split vote. We distinguish the premises and point 6 of the device from the rest of the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u95	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, we also call for a split vote, distinguishing the last commitment, point 12). I would like to explain my request, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. I believe that the time for decision is now, indeed we are extremely late, nor can we delay further assessments. Just ask, as President Conte told us, patients, family, families and all healthcare professionals. There really is no need for further study. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I put to the vote the request for a split vote made by Senator Malan. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u98	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am only speaking to clarify this passage of our work. We agree with Senator Malan's request for a split vote, but at the same time I would like to point out that we do not agree with the proposal... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But it is two separate votes. Mr Marcucci (PD). I know, but I think we should first decide on the separate parts and then proceed with the vote. It was just a clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can also take two votes. Mr Marcucci (PD). As you think, President. It was just a clarification. We voted first in favour of Senator Malan's request; as we consider the overall content of the document to be addressed as an act of political direction to the Government, we are opposed to the request for a separate vote made by Senator Bonino.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u99	Colleagues, we either vote piece by piece, which I do not wish to do, or I give rise to two separate votes, which I believe to be more pragmatically useful. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 6 of the motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of the motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u102	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, I had asked, but the House did not say so, to vote separately on the last paragraph of paragraph 12 of the motion for a resolution No 5. You didn't give me that, and you didn't even ask...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u103	I asked her if she wanted to intervene. If you remember, Senator Bonino, I asked you if you wanted to intervene and Senator Marcucci stood up and said that the majority had expressed opposition to this. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). I'm fine with Senator Marcucci's opinion. I say we vote on the request for a split vote... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know very well that in order to vote for separate parties, we need to have the consent of this House, which has not been on your... BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, you did not really verify that. Excuse me, without being too picky, you simply did not verify this consensus or dissent in this House. Admit it and we'll finish it there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When I called her, I asked her to say it. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). I said it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci stood up and said that they were against it and, in any case, the majority vote on this point precluded it altogether, having already given a favourable opinion. [[Senator Bonino's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u104	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-271.ana.u105	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, November 3, at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.52 p.m.
