ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.49 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 11 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u3	On 15 June 2020, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 20 April 2020, n. 26, laying down urgent provisions for elections for the year 2020 (1845).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, it is with deep emotion that I wish to express my condolences and my closeness to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Stefano Bertacco, who died last Sunday in his Verona at only fifty-seven years old. A person of deep intelligence and always open to constructive confrontation, he had entered the Senate for the first time in 2014 as a successor senator, precisely following my election to the Supreme Council of the judiciary. In the course of his parliamentary experience, which lasted also in this legislature, Stefano Bertacco has repeatedly made himself appreciated by his colleagues and by all the staff for their commitment, professionalism and great correctness, qualities that have enabled him to interpret the electoral mandate as best possible and to be one of the main protagonists of this legislature, in which he led with great merit the Parliamentary Group Brothers of Italy in some of the most delicate and complex moments of national political life. His constant active participation in the work of this Assembly and of the Commissions has never prevented him from dealing with the same dedication as the administration of the territory and, in particular, of Verona, his city, where he held the office of councillor for social services. A sector, the latter, to which Stefano Bertacco has always looked with strong interest and passion, devoting himself as a politician as well as as as a simple citizen to the many difficulties of those who live situations of particular fragility. Stefano Bertacco leaves to all of us the memory of a mild and dialogueing politician, but for this reason he is not less determined and determined to carry forward his ideas and his battles, with civic sense and unshakable moral strength. The terrible illness that struck him just over six months ago has never succeeded in defeating his spirit and moral strength. Indeed, until the last day, Senator Bertacco continued to work in the interests of the Assembly and all Italians. In remembrance of Senator Stefano Bertacco, I therefore call on this House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u7	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I must confess that, among the many speeches I have made in this House, and even outside this House, this is one of the most difficult, if not the most difficult, because I must bring my memory and the memory of my colleagues of Brothers of Italy to a dear colleague, a great friend, a man who left us at only fifty-seven years old. We do not remember, therefore, a person who had abandoned politics or who was far from Parliament, but a person who was with us until a few weeks ago, a few months ago, in those benches on which a bouquet of flowers is now laid. And on those benches Stefano wanted to come back with all his strength. He fought every last one of us so he could come back to us. Unfortunately, he didn't make it. He was active in this House, with us, until that day of November, a damned day when he told us that he had to return quickly to Verona for investigation. Unfortunately, since that day a path of illness has begun that appeared immediately very serious. During that illness, however, a strange thing happened. It is as if the disease had made more shine and the human qualities that Stefano had and that everyone recognized him, even the political opponents: the smile, the friendliness, the willingness to confront everyone, a natural bonomy and the desire to do, to continue to engage for himself, for his loved ones, of course, but also for us, for the Group, albeit at a distance, albeit with all the difficulties that you can imagine, and also, above all, for his city, the city of Verona, which he loved very much. President Giorgia Meloni and those who, like me, have heard him in the last few days, can testify to the fact that, again on June 2nd, but still last Saturday, he told his friends how to prepare for elections, how to prepare for new challenges. On this occasion, so difficult and so dramatic, I would like to make one thing clear: Stephen was a right-wing man and he was from head to toe. But he was, in fact, a man, he was not a stereotype and he did not love the labels stuck by those who would want ridiculous caricatures, of those who think that being on the right means automatically being people who are not intelligent or unsensitive. Stefano, on the other hand, was a right-wing man and an administrator of a right who has always taken care of the social. Stefano has been involved, in his political militancy, almost always in childhood, in youth discomfort, in marginalization, in the elderly, in disability, in addiction: in short, in all the most fragile people and in the most complicated situations. The mayor of Verona, Federico Sboarina, said that surely Stefano was the best advisor to social policies that the city had. We can add that it was an excellent, extraordinary member of the Parliamentary Labour and Social Security Commission and of the Committee on Childhood and Adolescence. We miss this a lot, especially in these moments. Stefano was my group leader and many colleagues who, for the first time, crossed the Senate door without any parliamentary experience and absolutely fasting Regulations, logistics and operations. He has always had great patience in telling us, explaining us, refreshing ourselves and comforting us about things to do and what we should not have done, because it was very easy to immediately enter into empathy and sympathy with Stephen. We, who strive to be not only a political community, but also a human community, of friends and people who have the pleasure of being together, also remember him for this, for the many beautiful moments that we have lived with him, perhaps at dinner or having a coffee at the end of the work, and in which we confronted ourselves on hopes, disappointments and the many moments of bitterness, but also on the small and great victories that our movement, Brothers of Italy, an adventure in some ways romantic and even a little crazy, recorded day after day. Now that it seems that we reap the fruits of what we have sown in difficult years Stephen is not there and we miss much his advice, his presence and his ability to see far away. We have a regret, I have it personally and many of us, because we were organizing a visit to Verona after the blockage, lockdown and all the difficulties of the coronavirus in order to meet it, but the disease was terrible and faster than us and it anticipated us and this really causes us so much bitterness because we wanted to greet him one last time. [[Applause.]] With Stefano I share a political path in many aspects very similar, of youth policy and not only, over the years and I thought that he would like a poem, which is also an Irish prayer and blessing, by Saint Patrick, that he would certainly appreciate, if he could hear us, but he will certainly hear us. It is a blessing poem that is recited when someone leaves for a journey, even for one from whom unfortunately you do not return. The last part says: Till we meet again, brother, may God keep you in the palm of his hand. Hi, Stefano, thank you for everything you've taught us. With your life you honored the Senate and honored Italy. [[Stretch applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u10	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been personally tested by the news of Stefano Bertacco's death. We have shared the presence in the Commission of work for two legislatures, beginning with the last legislature. He was a kind, smiling, generous, reassuring and wise man, and today we mourn Senator Bertacco, because he is constantly in dialogue, as we know, members of the Commission, public and private work, social security. Dialogue between people is always important when it enriches and even more so is institutional dialogue, because we all, here, must decide the fate and, often, the life of our fellow citizens and citizens. Senator Bertacco was perfectly aware of this, when he always brought his political experience on the territory, close to real life, here every day. As your Parent Company recalled, we too often faced each other at informal times, at the bar, at the buvette, outside the Chamber. He often told me about his projects in favour of people with autism, of the Blue Day, which he organized on his territory, of his experience as a support administrator. I remember that he once told me, in a profoundly human way, his experience at the side of a child with disabilities. For this profound confrontation, while belonging to different political families, we also shared important political and parliamentary battles, from the law on after us, in the past legislature, to today's one on caregivers, to the stabilization of the precarious Anpal, the last legislation on which we have engaged together. Last night I had the opportunity to review your speech on this legislation and, always in a dialogue, referred to an amendment of mine, although it belonged to different political parties. His last video, in which he drew attention to the Covid-19, was also charged with his humanity. Therefore, I and the whole Gruppo Italia Viva strive to mourn his family, his friends, the Fratelli d'Italia Parliamentary Group, his leader Giorgia Meloni and the whole community of Verona. I am convinced that today we lose a man of institutions, deeply human, in the high sense of the term. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, it is difficult to speak, because the news of the death of Stefano Bertacco has struck everyone, who had known him in the last parliamentary term and who had had had the opportunity to know him in this. He was in my Group for a few months, we were Group colleagues in the last legislature, when he decided, together with another senator, to join the Mixed Group to form the Brothers of Italy component, with great commitment and with great enthusiasm. We had, as you know, different political views, but I can assure you that this was an opportunity for me to get to know him quite well. He was such a kind person, so polite; dialogue was not only a way of posing in institutions, as is often said, but it was just a profound trait of his person. He's always been cooperative. We met in the last legislature not only in the Group, but also in some battles, which I would like to remember here (some have now remembered Senator Parente). He was a person who cared very much about the weakest and most fragile people, and this perhaps reflected deeply in his personality trait, which made him so human. I insist very much on his grace, on his education, on his kindness: you know that in politics it is not a characteristic so easy to find, especially among political opponents. I therefore believe that it will be missing a great deal; it will be missing from your Commission and it will be missing from this House. I am deeply saddened by his premature death and even by what he has struggled; he fought so deeply to the end, thinking to the very end that he could defeat that terrible disease. That is why we are close - I say this on my behalf, to the Senators of Free and Equal and to the whole Mixed Group - to your loved ones, to your family, to your friends, to all the Senators of your Group and to the Brothers of Italy party. Goodbye, Stephen, let the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u16	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I wish to express my condolences and closeness to the family of Stefano Bertacco, to the city of Verona and to his Group, the Brothers of Italy. The memory that I have of Stefano is obviously linked to the territory and the city, rather than to parliamentary activity; a long knowledge over the years, in which we have always found ourselves on opposite fronts, but the fact of being on the opposite side does not prevent me from recognizing the political and human qualities that Stefano expressed during his political activity. He was able to intelligently combine politics (often humanizing it) with different qualities that he was able to express, first of all the seriousness in his behavior. He believed a lot in what he did and always did it with dignity and honor. He never transcended, even in the most difficult situations, but always acted with dignity and honor. He did so with competence; he had this innate propensity towards the difficulties of the weakest sections of the population and it is no coincidence that, despite the Roman commitments, he wanted to assume to himself the council member of the social services of the Municipality of Verona, as has been recalled. Having known him well on several occasions and traveled with him, but also having confronted me in political activity, that was his real mission on earth: to help those who were weaker. He had a strong sense and respect for the institutions and he used it (I spoke before of dignity and honor) in all his daily actions. It has therefore exercised a policy that is very attentive to the needs and difficulties of the last, but also to the territorial dynamics. Verona was for him reason to be of his commitment and the fact that he maintained the council is further proof of this. His activity, in the various roles he has played (I am obviously not referring only to the prestigious position of senator) has certainly contributed to the growth and development of the city of Verona and its territory. Today not only the Senate, but also politics and above all Verona loses the authoritative voice of those who have always striven to grow and develop this city, especially on the side of the weakest. I hope Verona will receive its name inside the Pantheon Ingenio Claris (who is from Verona knows what I'm talking about), this place inside the monumental cemetery where the personalities who created favor and development for the city are recognized. Again, my condolences to the Group, the family and the city of Verona. Hi, Stefano, have a good trip. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u19	FERRO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, it is with some embarrassment that I take the floor, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, to express to his wife Nicoletta, to his brother Luigi, to his three grandchildren and to the Fratelli d'Italia Group the closeness of the whole Forza Italia Group and our colleagues. I personally knew Stefano, being from Verona, and the Bertacco in Verona represented a lot in social. In February, Mother Anna Maria, founder of Agaras (Family Friends Association of St. Patrignano); Brother Luigi was for years director of the home of St. Patrignano in Valsugana, in the province of Trento. Family and people, the Bertacco Stefano, always engaged in social: this feature made them become important and even redeem maybe from some mistakes made in youth. Stefano was good and mild: one could also be found on opposite sides, but he was one with whom one could talk and dialogue; he was a man of dialogue and building relationships. He and I - forgive me for this personal passage - were both touched by this goddamn disease: we asked ourselves very often about this; when I was hospitalized, he sent me a beautiful poem by Pablo Neruda, "Ode to life," which you will surely remember; he said to me: When you're down on the rope, read it, so that there you can find the strength to move forward. Another aspect of the relationship with him that I made mine - and the colleagues of Forza Italia know it - was to say, every time we saw each other, "Mai molar, mai molar, mai molar, mai molar!" [[Applause.]] We met the last time in Verona in a meeting with all the Verona MPs in the Arena to urge the Government to allow a derogation to the limit of viewers in outdoor spaces, a problem that has been solved (I think maybe it was a small gift that he gave us). We wrote last week, a few days before it was missing: I asked him how it was going, because I knew he had to make a check (a PET), and he told me "Well, on the one hand, and bad," on the other. What can I say? He was a man of hope, confident: until the last he believed and hoped and fought with dignity. During the first Sundays of lockdown he was very angry - not to say a bad word - for a video posted on Facebook, because people, careless of the danger, continued to attend the Lungadige and the lake. He made a video, in which we can see that the disease already struck him (he appears completely bald and suffering), in which he said: I've been fighting cancer since November... and you, what do you do? You guys go around... You're disgusting to me. It was a very strong appeal, also taken up by the national press. Fifty-seven years: too young, there are no comments, no words can be found. I believe that the city of Verona and, if you will allow me, our Assembly also lose a person who, with his ideals and values, contributed to dialogue, growth and development. The Senate, the Forza Italia Group and the city of Verona will miss much. Stefano, never Molar and always forward! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u22	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is difficult to speak for a memory dedicated to Stefano Bertacco in this House in a few minutes and I never wanted and thought I should do so on behalf of the Group of which I am a member, the League, but it is up to me not only as a Veronese, but also as a friend of mine. I had known Stefano Bertacco for thirteen years: we shared a parallel political path, first as city councilors, then as senators. Stefano Bertacco has always been a man and a politician willing to listen and compare, as has been said, but, when he convinced himself of an idea, he did not move from his beliefs: no one could shake him. He had never prevented anyone, he was correct with everyone, but gained an opinion, he became unshakable in defending her and defending her reasons. He was therefore not a man of easy compromise. He was then a man of great irony, a sharp irony in political confrontation, an irony that entertained and put good mood when confronted with him, in any situation: a characteristic, that of irony, all Verona, because Stefano Bertacco was a typical citizen of Verona. He has always loved his city and Verona has always loved and respected Stefano Bertacco. As I was saying, he defended his ideas with conviction, but he was able to ironically and funny with every difficult situation. Stefano Bertacco has always been a protagonist of Verona's politics, but he has always been without any delusions of protagonism. There has always been for everyone, until the last; it gave security to those who had him next door: a perfect shoulder to face any battle. A strong, solid character, a rock: this was Stefano Bertacco both in interpersonal relationships and in the team game of politics. You could always count on him. He was always in the front row. He also faced his last trial, the evil that took him away, with great optimism, courage and determination, working for his community, without ever sparing himself to the last. I feel lucky to have met Stefano, to have shared with him a part of our political and human life. Stefano Bertacco will miss many, obviously his loved ones (especially his wife, his brother and his grandchildren) and Brothers of Italy, but he will also miss many people who have simply had occasion to meet him. I and my colleagues from the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group who have known him, who have had this chance and this fortune. We will certainly miss him, but Stefano will always accompany us and, when we think about it, we will always do it with a smile, with the same smile that has always given us and has never lost, even in the most difficult moments of his life. Thank you, Stefano. You have lived an intense, committed life, but also full of curiosity and fun. We won't forget you, Stephen. A hug from all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u25	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to contribute to the memory of our esteemed colleague Stefano Bertacco, who left us after a battle against a serious illness at the age of fifty-seven. Of him in the Movimento 5 Stars we have a clear image: first came his smile, then the man, then the politician and it is a precious and appreciated fact. The city mourning and the flag at half-auction in its city also testify to its long commitment as city councilman to social services and education of the Municipality of Verona. Commitment, determination and a spirit of self-denial have also marked it here in this House, as in the Commission, where we have had the opportunity to confront a serious and incisive opposition. Particularly touching is the last message he left in the last days of the disease: it reminds us that selfishness and disinterest are the worst enemies of the community and the best allies of indifference, a virus perhaps much worse than the pandemic. Respect for people and the lives of others were the last teachings he wanted to pass on. This voice of yours certainly unites and must be united with ours, and I hope that it will now spread outside this House and these palaces to fuel that idea of community and common good which, now more than ever, serve Italy to get out of this really very difficult situation. Thus we recall a person who in his life made the word "responsibility" a real and concrete word, because our colleague Stefano Bertacco had the need and urgency that responsibility for others should be an example to be grasped and transmitted. I therefore express, on behalf of all the Movimento 5 Stars, deep condolences and closeness to the family members and also to his Group's colleagues, who have accompanied him in these last difficult months. May the clear example that has left us be comforting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u26	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 25 June. Today's sitting will discuss the decree-law concerning extension of interceptions and procedural suspensions. During the general discussion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is authorised to meet for the discussion of the Decree-Law on electoral consultations for the year 2020. Since the Government has announced its intention to put the question of confidence in the decree-law extension interceptions, the Conference of the Leaders has organised the relevant discussion. The debate on trust, for which thirty minutes have been allocated on the basis of specific requests from the groups, will take place at this evening's sitting. At tomorrow morning's sitting, beginning at 8.30 a.m., explanations of vote will take place and calls it, for which each senator will vote from his place. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting will also include a report by the President of the Council of Ministers on the videoconference of Members of the European Council scheduled for 19 June 2020 at 11.30 a.m., with direct television transmission. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. At the end of the briefing the session will be taken away to allow senators to participate in the funeral of the late Senator Bertacco. Tomorrow afternoon only the committees involved in the examination of the decree-law on electoral matters may be convened, except from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in conjunction with the meeting of a parliamentary group. The agenda for the sitting of Thursday 18 June provides for the discussion of the decree-law on electoral consultations for the year 2020. At 3 p.m. the question time will be held, with the presence of the Ministers of Economic Development and Infrastructure. Next week's schedule provides for the discussion of the decree-law concerning further measures for the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 and the resolution for the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution. On Thursday, June 25th there will be the inspection union and, at 15, the question time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u27	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until June 25: [[Tuesday, June 16, h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 1786 - Decree-Law n. 28, Extension of interceptions and suspension of proceedings (decades on 29 June) - Information of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the videoconference of members of the European Council scheduled for 19 June 2020 (Wednesday 17, 11.30) - Drawing of law n. 1845 - Decree-Law n. 26, Election consultations year 2020 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on 19 June) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 18, at 15) Wednesday 17 " h. 8,30 Thursday 18 " h. 9,30 Friday 19 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 1845 (Decree-Law No 26, Election consultations year 2020) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, June 23 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 1812 - Decree-Law n. 33, Further epidemiological emergency measures COVID-19 (expires on July 15) - Deliberation for the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday, June 25, at 15) - Trade Union inspection Wednesday 24 " h. 9,30 Thursday 25 " h. 9,30]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1786 (Decree-Law No. 28, Extension of interceptions and suspension of proceedings) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 7' FI-BP 1 h 6' PD 49' Mixed 41' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1845 (Decree-Law No 26, Election consultations year 2020) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 4' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FI-BP 47' PD 35' Mixed 29' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1812 (Decree-Law No 33, Further epidemiological emergency measures COVID-19) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 7' FI-BP 1 h 6' PD 49' Mixed 41' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u30	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was actually on the Senate website until this morning that government communications were still reported, but it has been since Monday that, in a swirling of texts, we have all been warned, by telephone message, that instead there would be only one information. That's what you confirmed. I really cannot accept this deminution, for a number of reasons which concern - I believe - the role of this House and of Parliament. Colleagues, the last time this Assembly voted on a policy paper on European issues dates back to 20 February 2020 [[Applause),]] or four months ago, in another "geological era" compared to everything that happened afterwards. Of course, everyone has spoken, and last but not least, Parliament. Let me also say that, according to the law, the government's justification seems to me to be bureaucratically laughable and poor, because four European Councils were by electronic means, in particular on 10 March, 17 March, 26 March and 23 April, without this Parliament being able to give an address vote. I don't think we can go on like this. I do not believe that the Senate or Parliament can continue to accept the removal of their powers and obligations. [[Applause.]] It is not just a matter of law, it is a matter of obligation in the direction in which it must go in our country. In these four months and in these "x" Councils there has been discussion of fundamental things, without the government having a minimum mandate. It was not only the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) - and that is all right - but the new generation fund, the budgetary deviation, the role of the European Central Bank (ECB) and that of the European Investment Bank (EIB); it was discussed about the European instrument called Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (Sure), everything and more. Europe has passed - happily in my opinion - a real revolution on which we have not been allowed to open our mouths (no matter how you think it is, I am not saying that). If you add to this decree-law to the vote of confidence, the electoral decree-law coming with a vote of confidence, I would not be surprised if a text was sent in which we were really informed that Parliament was dissolved or better hibernated. That is not what I mean by the institutions. [[Applause]] And it is not even so, my fellow Group leaders, that you should understand this. It is not just a humiliation of the minority (what does it have to do with it?), is a humiliation of the institution and is what I think most hurts someone who strongly believes in liberal democracy, because the time of decision is now and the proper place is Parliament, with all respect for high-ranking villas and various activities. I therefore believe that we must say no more. Enough, the government must come and it should itself ask for a mandate, because it would make it stronger. I am not a Martian: I know very well why we do not vote. The problem is not the interest of the country: you do not vote because you are not sure that this majority holds. [[Applause.]] They have already told us and written to us all: the backstagers, the forerunners; all except us, good lasts we arrive now. I shall conclude, Mr President. I didn't mean to set any trap. We know that the traps announced three days earlier do not seem to be defined as such. I had only claimed, on the basis of the announcement of the calendar, to exercise a right-duty to give an address to the Government. Mr President, I repeat: the time for decision is now. The problem is the MES, and it's a problem between PD and Movimento 5 Stars. That's the truth. Let's at least say that. Let's face it. [[Applause.]] Even in the light of the communications of Minister Hope last week, who gave us a summary of the needs of the health and education sectors, really say that we do not use these EUR 36 billion, at zero rates etc., is irresponsible. That is why I am going back to asking for Parliament to be able to express itself because it is not only its right, but its specific duty. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, once again to press the Government to allow us to exercise this duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u33	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even from the Lega-Salvini Premier Group - the Sardinian action party, there is a request that the original version of the timetable be restored, the one that was communicated to us last week, and so with the announcement of the President-in-Office's communications at the European Council itself. What has left us a lot of surprise is the fact that we first gave willingness to make communications, which then, of course - at least this is the impression - verifying that the majority did not have a clear address on what they wanted to do, they were debilitated to information. This is a matter of concern to us, and a great deal, because it is right, as Mrs Bonino said, that Parliament and the institutions should be able to intervene on this issue. It also leaves quite an astonishment on the fact that, while Senator Bonino was speaking, there was a total disinterest on the part of many Members of this House. I keep it to point out that it seems that these issues are of no interest to anyone. This is especially so in the light of what has been said, with all the changes that many authoritative representatives highlight precisely on the policy of the European Union, without ever being able to express a political direction in this House with the various positions that can be held between the majority and the minority, also taking specific responsibility for the choices that are taken. It was well remembered that during the whole period of the pandemic there was no time when this House was able to express itself and give an address on the subject of the European Union. [[Applause.]] It's really unbelievable about such a subject. Then, we can stand here and discuss, say that maybe the government has not been able to interpret the needs that come from the citizens, we can do the political part, argue, highlight all the issues. It is right that the opposition should do the opposition, but we have really been very alarmed about one thing and are concerned. I am referring to the fact that this Government, the President-in-Office of the Council and its majority (because it is not only the Government, but the same parliamentary majority that supports it), have certainly been able to do one thing: to mortify Parliament. [[Applause.]] You were absolutely good at this. You have led to Parliament's mortification. Among other things, let us say, we have made several times also appeal: we have addressed you as President of the Senate and also to President Mattarella. Indeed, in the face of such a situation, a crisis, an emergency like this, the fact that we do not involve Parliament risks moving into history as an attempt, in some way, to move from a parliamentary democracy to a new form of dictatorship, made only of press conferences, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, initiatives such as the General States. Then we are accused of not having participated in the General States, that the opposition is not constructive and does not do what it should do, that it does not propose. It is almost as if history or narration - this new word that someone loves to use - was that of a government all committed to solving the problems of citizens and, on the other hand, an opposition that instead wants to exploit and does not understand the scope of the moment. Let it be clear, since we are in democracy, that the opposition has actually done the opposition, but in a constructive way and I remember - just to quote them - some of the issues that we have put to Parliament's attention, because this is the place, are not the information of Conte, let alone the issues related to the States General. Among other things, someone pointed out that the general states of the past, in which nobility, clergy and whatever else were found, essentially preceded the French Revolution: so it is not particularly good to do these initiatives at a time even a little'social revolt, which can really arise in the light of the lack of some measures. [[Applause.]] Given, however, that we must all tell them about the role of constructive opposition, do you remember when Matteo Salvini said at the beginning of the crisis that it took 70 billion euros? I remember a whole series of insults, but what does it say? Where are you gonna get them from? But what are you proposing? In the end, even with respect to our requests for a much wider deviation than you initially expected, you did first 25 billion euros of deviation, plus 55 billion euros, which will become 80; it will not be enough and you will do more, so you did basically what we had invited, constructively, to do as early as March. [[Applause.]] You cannot say, therefore, that we have not made these proposals. As with the liquidity decree, we have said that we should include the criminal exemption rule for bank directors, otherwise these loans will not be granted, and you have not done so. I remember the amendment calling for VAT to be removed from the masks and the final result is that you did not do so and did so after, chasing after, after all the mess that was made by Commissioner Arcuri. We have basically asked to take advantage of the emergency situation in order to do a tax reform by re-introduced flat tax, now there are amendments to the relaunch decree and perhaps some minority proposals will be heard. However, we asked for a plan of public works and infrastructure with the money that already exists, so not going to get more, unlocking the works whose provisions are already there. We asked for the taxing of overtime to increase productivity. We have asked for industrial policies to be put in place in this country, which has been a long time since, and we are also trying to create strategies for the manufacturing sector. We've asked you to issue preferential Treasury bonds for the citizens, and you're a little late there, too. How can you say - and I have just mentioned a few examples - that the opposition has not been in this constructive period? That's the truth. We have been constructive, we have come to Parliament and through Parliament we have made proposals and tabled amendments. On the other hand, there is a majority that does not want opposition, other than making constructive opposition. You don't want opposition, that's the truth, because you don't have the numbers to secure a majority. [[Applause]] We can no longer continue on this path. President, we are very concerned. Every time there is an act of direction, there is work to be done, there is voting on the amendments, other than amendments: only decrees-laws were voted on with confidence. It was enough to accept some minority amendments, work together, be constructive and from this point of view would probably have given up trust as you did. Instead, everything goes on with urgent decisions and with confidence, without any vote on the part of Parliament and only accusations against the opposition that they are not in a position to make the opposition. It really seems to me that this is part of a reality show that has nothing to do with the real reality that we are living and that we live in Parliament every day. We want an act of responsibility. You are in time to do so: vote for communications, as Senator Bonino has also asked, and as I think our colleagues in Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia, who represent the minority at the moment (in this Parliament, because we are actually a majority in the country). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u36	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, we all know that before a European Council there are government communications, following which resolutions can be put forward by the parliamentary groups so that everyone can express their own idea, the House can vote and the Government can have a mandate to go to the European Council to discuss Italy's position expressed in the right places, that is, in parliamentary circles. We all know that this is the correct dynamic that should have been put in place. The government, however, has been running away from dialogue in Parliament for a few months now, but we cannot continue to run away forever because sooner or later we will have to deal with the decisions taken in Parliament. As Senator Bonino rightly pointed out, it is therefore not conceivable that since February, when the line of majority forces in essence risks not being fully coincident on certain dossiers, the Government has decided not to make Parliament express itself. It is a dynamic that cannot be tolerated. If there are differences between the majority forces on the use of the ESM, it will be resolved either in this House or elsewhere. It cannot be thought that the problem will be solved simply by running away from Parliament, because this is an attitude that insults the institutions, insults the government and insults Parliament. We all know how it will end; we already read it in all the newspapers. I apologize for the raw term but what we read is that in the end the Movimento 5 Stars will make "pippa". This is what the newspapers write and then, in the end, you will access the ESM because we know well that the great puppeteer of the Government is the PD and that the great puppeteer of the PD are the European Chancellors who want Italy to access the ESM because it is the "horse of Troika." We, in order to have the few billions of the ESM (because it is not 37) would put Italy under surveillance. It's not 37 billion euros in the meantime because the ESM doesn't have it. If anyone takes the trouble to study what the ESM is, he will see that it is an international treaty that provides for the possibility of raising funds on the markets. Therefore, bonds - let us call them - will have to be issued in order to find resources which, according to how they will be found, can then be made available to the Member States. To date, the resources in the ESM coffers - I remind all of us - are zero, or rather someone says that there may be a total of EUR 400 million. This means that the ESM will have to go to the market and find resources; then the Member States will have to request access to the ESM with specific projects, the ESM will have to admit them and then the money will come. This means that no money will come from the ESM within a year, or there will be little money. And, then, why is there such insistence? There is simply because - we all know - the ESM becomes the means to bring a European bond into the Italian political dynamics. There is still someone from Movimento 5 Stars who remembers the promises made in the electoral campaign and, therefore, is reluctant to activate this mechanism; there are those who, instead, want this mechanism to be activated precisely because they have always stated that the objective is to bind Italy to European decisions. Are we making money on the MES? No. Again, it would be useful for those who pronounce on certain dossiers to at least deepen them. Why is it not even economically useful to access the ESM? The ESM - if we want to say it in simple terms - issues bonds that fall into a senior category, i.e. they are returned by the State before all other government bonds. This means that once Italy admits that there is a senior debt, all the rest of the debt (i.e. all our government bonds) is second-level. Therefore, the investor will require a higher interest rate to purchase a second-level State bond. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u37	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice. I can't feel anything from my place.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u38	Please, Senator Fazzolari. FAZZOLARI (FdI). Demanding a higher interest rate on the entire Italian debt, saving is all to see. We would have liked to talk about all this with Prime Minister Conte who, instead - his goodness - comes here to make an informative. To use his terms, he comes to make Parliament known. Parliament, however, does not need to be educated, as it has the presumption - sometimes - that it knows much more about both Conte and his ministers on these matters. We would therefore like to have a frank discussion with him, with a few questions and voting on them. Premier Conte, on the basis of the vote he has obtained, will go to the European Council. We, on the other hand, have a Government that establishes the General States at Villa Doria Pamphili, because it has decided to do the show with "The Villa of the famous". At the villa of the famous a series of blue cars enter a very elegant frame; the speakers discuss with each other behind closed doors, without streaming and journalists, and listen to some 'people, and then go out in the pleasant garden of Villa Pamphili to say some banality. And then it is the opposition that is irresponsible because it does not lend itself to these clowns! No, we don't lend ourselves to these clowns. We believe that the general states should be in Parliament - the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies - with the rules of engagement laid down in our Constitution and our parliamentary regulations and not with the rules laid down by Count and Casalino. [[Applause.]] In the remaining time available to me, I will try to answer a specific question. I believe that anyone with a minimum of historical and political knowledge felt embarrassed when Conte said at the conference, in front of journalists, that Brothers of Italy and League should convince the States of the Visegrád group to be softer in the negotiations. That is indeed a grotesque statement. When we relate to each other, we do not do so on the basis of friendships. Count believes that friendship, snacks or jokes exchanged with Merkel may have an influence on European dynamics, but that is not the case. Dynamics between states are not dynamics of friendship. And then everything becomes embarrassing, because it runs the obligation to remind Prime Minister Conte that, of the four States of Visegrád, one, Poland, is part of the ECR group (European conservatives and reformists) together with Brothers of Italy, two are part of the People's Party together with his friend Merkel, and that the government force of the Czech Republic is in the group Renewing the Europe of Macron and his ally of Government Matteo Renzi. So, it's really embarrassing for us to have to relate to important issues with people who really don't know what they're talking about. Let us renew, then, precisely because we want to speak seriously about these issues, the request that the Government come here tomorrow to the Senate to make its communications, to give us the opportunity to present our resolutions and to vote on them, because the Government cannot continue to flee from this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u41	ROMANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am surprised, even if I try to understand, at times, why they oversee certain decisions. It has often happened in the past, and it has happened with many governments, which, on the eve of a very important international meeting, the Government asked Parliament for a certain rate of caution. It's a difficult negotiation, the one in progress. It is perhaps impossible, improbable, to be able to hand over to Parliament all the elements of this negotiation: this in order not to prejudice its outcome, which we always hope, whatever the Government, is in favour. However, we already know that the meeting of the European Council, the Heads of State or Government on 18 June will not be final, it will not be conclusive and there will probably be a need for another and perhaps another. The difference, however, from the past, of the next European Council is that in Europe - let alone - there has been a change of paradigm. There has been a shift from loans, which were granted on the basis of system conditionality, to a mechanism which enables Europe to verify the capacity and quality of expenditure and of money, both on loan and as grants, which are granted. The problem of the Italian Government today is not only to bring home a good negotiation in Europe, but also to explain to the country - since it is a firm and definitive fact - how it intends to spend the money, considering that the only instrument that has always existed for the Government was that famous PNR, of which perhaps few know or recognize the existence. It is that document which is attached to the budget law every year, which has often been called a dream book and which is written with the left hand of the officials of the various ministries. This time, however, Europe will ask us to take into account what will be written not in the PNR but in this programme. And this programme must be in line with the conditionality already required and already defined by the European Commission for a greener and more digital Europe. Beyond the fact that you want or do not want to use the ESM, the money that will be granted by the next generation EU (the famous 170 billion, of which 90 of loans and 80 of grants) will be given only on condition that the Government is in a position to explain with accuracy that destination and what purposes they will have. If that is the problem, it is a problem that concerns Parliament even more. We are not faced with a simple negotiation in Europe, complicated as it always has been: it is a question of defining, for our country, what investments will have to be made, because of investment and reforms we are talking about; investments that will have to be made with the money that Europe could give us. The government seemed to have thought about it. He asked Colao to make a plan. Colao has arrived and, indeed, seemed to be the next President of the Council. When he presented the plan, he was tricked at suggestion. The Colao plan, which has no longer been taken seriously, has been replaced by the General States, an indoor walkway. Not even the journalists had access; it was a meeting among a few: many triggers and - if I understood correctly - very few of the Democratic Party have seen a catwalk of representatives of the institutions, characters and exponents of the economic world according to which the government should prepare that famous plan that should allow Europe to say that this time the danari to Italy are given more willingly than in the past because they know what finalizations they will have. The problem then arises because Parliament must have no idea what this money is intended for. While it is true that the Italian system as a whole annually invoicing - I use an improper term - 1,800 billion, or 150 billion per month; that with a lockdown of two and a half months we have lost from 9 to 15 percent of GDP (i.e. about 350 billion) and that the budgetary deviation voted by this Parliament is worth 75 billion, there is no call for about 300 billion, which should come from Europe. 36 billion could come with the ESM; 170 billion could come from the next generation EU and 20 billion from Sure. Perhaps they could also come from the mysterious project called the European Investment Bank (EIB), which has never been understood by the Italian economic world, although it should help small and medium-sized enterprises. I repeat that all these money arrives only if the Government is able and under the conditions of giving precise explanations and with examinations that will be done monthly. There will not be the Troika or the International Monetary Fund, but there will be European officials who will ask for the promises we have made, the dream book that we have written and the things that we have actually implemented in the meantime in relation to the money destinations that have been granted to us. It is, therefore, a typically parliamentary issue and on which Parliament should find itself debating and discussing not in the general states at Villa Pamphili, not with a distracted reading of the Colao plan, but with a true deepening of what are the strategic investments that awaits this country in order to get out of the very serious economic crisis generated by the pandemic. President, the only result is that there will be information and ten minutes reserved for the Leaders. This is the level of debate that awaits us tomorrow and it is shameful that Italy has a Government that has not yet explained to the Italians what are the possibilities of having access to certain funds in Europe, but that Europe will have to explain what destinations and finalizations will have the money that, in the case, will be granted to us. [[Applause.]] It is incredible that this is happening and, unfortunately, my dear colleague, Bonino, it is happening. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u42	Senator Romani, is your proposal that there be communications? ROMANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, of course there are communications, a broad debate and a vote on resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u45	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a fairly lively debate and clearly the various souls, not just oppositions, have expressed themselves. We are debating whether we should vote for the President of the Council of Ministers' communications or for information and why, in relation to the previous timetable for communications, we have moved to information. That is why it is only clear that it is not precisely the will or fault of the President of the Council of Ministers or of the majority group that we have changed course; President Michel has made it clear that this will be an informal section of the European Council, in videoconference, and it will be a further step towards the debate that will take place in early July, presumably around 3 July. This is also evident from the reading of the documents made available to all colleagues by the Study Service. I merely read what they wrote and read about a video conference of the members of the European Council of 19 June 2020. I have heard a number of Members speak out of the discussions in a presumptuous manner, speaking of other lines of funding - I also avoid naming which ones - already provided for in international treaties, which can be activated by individual Member States; after what? [[Applause]] If anyone - like our Government - wants to activate a planned line - and I repeat - already provided for in the international treaties - is not new - he must come to this Parliament, which will express itself clearly. [[Applause.]] I would add that this Parliament has already given clear indications in previous resolutions to the President of the Council of Ministers and has not changed his mind. Let's go back to a more technical subject. What does the videoconference of the members of the European Council on 19 June provide for? What are we gonna talk about? It will be a very technical issue, a further step towards the approval of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), which has been updated due to the pandemic emergency. That is why it is certainly not a vice of the President of the Council of Ministers or of this majority or of the Government. [[Applause.]] It has been dictated by contingent necessity: no desire to delegitimize Parliament. I have heard words without restraint, said in a ludicrous, poor way; terms have been used - in my opinion - not appropriate and not adherent to the path taken and to the state of affairs. The President of the Council of Ministers will therefore come to give clear information, as it should be. By the way, if I'm not mistaken, it shouldn't even be due. The President does not stray from the Assembly: he will make the disclosure and each of the Groups, in an explanation of vote, will be able to express its position. [[Applause.]] Let's add some details. Why this evolution? We continue, with great difficulty, to move forward, because the picture is so complex and constantly evolving, since we have moved from a multiannual financial framework originally of about €1,100 billion; with the pandemic crisis and the addition of the new measures (the next generation EU) we are talking about adding an additional €750 billion, to be made available to the Member States and, in particular, to those States, such as Italy, which have suffered first and with great impact a slowdown in their economy. However, I must thank you for the calmness of some speeches. Senator Romani remained on the technician and had at least the honesty to explain data, more or less consistent with the documents provided by the European Union. Mr President, as I think there is little to say or to add, I wonder and ask this House whether it is appropriate to continue attacking its President-in-Office and weakening our nation's position vis-à-vis the other Member States. [[Applause]] We have to make a common front. And again I call on all my colleagues, including those of the opposition, to the sense of responsibility, not in words, but in deeds. [[Applause]] To weaken our President and Italy's position in a European Council is an act of grave irresponsibility. Therefore the Movimento 5 Stars remains firm on the proposal of an information and not of a communication, which we will have the opportunity to hear in early July, and on that occasion we will be able to express ourselves with the appropriate resolutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u49	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, a great deal has been said before my speech and many of the things that have been said by the opposition colleagues we share. I see the government here, which I thank for being here, since Parliament is, however, a place where the government must interact with the representatives of the people. [[Applause]] I would not want to confuse the seat of representation, which is another thing (Villa Doria Pamphili, seat of representation), with the representatives of the people who are us. [[Applause]] It is us and we are in a place from which it is absolutely necessary to pass to have strength. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because many of the things I would like to say and we have already said to the Government - Mr D'Incà is witnessing this - and everything I am now saying, and I have already explained at the meeting of the Leaders, we have been asking for months. Mr Vice-Ministers, Minister, you must not be afraid of Parliament. [[Applause]] You must not be afraid of yourselves. You must not be afraid of your majority, because you cannot go to Europe overwhelmed by a hood of fear. You can't get anything in Europe if you're afraid. [[Applause]] All Heads of State and Government, all Prime Ministers, all Presidents of the Council of each Member State of the European Union go to Parliament to strengthen their political legitimacy. [[Applause]] They're not afraid of voting. They are not afraid to ask for strength and legitimacy to their task force, because this is the task force in the Italian Republic, the only one really authorized to give the Government strength and content. [[Applause]] You may think we're saying trivial things. But trivial things are not done. Until this afternoon - I saw on the site of the Senate of the Republic - it was written "Communications of the President of the Council" with final resolution, vote and 28 minutes of general discussion dedicated to each parliamentary group. What happened? How can we explain it to someone who looks at us from outside? And let us not deceive ourselves that they do not look at us from the outside; they do indeed look at us and ask us to explain ourselves. I will tell you more: the responsibility is shared by the opposition, because when I am stopped on the street - as happens to all of us - I am asked reason for what has not been given and has been promised, to us in the majority, as to the opposition. They ask us why we do not pay them the Integration Fund; why we do not pay the bonus of 600 euros. [[Applause]] They ask why we don't keep what we promised. They ask us why, while the General States of the economy are being made at the Villa Pamphili office, the Revenue Agency celebrates the General States of Tax and asks 25 million Italians to pay the IMU. [[Applause]] And soon it will demand 33 billion Irpef, Ires, Tari - my mother how ugly these acronyms - with as many regional and municipal additionals. But is this the way to govern? And we, as opposition, can stand and watch without saying anything? Can we send our President-in-Office to Europe without asking him why? We want, demand and demand a vote from Parliament, because it is the only way to give this Government the strength in Europe to bring home the real results to get out of the crisis Covid. We know very well what is needed, and the previous speakers have said so. We do not even want to hear about non-cooperative or obstructive opposition: on the decree-law cure Italy, which is the only one that we have all had the privilege of discussing and amending - unfortunately on the contents you have not even given us the satisfaction of an amendment, if not some miserable agenda - and which was a magnum sea, we have not even tabled 200 amendments. Among other things, we have sublimated them on fundamental content for us, such as the tax moratorium, i.e. the need to pay taxes only on 31 January 2021, for entrepreneurs who are on their knees and can only be raised if 2020 will be a fiscally white year. [[Applause]] , and for the economic operators in the tourism sector, who are not able to start and who on 20 September will find themselves with a season that has not yet begun and the need to go to vote, because they will do so. [[Applause]] At a time when perhaps some tourist season barbarian will be about to communicate, the campaign and election day will begin, but we will talk about this in the next few days. We have asked for tax deduction, deduction and exemption measures, but above all non-refundable contributions to the craft, commercial and industrial enterprise. We have asked for work, work and more work and this Government not to get lost in unnecessary relief, because the income of citizenship given to people who do not deserve them and do not have the right to impoverish the people who have to receive them. [[Applause.]] I realize that these are painful arguments, but I believe that a majority that really loves our country, loves our nation and is truly patriotic can realize their mistakes and remove 800 euros to tax evaders, drug dealers, 'ndranghetists and people who must not have [[Applause]] , to give to those who really must have, but above all to the enterprise, because the only way out of the crisis is the job, not the assistance. And the only way to create work is to help the company recover and restart the cycle of consumption. We would have liked to say this to the President of the Council and we will certainly tell him in ten minutes. We will try to speak quickly, in order to say as many things as possible, to draw his attention, if anyone is talking to him, and in any case, despite and despite him; to give him the strength to go to Europe and bring something home, because the wind of Europe cannot but be intercepted, especially at this moment. You cannot ask anything more, however, than what you have the right to have, which comes from a true, profound legitimization of the only body from which the Government can draw strength. [[Applause.]] Let us all remember this: the Government and the President of the Council are taking away pieces of power and authority, especially to their majority. I know perfectly well what the problems are that move you, keep you and do not make a vote possible, because it would be absolutely divisive, but we could have them too. However, we have the strength and courage to assume our responsibility and to face the value of our ideas with force. [[Applause.]] It is on this assumption, Mr President, and on a deep and deeply felt need, that we say that we stop looking at closed-box measures, in fifteen minutes in the Commission and twenty minutes in this House. [[Applause]] , as if the Senate were a mail station [[Applause]] , where none of us have the right to go into the matter, but he has the duty to vote as if he were blind, obscured. That is not what we call democracy. That is not what we call the representation of the people. This is an unworthy way, for a nation that wants to be called democratic, to ask its representatives to be protagonists of the legislative process. We therefore turn once again to the Government, to Minister D'Incà - I see him legitimately engaged in much higher discussions - and I thank you, Mr President, for all the times in which you urged the Government to be less lax and less permissive about the granting of trust. The period of emergency is fortunately coming to an end: what we are all asking for is standardization. Allow Parliament to express its rightful legitimacy and authority in democratic processes. [[Applause]] I will never tire of repeating it: allow Parliament not to vote on matters of confidence in cattle - I say this to the majority, certainly not to the opposition - which we are not in a position to know the contents for lack of time. [[Applause.]] We have respect for ourselves and, having respect for ourselves, we will have respect for the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u52	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I will try to remain absolutely on the subject: this is a vote on the timetable and it is the timetable that I want to deal with. Mr Fazzolari, with conviction and full of details, has set out the reasons on which we base our request to transform what is intended to be the information of the President of the Council into a communication allowing the vote of the Senate. We are absolutely convinced - I expect the Minister to come out - that there is not much to discuss, Mr President, and I appeal to you. The basis of the last-minute transformation of the communication into information is, in fact, a non-regulatory but subjective reference in the President-in-Office's statement that the European Council meeting would be informal. Have you informed colleagues from other countries that it is informal? We have not read it anywhere: does it confuse "informal" with the fact that the meeting will take place online? The law requires that, before the European Council meets, Parliament vote at the end of a communication. As I have already said, I therefore appeal to you, Mr President, to check beyond the vote on the timetable whether that meeting really is informal or whether, in fact, it is a meeting which presupposes that Parliament should speak with one vote: we cannot violate the law by majority vote, even if the majority and the Government of innovative practices are already introducing many of them. The thing that has now become a bit sickening, Mr Senator President, is that the majority - we have heard this before from our colleague in Movimento 5 Stars - are even presumptuous of sticking to each other every time we disagree. Now there is an axiom: since there has been the coronavirus, woe if the opposition does not agree with the nonsense that so many times the government says and with the disobedience that has given us in the past weeks. My colleague said that what we are doing here as an opposition weakens the role of the President-in-Office of the Council in Europe. My colleague, why don't you try to think the other way around? Why don't you try looking at things with a clear eye? Do you know that if a President of the Council has the vote of Parliament, he is much stronger than if he goes with the vote of Villa Pamphili? [[Applause.]] Have you ever thought about that? In all other countries they do not go to Villa Pamphili before going to Europe; they confront each other, they have a mandate. Or perhaps there is a problem and not with the opposition, but between you, on what mandate to give to Count. And President Conte prefers not to have any and to play on the fact that, if you don't approve what he says, you go to break the toy, that is, the majority and the government. And God forbid you run the risk of calling the Italians to vote! This is the risk that must be rejected in any case. Satan goes back; free and democratic elections go back. Therefore, Mr President, we strongly call for the role of the opposition to be respected, which has only one objective: to ensure that the interests of Italians are not entrusted to the subjective evaluation of a President of the Council without any popular mandate or even without a parliamentary mandate. We want Italy's interests to be truly supported by shared reasoning, which is not there. What is the truth about the ESM? In order to get out - I repeat, Mr President, I entrust you with this task - they are saying that this meeting is informal. We find an external source that says it is really informal; other countries tell us as well. It does not appear to us, while instead we find that in these days and in the last hours in the rest of the calendar there is a race to do without any opposition. But it knows well, Italy, that we will vote on 20 September damaging tourism and families, forcing an electoral campaign in August, under the umbrella, because it is not discussed, and even mixing the referendum vote with the regional vote, which has absolutely nothing to do with it. It is in the timetable now, and also on this, Mr President, we discussed it at the meeting of the group leaders. The majority and the government think that the solution to our problems is in the general states. But even here he betrays some historical ignorance, because the General States - you teach me - during and before the French Revolution were not exactly something that led well to those who promoted them. I wouldn't want it to end - this time incredibly - with a sound political guillotine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u53	Before giving rise to the vote, I would like to make a correction to the timetable. First I said that tomorrow afternoon only the committees involved in the examination of the electoral decree-law will be able to meet, except from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Actually, it's from 3:00 to 4:00. I apologize for this mistake. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to replace the information of the President of the Council with communications, made by Senators Bonino, Romeo, Fazzolari and Romans. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I declare the result of the vote: [[Senators present 259 Senators voting 258 Favourites 119 Contrari 138 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u54	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1786. The rapporteur, Senator Piarulli, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u55	Mr President, the measure before this House consists of eight articles and introduces rules which are necessary in relation to the emergency of Covid. I would like to point out that this measure is the result of the findings of all the political components. After a careful and heated discussion, many opposition amendments were accepted. Article 1 indicates the time-limit for the reform of the wiretapping rules to take effect. In particular, to paragraph 1, letter a), it is expected that the reform introduced by Legislative Decree n. 216 of 2017 on interceptions will apply to the criminal provisions written after 31 Aug 2020. Point (b) of paragraph 1 extends to 1 September 2020 the period from which the effectiveness of the provision introducing an exception to the general prohibition on the publication of acts will take effect. Paragraph 2 extends the entry into force of the provisions of Decree-Law 161 of 2019, establishing that also the new provisions brought by Decree-Law itself apply to the procedures entered after 31 August 2020, with the exception of those relating to the adoption of the decree of the Minister of Justice by which the modalities to be followed for the filing, in telematic form, of the acts and measures concerning interceptions as well as the terms from which the filing in telematic form will be the only allowed. Article 1-bis, with an amendment proposed by the undersigned and co-rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli, unanimously approved by the Commission, allows the prison police to use drones, pursuant to Law No 395 of 1990, to ensure more effective supervision of penitentiary institutions and to ensure security within them. Article 2 makes some changes to the procedural rules on so-called "necessity" permits and "home detention" by way of derogation for the postponement of the execution of the sentence, in accordance with Articles 146 and 147 of the Criminal Code. For both measures, the amendment consists in the provision of a mandatory opinion to be requested by the supervisory judges from the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor or the District Attorney, depending on whether they are prisoners referred to in Article 4 (a) or prisoners subject to the 41-bis regime of the penitentiary order. Amendment 2.0.1, approved by the Commission, reproduces the contents of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Decree-Law No 29 of 10 May 2020, the repeal of which is consequently transposed by the same amending proposal. Article 2 -bis establishes, for surveillance judges who have taken or take measures to admit to house detention or to defer the execution of the sentence on grounds related to the medical emergency from Covid-19 in respect of persons convicted or interned for a specific series of serious crimes, the obligation to assess the actual permanence of the reasons related to the medical emergency that have determined the extra-mural location of the prisoner due to his health conditions. The assessment must be carried out within 15 days of the adoption of the measure and thereafter on a monthly basis. Article 2 (b), in analogy to Article 2 (a), provides for a periodic review of the actual permanence of the grounds for the current emergency, which have led to the replacement of detention in prison by the measure of house arrests against defendants for the same offences. Article 2 -quater intervenes on the discipline relating to prison interviews limited to the period from 19 May to 30 June 2020: in addition to the possibility to carry out such interviews at a distance by means of equipment and connections, the possibility to conduct an interview in presence is reintroduced. The amendment of the rapporteurs 2.0.12, accepted by the Commission, intervenes in the matter of access to the talks with the national guarantor and with the territorial guarantors for the prisoners subject to the ex-Article 41- bis regime of the penitentiary, confirming at the head of the national guarantor of the prisoners the prerogative of the confidential interview as provided for by European and international law, giving the possibility to regional guarantors within the territory of its competence to carry out the videovisive interviews with the restriction of confidentiality and finally provides for an explicit prohibition for local guarantors to conduct the confidential talks with the prisoners subject to the special regime, except the possibility of carrying out guided visits within the institute and the section referred to in Article 41- bis to verify the conditions of life of the prisoners. The rapporteur's amendment 2.0.11 (text 3) deals with the rules on the telephone correspondence of persons in custody, extending their frequency up to once a day in the case of contacts or minor children or family members who are hospitalised or disabled. In the cases of prisoners for offences referred to in Article 4-a of the penitentiary order, the possibility of carrying out one per week remains, without prejudice to the registration of the interview. Article 3 amends Article 83 of the Italian decree-law, which is the main provision in terms of measures to limit the effects of the epidemic on the national judicial system. The decree-law first extends until 31 July 2020, compared with the original deadline of 30 June 2020, the emergency phase characterized by specific organisational measures adopted by the heads of judicial offices. This phase began on 12 May, when the postponement of the hearing and the legal suspension of the procedural terms failed. In addition, the emergency measure complements the catalogue of civil and criminal hearings that cannot be postponed, specifies certain modalities for the remote conduct of such hearings, expressly excluding that in criminal proceedings the hearings of final discussion and examination of witnesses may take place at a distance and allows the electronic filing of documents at the offices of the prosecutor. Other amendments and additions to the text remain important, among which the main ones are those aimed at restoring the original deadline of 30 June for the end of the emergency phase in the judicial offices, without prejudice to the effects produced and the legal relations and that relating to the discipline of the change of generalities for the protection of so-called judicial collaborators. The purpose of this amendment is to allow those who are linked to a person in respect of whom it has been ordered to revoke a measure of change of generality due to a relationship of marriage, civil union or filiation established after the adoption of the aforementioned provision, to prevent the revocation from having effects also on them. Article 4, with regard to administrative justice, provides for the possibility of holding an oral discussion in chamber or public hearings by means of remote liaison, at the request of all parties constituted or at the disposal of the official judge. As a result of the introduction of the telematic hearing, the provision requires the adoption of amendments to the technical and operational rules of the administrative process to a decree of the President of the Council of State. The amendments adopted include 4.3, which provides for the deletion of the filing of the paper copy of courtesy in the electronic administrative process. Article 5 deals with the composition of the college of the Court of Auditors' meetings in the audit. In addition, it is possible for the public prosecutor to make use of remote links in the context of the investigation carried out. Article 6, identical to the proposed text, establishes a platform to allow the management of an alert system in relation to persons who have come into close contact with the positive subjects of the Covid-19 virus in order to prevent risks of infection and take the necessary measures in a timely manner. Article 7 lays down financial provisions. (Applause from the right) Finally, in the course of the Commission's examination, Amendment 7.0.0.3 was adopted, which deals with systems to protect minors from the risks of cyberspace by requiring operators of electronic communications television networks to provide free of charge, between pre-activated and deactivateable services only at the request of users, the activation of filters, navigation blocks and other parental control systems. Finally, Article 8 regulates the entry into force of the decree-law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u56	Minority rapporteurs, Senators Modena and Pillon, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u57	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting of the Commission at which this decree-law was adopted, which virtually brought together the Bonafede Decree-Laws (28 of 30 April 2020 and 29 of 10 May 2020), was a fairly convulsive meeting and also characterised by very strong protests, in particular by a Group, Forza Italia, because the majority did not consider to consider some amendments, in our opinion substantial, and specifically related to the right of defence. The construction that has been imagined, with reference to opinions in the courts and supervisory tribunals, is made in such a way that an attorney cannot even take the acts. I wanted to say this in advance, but I will not dwell on it because, surely, on the matter, our Parent Company in the Commission, Senator Caliendo, will explain to the House clearly and precisely, why it must remain in the proceedings such a fact, what happened with regard to the denial of the right of defence in the context of this particular procedural stage. On the other hand, I would like to base the minority report on certain aspects which I believe should not be forgotten. Meanwhile, here we have an extension of the time when the famous wiretapping reform should come into force. We have had very detailed hearings and once again, in this particular area, we have seen a choral opposition to this reform of interceptions, because of the lack of technology. The magistrates, of small and large holes, reported these kinds of problems, clearly saying that the connections do not work, that the digital archives are not there. The situation is so serious that this is a reform that risks certainly not being implemented because of the overall lack of instruments. So we are talking here only about an extension, which is dictated by the need for the Covid-19, but it is an opportunity to reiterate the importance of this subject, which sees, among other things, on a uniform position both the judiciary and the lawyer, which should still strike. There is another aspect, which I think should be highlighted, because, among the amendments that have been adopted, there is one which also concerns drones and which strengthens an amendment that has already been introduced, whereby the use of drones, as you know, is possible at the head of the coastguard, the police forces and various bodies. Now, we would like to reiterate here (and we will never tire of doing so) that the prediction made with the amendments to the Decree-Law of 18 February 2015, n. 7, subsequently converted into law, which allows for the ordinary activity of the Financial Guard the possibility to use drones, represents an invasive system of freedom of each of us, which probably far exceeds the issues that pertain to and concerning the Immuni app on which I will return later. This use of drones (especially when it is done without any control, or at least a rag of authorization by a magistrate) disposed not for crimes related to terrorism or the mafia, but for normal investigations it represents a vulnus not indifferent (as far as I am concerned, like that to the right to the defence). Another point that I would like to stress, because perhaps it has escaped attention (especially since the first part of the legislation has a criminal nature and therefore attracts more attention), concerns the Court of Auditors. We have tabled amendments on this subject which the Commission has rejected. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of the Assembly, of those who listen to us and of the Government (who perhaps want to open a reflection, because it is a matter of going to affect the erarial damage). The prosecutors of the Court of Auditors cannot be recognized as being able to continue the investigation by listening to the persons informed about the facts through the remote procedure (i.e. to understand us, through the mobile phone, with the police officer who listens and the prosecutor of the Court of Auditors who thus acquires elements). I say this - and I stress this - because one of the reasons why this country is packed (and I think that this approach has entered the government) is not only the abuse of office, but also stems from the fact that no one signs anything anymore because he is afraid that the Court of Auditors will come upon him not so much with the question of malice, but with the jurisprudential interpretation of serious guilt. The Court of Auditors needs to be strengthened, but - in my opinion - not as has been done with the latest amendment to the Code by this Government, i.e. the punitive part. The Court of Auditors, in its judicial function, carries out a fundamental support activity towards those working in public administrations of all kinds and levels. So yes there, but it is not possible to introduce emergency legislation such as the one under consideration the possibility, which has been excluded for the criminal sector, of carrying out remote investigations by the prosecutor of the Court of Auditors in turn. You understand that, even in this case, investigations of an unavoidably media nature will be sought. Another issue that I would like to bring to the attention of this House is the Immuni app. During the auditions we listened to some very valuable reports from teachers, professors and other auditors who said something fundamental: yes, you can create the app (although you have to make, with regard to privacy, corrections that have not been considered), but take care that it will never work if it is not supported by a system that guarantees a mapping of both swabs and serological tests. And that is what we have been told unanimously by our auditors. On this subject too, we had tabled amendments which could at least be considered. Then there is another issue which concerns the more civilistic part, namely the amendments to Article 83. On this subject, the Commission has unanimously focused on imagining that the magistrate must be in the courtroom (i.e., to understand us, he cannot follow the process from home, while he cooks the pens, as someone has said brilliantly). However, on this, the civil chambers, in particular, had tabled amendments, which were rejected, which were more precise with regard to the problems that are actually encountered in the courts. I am thinking, for example, of the problem of coordination for terms or the problem of the right of defence and, therefore, I also call on these aspects - because it is important to reopen the courts, but also the order - to reopen serious reflection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u59	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Pillon.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u60	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 28 and 29 are in essence the result of errors committed by the Government in the previous period. We have really cooperated with the opposition and I must say that this cooperation has also led to some improvement in the text, for which we must certainly give thanks to the work of the rapporteurs. The measure is based on a fundamental problem and, that is, on the fact that we are trying to put in pieces a situation that could be tackled in a different way from the beginning. In other words, if you had listened from the outset to what we had pointed out on justice issues, I do not think it would have been necessary to proceed with the urgent decree. Ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done on the subject of justice and I am addressing both the majority and the opposition. We have a situation of justice that in our country is now suffering chronic difficulties. Also this morning I was in a courtroom and in that courtroom both judges, chancellors and lawyers took the opportunity to represent again the existence of problems that we can no longer ignore. That is why, against the backdrop of this reform, the great problems of justice remain, which have not yet been solved, and we do not see how they will be resolved. I hope that, at last, in the country and, above all, in this Parliament, a serious debate will open which will lead Italy to have justice at the level of that of the other civil and democratic countries of the West. [[Applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, rapporteurs, on the subject of Article 1 (which refers to the postponement of the entry into force of interceptions by trojans) I would just like to say what has already been said in the Commission and, that is, what we told you. You were told, at the time that the decree was passed, that time would not be enough to allow the prosecutors, especially the smaller ones, to adapt to the new legislation, to appoint a manager, to organize the storage of sensitive data obtained through the intercepts through trojans. We also told you that this was an impossible reform to do at no cost. You wanted to leave the clause of financial invariance in particular on Article 1 and, therefore, on the reform of interceptions, but it will not be enough. You will see that you are going to come back to this House and ask Parliament for two things, namely to authorise a new postponement first - you will see that it will not be long before this happens - and then for funding to be released. In fact, it is materially impossible for the prosecutors, especially for the smaller ones, to organize the management of data derived from the intercepts without hiring specialized staff or without training the staff inside them with obvious increase of costs. You will come back to Article 1; we are sure of that. On this I would like to ask a question to the majority: why, once again, have you decided to vote against our amendment 1.0.3 which would have allowed trojan interceptions against paedophiles to be used? [[Applause.]] For what reason do you stubbornly continue to protect the position of paedophiles who, vice versa, under Article 600-c of the penal code, could be better identified and better punished using interceptions? It is an embossing that you have already assumed at the time of the approval of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on interceptions and that you continue to repeat. Let me tell you one thing: we are going to take this amendment back obsessively, until the end of the parliamentary term, until you give up, until you allow the judiciary to use the intercept weapon to detect, strike, punish and punish paedophiles. Article 2 deals with the delicate issue of release. We found ourselves from evening to morning with hundreds of inmates put at home, in some cases even without the lawyers having submitted the request. On this too, I hope that sooner or later someone will have the courage to finally highlight the specific responsibilities that are to be attributed to the Minister. We have tabled a motion of no confidence on this issue and Parliament has decided to save the Minister's chair. You have decided to do this, but the matter remains open. With regard to easy release, we had asked you some questions that you decided to ignore. A first question is an automatism. In this regard, I should really like to thank my colleague, Mr Caliendo, who, with a wise hand and a wise pen, has identified, with amendment 2.0.1/10/1, the key point where the text should have been deleted. In essence, according to the current wording, that according to what we have understood will be the definitive one, since the confidence on the measure will be placed, we will find ourselves with the judge who can safely ignore the request to put the convicted criminal back in jail and left home, simply on the basis of the danger of the existence of the virus. In fact, his negligence, i.e. the judge's failure to reply, will be sufficient reason not to confirm his detention, but to confirm his house arrests, i.e. the fact that the prisoner is out of jail. We are not talking about a protective custody, in which the subject is still not considered guilty by the law, but rather is considered innocent; in the latter case it would be right for the non-decision of the judiciary to lead to the placement of the subject in protective custody immediately at liberty. On the other hand, we are talking about people who have already been condemned definitively, with a judgment passed in court, whose place, therefore, is jail. And you, through this messy reform, allow the judiciary, either with silence, or even worse with any delay due to the offices, in the transmission of acts or other, instead of staying in jail, to be cheerfully at home. We have emphasized this issue, we have asked you to remedy it and it has not been done, and we can only be sorry about that. The second question concerns another amendment which we tabled on 2.10: we had asked for there to be an impossibility for the magistrate of supervision to proceed to release for free in the absence of opinions. We believe that the opinions of the anti-Mafia prosecutor, both national and district, must be indispensable, mandatory, obviously not binding, but that they must be expressed. On the other hand, today time limits have been set, but also very limited, so it is very easy for these opinions not to be issued, not to be transmitted, to be lost in the meanders of the canneries and that, therefore, the courts can decide without having had the opinion of the National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor. This, in our view, is a serious danger, which will probably allow us to repeat episodes such as those we unfortunately had to deal with at this time. On the other hand, today we must absolutely welcome a reform that has been agreed, namely that of authorising calls from prisoners. [[Recalls of the President]] Thank you, President. Then, if you will allow me a few more minutes, I would give up the rapporteur's replies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u61	Forget what you want, but stick to the time of this intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u62	Mr PILON, minority rapporteur. Then I won't give up the replica. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you one more minute. Mr PILON, minority rapporteur. Thank you, President. Then I said: well to the calls from prison with the minor children; it would be nice for the majority now to decide to authorize also the calls of the free dads with their children in a situation of separation or divorce. [[Applause]] In fact, we had cases, during the lockdown, in which the children were deprived of the parental figure (whether the father or the mother does not interest us) for periods of even three months. In our opinion, the powers of the inmates' garantee have been extended a little too much and I would like to say that perhaps it would be time to set up a prison police officer, since eight officers were injured again this week in the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. [[Applause]] Then it's okay to protect the prisoners - we all agree - but bear in mind that there are also prison police officers, who spend the day in there. On Article 3 I am referring essentially to some positive aspects: it was good to specify better that the causes related to the protection of minors and food are actually those that concern the rights of minors, as well as it was good to anticipate, with an amendment of ours and of Brothers of Italy...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u63	I'll give you a few more seconds, but it's already a minute further.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u64	Mr PILON, minority rapporteur. Thank you, I'm going to close quickly. It was good to anticipate the reopening of the courts on 1 July. It is also good to extend the spaces of assisted negotiation. On the other hand, bad, very bad - and I conclude, reserving myself to speak again in the reply - the criminal process remotely: it is not possible to have a criminal discussion remotely, it is not possible to listen to witnesses remotely. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u65	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u66	Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, since the speeches by Mr Rossomando and Mr D'Alfonso of the Democratic Party are also scheduled for general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u67	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. On the contrary, on the occasion, I would like to inform you that the time allowed for all the speeches, as well as for the discussion on the question of trust, where it was intended, brings the closure of our work around 22.30-23, perhaps even after. So if someone else wants to follow Senator Cirinna's example, he can do it freely. She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u68	Mr President, I am speaking on the subject of Article 6, Chapter II, which introduces the Immuni app. I would like to point out that this is the conversion of a decree-law which we briefly define as "prorogation of interceptions and procedural suspensions" and I immediately ask the first question that is of method, then I will come to those of merit. The question of method that I stress is as follows: we have a Decree-Law No 28 of 30 April 2020 which overlaps with administrative acts already adopted, that is, the Decree-Law was launched after the administrative acts that it should regulate. So basically, with the introduction of Article 6, the Government seeks to give legislative cover to fundamentally illegitimate administrative acts. It seems to me that this is a practice that is being consolidated and that we have already denounced, namely that of DPCM Abusive. In the incipit of the aforementioned article, we read: For the sole purpose of alerting people who have come into close contact with positive subjects and protecting their health, this is the function of the Immuni app. I would point out that the first person to be alerted must be Minister Di Maio, who has committed a gaffe note on the microphones of Sky TG24, saying: "Immuni will notify us if we approach infected people." Basically, therefore, the Minister has a vision of the app, which was in fact ironically renamed "Immune." As everyone knows, it serves exactly the opposite, i.e. to declare if in the previous days you have come into contact with a person then turned out positive. Let's get back to the serious stuff and get some credit. There are many technical doubts and also concerns - which we have written in our questions to both the House and the Senate - about the procedures, the criticality regarding the violations of privacy, the problems of cybersecurity, the conflict of interest, the Chinese family office and anything else. We begin procedures: during the fast call for contribution adopted to identify technological solutions for monitoring (so-called contact tracing) neither a selection criterion nor the features of the app were indicated. The data-driven working group, despite this, among the 319 proposals received, selected the Immuni app of the company Bending Spoons SpA, which had not yet realized the product (who was the only selection criterion adopted in this competition). However, an informal invitation to tender was held, with a derogation from the Procurement Code, dictated by reasons of urgency, which in other cases, unfortunately, was not adopted. The Extraordinary Commissioner therefore gave the said company this free licence concession agreement, without Bending Spoons spa providing any reports on the application safety tests. We could continue with the differences and procedural irregularities. However, problems remain on the table about the updated release, made by Bending Spoons SpA, as well as - I stress - the potential dependence of the app on a private company. But let's move on, let's move on to the technical criticalities I am referring to tracking through bluetooth, which - as scholars and experts say - could compromise the same effectiveness of the app. There are therefore doubts about its security and vulnerability of bluetooth systems, the risk of hacking, the spread of false alarms and the re-identification of data. The question then is: how is it considered to guarantee the security of the application and servers, the storage of stored data and the exchanges between the apps and the remote server and how is all this potential risk reconciled with the protection of the freedom and constitutional rights of citizens and privacy? In summary, you have not clarified any concerns about the security, protection of privacy and the effectiveness of derivation and tracking of the app. Along with this, therefore, there is also substantially another problem, because the app works if it is diffused, otherwise it does not need. The question is what percentage of the population the app will be able to reach: certainly not 50-60 percent, which would be a useful sample of diffusion; perhaps 10 or 20 percent? There will always be a portion of people without Internet connection or simply refractory or who does not have the appropriate phone. In short, in a word, this app is a form of government propaganda, because it has technical defects, even of operation, which have been denounced by experts, not by Brothers of Italy. What is the political point that we stress instead? In this way, the Immuni app can become a means of mass surveillance, which risks depriving Italian citizens of the fundamental freedoms constitutionally guaranteed and compromising the right to privacy of personal data. It is equally clear that this app - so exposed and vulnerable - is a strong appeal to cybercriminals, foreign intelligence services, cyber attacks, hacks and companies that could market the famous data. For now we are in an experimental phase (four regions), which will then become operational, but we must remind everyone that this app starts late. Why are you running late? Because you had to go, or rather you had to go, at some point, from a centralized model to a decentralized model and you had to wait until the end of May for the platform of Google and Apple. These are all issues that we had asked with our questions and which were easily predictable, so you had to, or rather had to, run to the shelter before. Doing another notation of color - I say it by the way, we are few, but maybe it may interest - it was certainly not reassuring the beginning. I do not know if you remember the tragicommedia that was consumed for the image chosen for the Immuni app on the institutional site: at first, were represented the mother with the child and the dad on the computer; after the polemics of everyone against everyone - I do not go into the matter - what has been done? The order of the addenda has been reversed, but the sum has not changed, that is, the mother has been represented on the computer and the father with the child in his arms. It would have to be said that the creatives of Bending Spoons are really little, little and laughable fantasy. But let's go back to the other central aspect, namely the vulnerability of bluetooth technology. Without bluetooth it is equally true that the app is ineffective. Again, the user of the app must keep the connection always on, otherwise the system does not work and the bluetooth is not a precision technology; as everyone knows, the signal can be affected and weakened by different variables and factors. To sum up - and I conclude, Mr President - the list of critical issues could be further and we leave it to the experts who have presented it, but one fact must be stressed. We are, indeed, you are entrusting the famous and important tracking of positives to an app - with all the defects and vulnerabilities we have said, with unstable connectivity - and an algorithm: this is not the best solution, nor is it reassuring for our health. At least, at the same time, we need an analog tracking system on the ground, as other countries have done (France and the United States have done), while we have never started this system and we have never talked about it. Then there remains the question of carpet swabs and serological tests, on which Brothers of Italy has done a great deal. Very well: you didn't do any of this and you rely on algorithms and propaganda. Good luck! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u70	Mr President, I will be absolutely quick to allow Mr Aimi to speak more effectively and more punctually than I do. With the decree-law that we are preparing to convert - basically we will convert two decree-laws, No. 28 and No. 29, even if No. 29 is transposed with an amendment that goes within Decree-Law No. 28 - we are before what seems to me to be an intervention the result of a sort of normative fury in part unjustified and also unfounded. It is unjustified because, in my opinion, the matter is largely regulated by the legislator: the matter of detention and the difficulties associated with detention and therefore the postponement of detention on health grounds - I am referring in particular to the most important articles, namely Article 2 of Decree No 28 and Article 2 of No 29 - is regulated in Articles 146 and 147 of the Criminal Code and 47-b, paragraph 1-b, of the penitentiary law as regards house detention. Why did you intervene on this? Because there has been a combination of political situations that you have not been able to control. First of all, the case of Matthew, who came overpoweringly into the political issue after a television show in which a magistrate of the MSC attacks the Minister of Justice saying: you did not keep what you had somehow promised me. Which created an acceleration in the short political-magistracy circuit and, above all, became part of the battle that the magistrates are leading within them. In front of this there was then the clamour due to the so-called three hundred cases of 41-a - as reported by some newspaper - in house detention, practically and in fact in freedom, which is practically not true or, better, partially true, because the condemned to 41-a were not three hundred, but three or at most four (this is the report of the Guarantor of the inmates). All in all, we are talking about an issue that the supervisory judiciary in this country carries out every day in an absolutely rigorous way. And you intervened in the course of a procedure because you missed, or escaped within the DAP, a circular that activated, on 23 March, a series of revisions of the situations of those who are in a condition of health difficulties, that is, in a situation of comorbidity over which evaluation is required. The supervisory magistrate knows very well that, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 684, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as a matter of urgency, when he considers that the supervisory tribunal will take that decision, unheard of alters part, he may order a detention order when he considers that the conditions of health of the prisoner are not compatible with the detention. But this is different. Basically I judge it as a measure resulting from the normative fury, but at the same time also the result of a greedy attitude on the part of this Government, which does not know how to keep its feet on the ground and does not know how to govern difficult processes with its head, such as certainly those that we have lived and are living in these days. The singular aspect is that with Article 2 you have essentially introduced a jugulatory term, because it is not conceivable that in fifteen days there is a re-evaluation of the decisions taken by the magistrate. In fifteen days it is not possible for the magistrate to obtain the opinion of the district attorney anti-mafia on the locus commissioni delicti; in the case of article 41- bis, of the national prosecutor anti-mafia; the opinion of the Region. But what region? Not specified. The Region where there is the detention of the prisoner or the Region where eventually the DAP says that it can resume the detention because it identifies a structure? This is not possible in fifteen days. I remind you that there is no coordination with the other rule of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 which provides that in the hearing in front of the supervisory tribunal, which must be fixed by guaranteeing the free period of ten days pursuant to Article 666 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (that you have forgotten), the defender is entitled to be informed at least ten days before the hearing. Well, compared to this you did not think that there is a further task for the magistrate of surveillance, which is to assure the prisoner the participation remotely, pursuant to the decree-law care Italy. In addition to this, moreover, there is also the other type of opinion, which intersects and has different aims, i.e. that which is not based on the current state of health, but on the agreement, rather on maintaining relations with organized crime. Well, these opinions intersect within this measure by creating a problem of conflict of rules and conflict within the various proceedings. All this is the logical consequence of what this Government does. When there was the case of Matthew, frankly I thought that the only reason Bonafede had to stay where he was is precisely the way in which, at that time, he was attacked by a magistrate; however, Bonafede should theoretically acknowledge the inability to manage a difficult ministry such as that of justice at this time and give up, with the honor of the weapons that can certainly be given, this function to others, at a difficult time like this. In fact, very disturbing details are emerging in the management of this whole affair, in the management of the DAP and of what has been there. My position, however, is that of those who believe that this is an absolutely dangerous, useless intervention, so much so that on three occasions it has already been the subject of an appeal before the Constitutional Court, which has already been requested to intervene for violation of Articles 24 and 111 of the Constitution, i.e. the right of defence and for violation of the right to health. Maybe someone doesn't think exactly like me, but I think that Article 27 is absolutely clear: the penalty cannot consist of treatment contrary to humanity. But we come to the end of my speech, because I have also abused the patience of the few left here: basically, I do not think that this Government can humanly think of listing who knows what successes in its curriculum, because actually, after the approval of Law No. 3 of 2019, so-called scrambled sweeps, you celebrated thinking that you have won the corruption and we know that it is not true; you celebrated when you introduced the trojan also to control the improper use of the copier: the post officer who improperly uses the copier for a personal need, if maybe he is unpathetic to someone can also be intercepted and can see an investigation of this type started. Interception by trojan is also allowed between not present, because it is sufficient to arrange the preventive seizure of the medium. The reform of the criminal trial, fortunately - I say - has not been seen and a criminal trial has on average 30 hearings. In conclusion, I am sorry for the friends of the League who unfortunately bear the legacy of an unnatural alliance that was made in the first part of the legislature and I address today to the guarantor part of the Democratic Party, to say that you cannot think of confusing the interventions you have carried out as social justice operations; yours are interventions of revenge from the social point of view, which is an absolutely different thing: a fight against the privilege of others, not a fight against... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u71	I ask all my colleagues to stick to the schedule, because there are really many members to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u73	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to keep to the time allowed. Frankly, I am extremely concerned about the situation in which Italian justice is being debated and not today. This House has for some time taken measures contrary to the general principles of our order. I will address the many people who are listening to us, particularly from this very Chamber, to the last patrol of guarantees, or rather of those who still guarantee the proper functioning, the proper functioning of the process. Unfortunately, we are now a minority. I hope that this will not happen in the future and I will try to explain the reasons why, when we take certain measures, perhaps even with boredom, with satisfaction, we do not realize that unpleasant things can happen in life. It is the paradox of life itself, because it is thought that the worst can happen only to others and we do not think, instead, that the worst can happen to each of us. And then I would start from this very reflection. The problem obviously concerns everyone; as Latin wisdom omnes et simulati said: all those who even today think they have more than in their phone, in their own DNA, not an Immuni app, but a sort of immune process and who, instead, for a misunderstanding or a phrase said in the wrong way, find themselves having to respond to particularly serious facts. You will have already understood that I am referring to the deadline for the entry into force - my speech will be on this - of the regulation of interceptions. Here too I really wonder who could give birth to such an obnoxious: certainly not a jurist, certainly a politician of low caliber. It would be enough just to think about the terrible consequences that can happen, because the meshes of this measure have opened. Today everyone is at risk, so we really enter - I welcome - the order of totalitarianism without borders of Orwellian memory. In fact, you have been able - I tell the majority - to overcome even Orwell. You have overcome it in reality; in particular, you have done so far by overcoming the distopias that he himself imagined. We are, therefore, in a particularly delicate situation. You have put in place commercial measures, reclamations, such as the corrupt sweep law: the title is beautiful; then we go to see exactly what happened, what is in the concrete, and we realize that the effects are not those. In this House we have had the provision on prescription, a millennial institute, known in ancient Greece; even the Greeks, Demosthenes themselves, praised it. Only constitutional murder and crimes were imprecribable, the others were prescribed in five years. It was foreseen in the Romanesque order, in medieval law. I could continue also remembering the code of late eighteenth-century Leopold of Tuscany or our land (I address the former adviser with whom we were together in the Region, today senator like me, Alberto Balboni): the extensive criminal code, which provided for the prescription. But there was only one order that did not foresee it: the barbaric order. That is the path that has been taken. Now we have the provision on wiretapping, or better still on trojans, systems of picking up from mobile phones or computers. We are, therefore, in a very difficult situation, perhaps born also by the imagination of a minister who does not distinguish the crime manslaughter from the arson, who managed to attract the antipathies of half order of Italian lawyers. A minister who even declared that there are no innocent people in jail, forgetting a very precise figure, namely that from 1992 to 2018 we had not 27, but 27,000 innocent people in jail. If this ethical hole does not break in the heart and soul of anyone, it will be enough to think about the erarial, economic damage: 700 million euros. The system of the trojan inserted on the mobile phone or computer is an absolutely cowardly system, a system of reconnaissance, exploration, search of life ducts of each of us that will then be all housed inside the archives of the prosecutor's office of the Republic. Maybe they don't need them today, but tomorrow or the day after tomorrow they do. There is even a vulnus for the defense, because sometimes the defender talks to his client who is intercepted and the prosecutor will know perfectly what the lawyer's defensive conduct will be. You have also managed in the extraordinary enterprise to extend the meshes to this application, not only to public officials, therefore, but also to those in charge of public service under Article 358 of the Criminal Code. Here there is a whole series of people who may not know, but who may also be the subject of this particular attention, from the custodians of cemeteries to the janitors, passing naturally to the public employees, pharmacists, posters, a whole series of television conductors, even, with the judgment n. 12 of the Court of Cassation of 2009, the parish priests. All these categories will be intercepted, minus one (I want to remember, Senator Pillon): that of pedophiles. What a strange Italy! I therefore call for serious consideration to be given to these issues. We will, moreover, have a public administration spied on, which will have its hands tied, which will have to put on the walls of its rooms a reworked re-edition of that old manifesto of Boccasile that circulated during the war, that said "Taci, the enemy listens to you," that will become "Taci," the proxy listens to you. They say: evil do not do, fear not have. But this is not the case, because the interpretations that can also be given to an interception are the most varied: Do you confess, Counselor Balboni, the crime we are contesting you? "Yes, yes," he could answer, as if to say "Figures."If we then reread this decontextualized phrase, we are faced with almost a double confession. Speaking of trojan horse, the Trojan horse, this incredible tool, since we always talk about history it is nice to mention it too: in 1250 before Christ falls Troy thanks to the penetration of the horse, the city is on fire. I would not like us to find ourselves in the year of Lord 2020 to have made confetti of our code of criminal procedure and our principles and perhaps to set them on fire, because this is the situation in which justice is debated today and which is present and evident in the eyes of all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u75	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the great concern caused by media controversy prompted Minister Bonafede to prepare as a matter of urgency - one can say to horas - two decree-laws, both aimed at the political objective of confirming, with the effect of reassuring the most alarmed fronts, that the protection of collective security should remain at the forefront of the government agenda. I shall focus on a number of aspects, in particular Article 2 of the regulation, which I believe is predominantly political. The Commission's response is to introduce some procedural changes. With regard to the first, it is expected that, if the request for permission is made by prisoners for one of the crimes provided for in Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the competent authority, before ruling, is required to seek the opinion of the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of the capital of the district where the court that issued the sentence is located and, in the case of prisoners subject to the regime provided for in Article 41-a, also that of the national prosecutor anti-mafia and anti-terrorism regarding the topicality of the connections with organized crime and the danger of the subject. In both cases, except where exceptional urgency is required, the permit may not be granted earlier than 24 hours after the request for such opinions. We cannot therefore accept more than a few concerns in this regard. First of all, it would have been preferable to set the opinion as a reasoned and detailed one. In this way, it would have been prescribed to the representative of the accused to justify his conviction on actual and actually up-to-date information, along the lines of the theoretical provisions of Article 4-a of the penitentiary order for the granting of benefits. In the absence of such an obligation of motivation, the risk is that the district attorney and the national attorney merely express negative opinions, even unmotivated, which cannot add anything on the cognitive level, but may eventually aggravate the motivational burden of the supervisory judge. Potential problems of coordination with the rule of Article 4-a of the penitentiary order, which provides that the granting of benefits is even prohibited to prisoners and inmates for malicious crimes, when the national anti-mafia prosecutor or the district attorney communicates, on initiative or on the alert of the competent provincial committee for order and public security in relation to the place of detention, the topicality of links with organized crime. As you know, this is a questionable rule in principle and not quite clear in its wording either because the scope of application is unclear, or because it seems to give a veto power to the District Attorney or the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, or, finally, in the part where it entrusts the activation of the information on the topicality of the connection with organised crime to the same body of the prosecution. It is clear that, in practice, they cannot know the individual events relating to requests for the application of benefits or alternative measures by prisoners. Therefore, it is essentially impossible for them to act in relation to individual instances. It is therefore difficult to assume that before regulatory intervention the anti-mafia prosecutor was in a position to send the information to the supervisory judge, but this is not impossible especially if it is considered that it could be called into question by the provincial committee for public order and security. It will not escape, therefore, that in relation to organized crime offences there remains a potential conflict between provisions. It would seem, however, that in the cases expressly referred to in the new Article 30-a, the most stringent rule provided for in Article 4-a (3) cannot be applied. It would be desirable for this potential coordination problem to be overcome and, above all, the obligation of the opinion to be extended to include the possibility of applying the measure of deferment of enforcement. Otherwise, one might witness the paradox of a surveillance judge who is obliged to seek the opinion of the anti-mafia prosecutor when the application of a surrogate home detention is at stake and may, on the other hand, disregard it when it comes to a postponement of execution. The Decree-Law of 30 April 2020 intended to spread the message that the supervisory magistrates should nevertheless be subject to the supervision of the prosecutors. This is why an opinion has been required, as appropriate, by the national prosecutor and district prosecutors for the purpose of granting extra-convict measures to perpetrators of organised crime. With another decree-law (the one of May 10), conceived even more hastily, it is evident and evident the face of a measure with especially symbolic-communicative effectiveness. While the objective of political self-saving pursued by Minister Bonafede is clear, there is very little legal contribution that this decree-law should make in terms of true and substantial innovation. It is, in fact, a measure that does not go much beyond repeating forms of judicial control over subjects subject to extra-convict measures, which the legal order already previously allowed, adding, however, the forecast of a new unrealistic timing, as it is not compatible with the workloads of the judicial offices that should observe it. First of all, with respect to the mandatory opinion of the prosecutors, this is a legislative choice which has not helped to achieve a more reasonable balance between opposing instances of prevention and protection of the fundamental rights of the person, but which reveals its true political significance: to demonstrate to the public the ability of the Executive - if necessary - to restrain the judges, on whose work it is good to monitor; it can also be deduced the implicit solicitation, always addressed to the judges, to make the balance prevail more on the security side. In the recent decree what is introduced again is the prediction that judges will have to re-evaluate the permanence of health reasons related to the health emergency in very short times. At the same time, it is clear that before issuing new measures, the judiciary should ask the competent authorities whether there are places available in the prison health facilities or in the protected wards of hospitals where the sentenced person can continue the detention without prejudice to health conditions. The political message is obvious, even if implicit. The judiciary is invited to re-enter as soon as possible the Mafia prisoners already released, but, apart from the at least doubtful legitimacy of such solicitation - and the latest judicial events are proof of this - and the no less doubtful its suitability to effectively condition judicial production, a certain effect of repeated checks within short deadlines will be to inflate further the offices concerned, which will therefore need an extension of staff resources, which are also insufficient for years. It is also to be expected that periodic checks on the individual health conditions of the released persons and, at the same time, on the general trend of risk of infection, as well as on the possibility of placing in protected intra-mural or external health facilities are intended to increase information transmitted mainly on paper and to make even more complicated the interlocations between offices of different nature and competence. In short, it is to be feared that bureaucratic burdens may, in the end, be a further obstacle to balancing judgements based on an effective knowledge of all relevant factual data in the different concrete cases. The purpose of the ministerial initiative is to revise the measures to replace the precautionary measure in prison with house arrests for accused persons of organised, terrorist or subversive crime under the 41-a regime, in the clear logic of the king's perpensa. Palese appears to be a sort of presumption of inadequacy of measures already issued, since they refer to elements of assessment that, already before the decree-law, were the subject of a weighted examination of the judge. It manifests the prison-centric and accusatory logic, where it is handed to the prosecutor a verification that a party should carry out unheard of alters part, in clear violation of the contradictory on the judgment issued by the judge. Evidently critical, where it is a procedural rule that only disposes for the measures already adopted, forgetting those to be adopted. Singularizing the interlocation of the judge with the President of the Regional Council in order to ponder local health situations, while the information coming from the DAP constitutes an additional redundant element, where already acquired by the prosecutor in the phase of verification preliminary to the request for restoration. The reference to the possibility for the judge to arrange for investigations on the conditions of the accused's health, possibly also with expertise, first possible and possible procedural moment of confrontation certain in the contradictory with the defense, up to this moment pretermed. A minister of silent justice in the period of maximum expansion of the virus and in the midst of an epidemiological emergency, in the real risk of spreading with devastating effects in prisons, to date avoided precisely thanks to the balanced and balanced choices of judges of surveillance and cognition, aroused by torpor only in order to ride a wave fed by a television broadcast [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u76	I remember that those who have the written text of their speech, which at that point can be even longer than ten minutes, can also leave it to the record. He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u77	Mr President, I read the title of the decree-law on urgent measures for the functionality of conversation and communication interception systems, further urgent measures in the area of penitentiary law.......................................................................................................................................................................................... In my opinion, there is only an urgent change of the Minister of Justice. You'd have to send him home now. [[Applause.]] I'll explain why. This is urgent for the country. In my opinion, we are aware of a bankruptcy system. It is before everyone's eyes: we have seen the riots in the prisons with nearly 6,000 prisoners involved, 40 wounded agents, many escaped, who were then fortunately recovered. It's one of the darkest pages in our country. Do you know how the Minister of Justice will be remembered? Like the minister of release! [[Applause.]] Years and years of work and then? You were the ones who said, "Honestness! Honesty!Today, however, you will be remembered as those who have released the mob bosses, period. [[Applause.]] I come to the point. I have taken as a reference the interceptions, the length of the processes and, above all, the app referred to in Article 6 of the decree. We started with the brilliant idea to try it in four strategic regions (Abruzzo, Liguria, Marche and Puglia) that have few infections compared to all the rest of Italy. The test is done in these four regions. Secondly, there is a fear that some hackers may enter. Let's remember that, to date, there are 2.5 million data in that app; according to your accounts, for this app to work it takes at least 25-30 million registered citizens, we'll see what happens. The company that has been entrusted with this app is private and there are also funds through a contact of a Chinese participation. I'd be a little scared. Luckily, she's not Venezuelan, but she's Chinese. Then there is a geopolitical reason why they are given by our citizens. The thing that impressed me most about this app, apart from the technical aspect and the fear of what can be done with this data, privacy and how it will be stored, is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs said in a broadcast that it is an app that serves to understand if who comes close to you is positive at Covid. You didn't agree on that. Let us all remember that the app does not have this function. You as a government should remember that and you should not give false information to the citizens. We really hope - I hope so - in a change of the Minister of Justice because this country deserves much more. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u79	Mr President, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government and also those who have preceded me in relation to the work we are doing in this House. I would like to thank them because I have taken an effort, even if at times the effort is as if it had targeted another topic and not the one listed in the text of Decree-Law No 30 of 2020. I have been attentive to every word used and every reasoning developed and I want to help with an image that gave me a good professor of politics science. The professor was the Milanese Lorenzo Ornaghi, who was at the time Minister, and explained the distinction between laity and clerics in the public debate: one is clerics when one keeps in mind only one's ideal, ideological and cultural belonging, which then takes you off the road to the reading of reality; one is lay when one can distinguish, preserving merit, penetrating the issues that are on the agenda. We do not have a debate today on the reform of justice. Today we have an issue on the agenda that, if we are faced with cultural honesty, makes us understand that we must allow the reaction of our system to the pandemic. We have been struck by a break in civilization that has not excluded any area of individual and collective life; among the sectors of collective life there is justice, which refers not to any right, as the competent experts who have spoken before me know, but precisely to aspects concerning the fundamental rights of individual and collective progress in the economy, in relations with public administration, towards this titan that is accounting responsibility. But this is not the place to scan and proportionalize the size of accounting or legal liability. Now we must give cover and legitimacy to the need for the order to react to this unpredictable and unforeseen break. There are aspects that I would like to highlight, in a dialogical and honest relationship culturally with those who have already spoken, with those who will speak and also with those who are not at this moment engaged on the point, who will return to it perhaps when we need to put our hands back and "do maintenance"; in fact, I do not believe that we have reached the end of the need for intervention on this matter, convened and claimed by the pandemic. There are some aspects that I am very interested in, such as the detailed reform of the functioning of the Court of Auditors as regards the combined control sections. I speak before long-standing personalities, magistrates, lawyers and even of success in courtrooms: but it seems to you that it is something of little account the effort that the Court of Auditors has made, even within it, in fertilizing and nourishing the idea that the central branches of control could also be able to compose not only with the judge rapporteur or with the judge of central control, but also with the presence of the judge of peripheral control, thus establishing a capacity of experience and awareness of jurisprudence, which also meets the need that the order has of the so-called nomophilachia? I do not believe that bringing from 10 to 15 the magistrates who make up this central control meeting section is merely a matter of organization; it is also a matter of quality of the final product, if it is true - as has been said - that we must also have an attitude of expectation, of aid and of collaborative control towards the Court of Auditors: it is the specific of the control sections. We have audited for years in Parliament a giant of the Court of Auditors, Manin Carabba: through his reports to Parliament he helped, suggested, indicated, addressed, at a time when the use of financial resources required a culture of control about, for example, the reordering of accounting documents, reporting. This is what we will be collecting, if we give rise to the establishment of the deliberate law today, which will then become a norm, as well as the other part, added with an amendment for which I would like to thank the Commission and its members, who have devoted themselves with commitment to reading the content of amendment 5.1, which has meant that in this special section, enriched with the arrival of competences from the territories, the competence to judge contracts secreted with regard to the supply of strategic goods and services is determined. It does not seem to me that this is secondary and it seems to me that it should be read in its specific nature, not as to the fact that this text lacks the organic reform of justice. I too would like to take part in the next debate - I hope on the ground - on the organic reform of justice, raising an issue of which I have been informing for years. I am going to inform myself - as Senators Mirabelli and Cucca, Senator Rossomando, the President of the Commission and colleagues with whom to exchange views know - and I would like soon to see the Italian legal system equipped with a reform that establishes the obligatoryness of video recordings during the preliminary investigations when people are heard about the facts, because there is sometimes a "safari" created between some rates of judicial police and citizens who may have found themselves or found out or done and it is not right that they lose the dignity, citizenship and fulfillment of the human person. We are working to ensure that a bill gains the maturity of the favorable opinions of all, but today is not the time to install this other element within the work we are doing. As I have appreciated very much what has been written so far, but I do not exclude that it should again be subjected to innovative writing, that article 6, where the need for the order is contemporaneously contemporaneous and weighted, when it is convened with respect to the theme of health security (the so-called tracking of position and not of geolocation through the warning of the Covid-19) and, on the other hand, to the protection, almost a protective custody, towards the core essential of the dignity of the person. It's an advanced point. Of course, there are still inaccuracies to be dealt with, such as the sanctioning process, but it is not necessarily possible, on the way, to lose our hands. What is the secular prayer I would like to do? We are all convinced that we have experienced an extraordinary emergency, an emergency that even knows no boundaries and has attacked the planet. We need the collaborative point of view, but by dissecting this theme, this moment and this emergency compared to what else we should do. With these words I have tried to make my contribution, thanking the Commission for the work it has done and for the work it will do afterwards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u80	Thank you, Senator D'Alfonso. So it has proved that when you speak with your arms you can feel better in the times. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u81	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u82	Mr President, I am making my speech with sadness, because the discussion of this decree-law, although it is not as comprehensive as it should have been, I think would have deserved more attention from all political forces. I do not think we are honoring those roses up there, holding a fairly sterile debate, in my opinion, beyond some speeches, such as that of the senator of Alphonsus who just preceded me. I believe that Parliament's very role must be, as has rightly been said, to bring something more and to make its contribution to the legislative texts. With this sadness I also have to ask with a thread of controversy - you will allow me - where Minister Bonafede is. I would like to thank Mr Giorgis, who was present during all the work of the Commission, but where is Minister Bonafede? Is he with the President-in-Office of the Council to the General States? The very preparation of these general states, in conjunction with Parliament's work, is, in my view, an unprecedented institutional scorn. [[Applause]] Because if it is true what President Conte says on several occasions that Parliament is sovereign, that Parliament decides and that it has to report to Parliament, we are here to debate an important piece of legislation without the Minister and without the President of the Council. To talk about what? To talk about justice? Several times I have said - and I continue to do so - that the justice sector is the first point that a State must take care of: speaking of justice, in fact, we talk about freedom and, if we do not follow or take care of the sector, obviously we do not care about the freedom of our citizens and our State, so we are just filling the mouth with so many beautiful words and many beautiful Christs, but then in the end we reduce to vote on trust (and the next, if I remember correctly, will be the twenty-second). I do not believe that we honour all the fathers of law and Parliament by continuing to delegitimize this House: I always say that in all my speeches, because I strongly believe in the parliamentary function. In the Commission, I believe that we have also done a good job, because in any case, while we have kept our distance on certain issues, we have, even animatedly, been discussing each other's issues. I think, all in all, we have done a good job. In the debate in the Commission I started with the intention, expressed by some of the majority, of not trusting: I understood, colleagues, but in the end you put trust in it; we are talking about important things and justice, as I said before. Let's start from the beginning: we use a decree-law, that being this an emergent period - as I am told and I feel so much about it on television - is fine; but then, if you had to use the decree-law, we could have avoided putting trust, so much it wouldn't have changed anything, unless there is something else, maybe some stomachache. I don't know about that, and we'll only find out if we live, probably. On the substance, this decree-law, which could have been brought to the vote serenely, what are you talking about? First of all, we postpone the decree-law on interceptions: it was said - I myself took the floor during the general discussion - that you had not listened to the prosecutors of the Republic, who had told you to stop and wait, because they were not ready; it is by chance, as Senator Pillon has quite rightly repeated in the Commission and even during his report, we had told you. Again, you did not listen: you did not do it in the Commission, neither when examining the other measure, nor now; of course, we are only having these discussions because we have to draw up a register. We should do the general states of justice, but we obviously cannot do that either, because within this provision I see a legal text made in some chamber of the Ministry, in which those who find themselves do not have the slightest knowledge of what really happens in the world and in the classrooms of the courts; otherwise it would not explain why on this measure and in general on the action of government in the matter of justice Minister Bonafede and the Government in general have managed to unite the position of all. The lawyers and the criminal and civil chambers have already expressed - and will do so shortly - their opposition not only to this provision, but to all the procedural activities that have been introduced by this Government. Not only that: the magistrates also magically complained about this and I myself could see in the various courts, given the total chaos that reigns in their classrooms, however a position taken. We are well aware that the magistrate must rightly speak carefully and weigh his own words, because it represents thirdness and judgment. Here too, however, we have seen magistrates take sides several times, denouncing the total lack of legislative adequacy of the individual rules. So let's not talk about polemics; on the other hand, however, if we really want to do so, let's also talk about the famous releases. So we come to make a measure that tries to put patches, where technically there was nothing to patch up: if we listen to the words of Minister Bonafede, in fact, he has nothing to do with it, because it has nothing to do with the Ministry of Justice and it is decisions of others. Excuse me, but if justice doesn't work, whose fault is it? Is it the Minister of Agricultural Policy? Honestly, if it is not the fault of the Minister who, in any case, has the burden of overseeing the execution of justice and the functioning of justice systems, who must watch over them? On the other hand, in many other measures we have had the opportunity to see what is the regulatory system carried out by the current Minister, the current Ministry and the current Government. If we really have to go and vote on a delegated law on the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, if we really have to go and vote on closed and armored packages on the reform of the processes - to give just a few quick examples - obviously, I add, there is also a democratic problem, and I take responsibility for what I say. With regard to the issue of release - as we have said here and repeated over and over again - we first saw that there have been riots in prisons (and full solidarity once more with all the prison police officers who are working and who are trying to protect, essentially imprisoned for work), then the controversy has arrived and then it will come to distrust. We have tried to bring to Parliament's attention ministerial action which is totally inadequate for us. Here, too, the political reason prevailed over the reason of law and here too we have put a patchwork. In short, let us go on with patchwork, but I do not believe that this is a coherent, fluid and fully shared action, as both the Minister and the President-in-Office of the Council continue to say, otherwise we would have had other answers. I recall very quickly that I tabled an amendment to the Commission, which was suggested by legal practitioners among other things, calling for the chancellors, those who basically carry out the proceedings and allow the magistrates to carry out their activities, to work in smart working. There are no technical skills in the Ministry: this was the answer. Honestly, in the face of an administration of justice within which this justification is given, the problem remains. [[Comments]] That was absolutely the motivation, Senator Mirabelli. We're going to review the shorthand report. I'm about to finish. I do not want to judge, attack or make controversy with anyone but, in summary, without the improvements that may have been made in the Commission, within the decree-law that we are about to convert I read as much as one: I would, but I cannot. The pupil committed himself, but could not get to the full promotion. I therefore ask the Minister to apply a little more, not so much from the point of view of the law, because he has alongside those who probably know more about it than he does, but politically. Listen more and not only to those who are inside the chambers of the Ministry, but those who practice the law, "eat" the right every holy day: I refer to all the operators of the law (lawyers, magistrates). That's where you have to go and listen, because there are really needs there and that's where true justice is practiced, not in the secret chambers of the Ministry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u83	Colleagues, I invite everyone, please, to a more precise respect of the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u84	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u85	Mr President, I will speak only on one aspect of the decree-law, which is basically what Senator Isabella Rauti spoke about, but from another point of view. I will therefore focus on the article which specifically concerns the Immuni app and therefore the contrast to the Covid-19. There may be an incongruous aspect to the decree-law, which brings urgent measures for the functionality of interception systems. It might look like an addition and maybe it was conceived as such. In fact, in the text of the decree-law is indicated as a further measure, at the end. It is not an addition - perhaps it has not been fully understood - but it is the heart of the problem, because the Immuni app is about what is fundamental to us, that is, the sphere of the rights of the person. It concerns you not only in the instrument that we use, but for the scenario that opens. In fact, the scenario of collective interceptions, global interceptions, the State that controls people more or less effectively and the States that control States opens up. This problem concerns the sphere of the rights of the person and of privacy with respect to the state organization, but also concerns the sphere of values, interests and national security with respect to the control that other countries and that other organizations can carry out in our territory towards our citizens and, in general, our state institution. The scenario that opens is extremely important and I am speaking here, not surprisingly, also in the light of the document that the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic has sent to Parliament on the Immuni app. I say this to my fellow Members of Parliament: I and five other senators in this House have been delegated to represent you in the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic, which, as you know, acts in a very particular legislative area, including the obligation of secrecy on the acts and hearings it carries out. There is no doubt that the second document which the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic has produced in this parliamentary term is that relating to the Immuni app. The first document, the first report in the previous years of this legislature, deals with a similar issue, namely 5G and therefore telecommunications infrastructure. I believe that it is necessary to point out in this House and, through it, also to our citizens that if the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic has approved two documents prepared for Parliament (the first on 5G and the second on the Immuni app) in two years of legislative activity, it means that it attaches great importance to these issues for national security. Why are these issues important? The 5G is now clear to everyone, probably, also to our public opinion. The Immuni app may look like a small thing, but it opens up a huge scenery. It opens it not only with regard to the effectiveness of the instrument - and I do not want to make any controversy - which, among other things, I believe will enter into force on national territory today. The effectiveness of the instrument depends on how many citizens will use it; unfortunately, in the state, a very small number. The effectiveness of the instrument is not only about the number of swabs that are made: the number of citizens who download the app needs to be large, the number of swabs and reliefs made and the system must be interoperable with that of the other European apps. If it is not interoperable, if we rightly open borders (and we hope that millions of European tourists will arrive in mass again and immediately in the next bathing season practically begun), if they do not develop and mass tampons are not made and if the Italians do not download it to a fair extent (30, 40, 50 percent), the app is ineffective, indeed it is counterproductive. There is always a balance between guaranteeing privacy and tackling the Covid-19 phenomenon. If this balance is achieved, the effectiveness of the measure is achieved; but if this balance is not achieved, the effectiveness of the measure is very limited, in the face of a significant transfer of personal data. Moreover, this transfer of personal data opens up a problem that concerns not only privacy and the person, but national security. The other day, the German Chancellor, who made herself a champion of the values of the person and of European civilization, told us that probably in our European civilization, in the face of new threats, we will have to reduce the rights of the person's freedom. He didn't say anything at random. It is therefore a very delicate frontier and balance. It is worth creating such an app if it is not effective because few people download it, because the swabs are too limited and why is there no system of interoperability with other European apps? Probably not worth it. However, the scenario that has opened up is extraordinarily important and I bring it to the attention of our Parliament. It is not just about, as we pointed out in the Parliament' s report on 5G, for example, the use of Chinese technology; it is not just about the control that some authoritarian systems develop within them, because China can implement the app that it wants and control its citizens under every measure, indeed in this way it has found the mass weapon for the internal social control of the country (that mass weapon that must always be tried and this is the opportunity to do so and to refine it) and finally knows how to control one and a half billion people and not just them. In this case, however, the question also concerns the other frontier, the western border. I would like to point out to everyone that we are adapting to the choices made by two Western American multinationals who, by making a cartel (Apple and Google), told the states what they had to do. Europe was moving towards a verticalized system, so Germany, France, so was Italy. Google and Apple, which have the monopoly, have carteled and told the states the system they had to implement; two private multinationals, whose properties are unknown, have told the states that instead they no longer had to implement a verticalized system, but a decentralized one, apparently more to guarantee the citizens, but also less effective. Germany has adapted, we have adapted, but France has not done so because it is ahead of us and is trying to implement its own system. Mr President, I would like to complete this concept so that it remains in this Chamber and for the Italian citizens. France did not adapt and said it would make a national system, if anything verticalized. Let's see if he can. However, I mean that Italy has had to adapt because, like other European countries, it does not yet have a supranational technology that frees us from the private multinationals that manage this matter. Moreover, even more, like other European countries, Italy does not have its own system of national cloud, of collective memory, of collective cloud that guarantees the sovereignty of the national data of people as today is absolutely necessary in front of the new frontiers and in the global conflicts that pass through the immaterial networks and the control of data, because those who know and control the data control the nations. We therefore have a duty, once this scenario is opened, to open a discussion in our country and to implement legislation that allows Italy to create a national cloud system and also to have a technological system that breaks us from foreign domination, perhaps together with other European nations, because the national cloud system must be integrated with a European cloud system. This is the frontier of the future, this is the border of sovereignty, this is the border of national security. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u86	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, as a premise, in my speech, since it is justice and in the light of the sad events that have taken place at the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, and not only, I cannot fail to express closeness and solidarity to the prison police: honour to the men and women of the blue Basques! [[Applause.]] With a joke, that maybe someone could pose as a bad joke, I could say that where the coronavirus couldn't, the government could. In many contexts, in fact, the Government has done much worse than this damn pandemic than the answers it should have given Italy and the Italians. He did so in the management of the health emergency; he did so in the management of the economic and social matter. He did not give concrete, effective and quick answers to entrepreneurs, professionals, families, tourism, and many other sectors, and unfortunately he was able to do very badly even in the field of justice. An emblem: it even led to war between poor people in the courts. In many courts they had to fight lawyers and chancellors because the chaos was the master and the state was completely absent. I do not want to repeat what my colleagues have already said. I would like to make a very brief but contextual speech, because I think it can help each of us for future work, but above all it can help Italians understand what is happening in the justice system at this time. What happened? We are now examining a decree-law in a context which - as some colleagues said before - is sad, worrying, gloomy. We come from the story of the DAP, which starts from the appointment of the leader who then resigned, to arrive at the riots in the prisons, to the cheerful release. Speaking of which, shall we say in this House what emerged in the anti-Mafia Commission today during the hearing of Dr Romano of the DAP? Two events have been highlighted - one note, the other less - which must lead us to the end of the matter. What's the best known one? We noted this in this House during the debate on the motion of no confidence against Minister Bonafede, namely that the most resounding release of the boss of the Casale Pasquale Zagaria was caused by a DAP error. Dr. Romano admitted this: an error of that office that did not find the solicitation that was made by the surveillance court of Sassari. The lesser known story, which today very clearly admitted Dr. Romano, is that the famous DAP note of March 21 was not delivered by a handful of DAP offices. It is a note that has been shared with several hands - I repeat, the note that started the release of the Mafia bosses - and accepted by Minister Bonafede. [[Applause.]] This is what emerged today during the hearing of Dr. Romano. The event took place in a context in which there were the resignations of all, except those of Minister Bonafede. All have resigned: from the head of the DAP to the collaborators of Minister Bonafede, but the Minister remains there, while aware of his failures. There was talk of the decree-law release, which was immediately censored by both the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Sassari supervisory tribunal, by the Spoleto supervisory court. Everyone has admitted that this is a method that neither the judiciary nor citizens' rights are guaranteed. Attention, ladies and gentlemen: with regard to the relationship between politics and the judiciary - as we have said several times in this House and not only - politics fails when it abdicates to the judiciary, but politics also fails when it dumps on the judiciary, and this has happened at the moment, with respect to both the note of 21 March of the DAP, and to the anti-disappearance decree. We have already said about the prison police, but two more notes need to be highlighted. Let's remember that in this context also came to light that bad story that concerned the statements of Judge Palamara, in which a truth emerged that for a long time has been kept hidden: we attack Matteo Salvini even if he is right. [[Applause.]] On this, too, Minister Bonafede remained fugitive. I, unlike my fellow Senator Emanuele Pellegrini, am not surprised that he is absent today during this debate. He was absent during all the emergency management and during all the serious episodes that occurred in our country. You didn't spend one word on the prison police, and what happened today? Minister Bonafede had promised us that he would guarantee final sentences within four years and today's gift is that Carminati, a very dangerous criminal, was released for the purposes of the term of custody. That's what's happening today. I saw, in these fringes, which Italy the majority forces promised to the Italians. The 5 Star Movimento has promised five-star Italy; then someone else has promised Italy beautiful and strong and has become a movement, Italy Viva. The Democratic Party has promised a stronger and fairer Italy. We say with a great sense of responsibility, with serenity, but also with the conviction of keeping this Italy: it is not Italy that we want. Italy is enough for us without adjectives and without descriptions. To us it is enough that Italy we know, glorious, great, strong, because alone it is so beautiful and does not give up and we will not allow you, with your wretched measures in any sector and also in the field of justice, to do evil. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u88	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u89	Mr President, senators, representatives of the Government, a very short time after the decrees cure Italy and liquidity, the Government intervened to address the emergency Covid on the justice sector, with precise provisions that, while trying to renew in some way the contents, in some parts overlap with the provisions of the decrees cited, now converted into law, and in others introducing new provisions on the reform of the interceptions, of the penitentiary order, of the conduct of judicial activities in the emergency period, in the matter of contact tracing, in order to equip our system of a kind of warning system of the contacts of the subjects with individuals positive results to the virus. The measure we are debating for the conversion to law, although it consists of only eight articles, actually includes provisions that affect the justice sector and that would need a different time for the subjects dealt with and the complex contents to be examined. We intervene on the new discipline of interceptions, referred to in the Bonafede reform, to differ, at this moment causes the epidemiological emergency, the entry into force. But it would have been appropriate - and I hope we can do so as soon as the gradual normality of life and work is resumed - not only to reflect on the need to adapt the structures of the judicial offices, with all that it entails, but also on the objective impossibility of carrying out a complicated reform such as that on interceptions, in order to change everything without actually intervening in the ways and in the times due in a system as complex as ever the judicial one. The decree-law also intervenes on the penitentiary order in order to try to cushion the bitter polemics, political and not, connected to the discussed releases happened in recent days and connected only indirectly to the emergency coronavirus, of authoritative exponents of associations of mafia type subject to the special detention regime referred to in article 41- bis. The procedural rules of the provisions referred to in Articles 30-a and 47-b of the penitentiary order are to be supplemented with a kind of equalisation - at least from the point of view of granting the benefit - of the so-called permits of necessity to premium permits, by a significant unification of the regime of all permits - whether necessary or rewardable - with an intervention by the competent authority which must decide on their granting and having to take account, also for the permits of necessity, of the indications coming from the district attorney and the national prosecutor anti-mafia and anti-terrorism. The decree-law under consideration also deals with judicial activity during the emergency period, introducing significant measures of the treatment on civil and criminal proceedings during this period, also innovative some provisions introduced by the so-called Italian care decree and liquidity decree. Perhaps Article 3 - this very article that intervenes in the area of virus containment measures in the national judicial system - would need more attention in its formulation. Without any criticism, but as a lawyer as I am, I think it is useful, even for a shared political action, that when you have on the operating and working methods of large and well represented professional categories in Parliament, even if in an emergency, it is advisable to listen above all to professionals in the sector. And I say listen in the sense of understanding and transposing legitimate demands. I then briefly mention, for information only, to indicate something of the content of this decree-law, on the specification of Article 3, that among the procedures to be celebrated during the period of suspension of office of the judicial activity includes, with regard to those with precautionary subjects, only those for which, during the period of suspension or in the following six months, the terms referred to in Article 304, paragraph 6, of the Code of Criminal Procedure (the so-called final terms of total phase or final terms, better known as maximums). With regard, on the other hand, to the celebration of the remote hearings and their chambers of council, the decree-law, in order to safeguard the necessary principle of orality of the criminal process, has intervened in a more restrictive sense - in this case perhaps listening to the voices of the operators of the law - in order not to dematerialize the process completely, risking the injury of the constitutional principles, in particular of the right of defence and of the contradictory, and thus introducing an express limit to the celebration remotely of the criminal hearings, previewing that the celebration of the criminal hearings in which tests, parties, technical advisers and experts will have to be examined and of those in which the final discussion of the proceedings will have to proceed. In the absence of such hearings, they may only be dealt with in the Chamber, or postponed to a later date. However, it is to be appreciated that the norm intervenes in order to favor an implementation of the telematic criminal process to be framed, however, in the perspective of a reform of system and that it constitutes, therefore, although rising from the emergency, an innovative and desirable vision of a true computerization of the process. Finally, a new Covid-19 alert system is introduced in the text of the measure, with an allocation of EUR 1.5 million specifically for the prevention of coronavirus infections. This is one of the most important predictions of the act under consideration, through which the Government has finally dictated, precisely at the point of application of tracing, a clear regulatory base aimed at alerting people who have entered into close contact with positive subjects at Covid-19. It is foreseen, in fact, in Article 6, that, in order only to alert people who have come into direct contact with positive subjects and protect their health, through the planned measures of prophylaxis in the context of the public health measures related to the emergency Covid-19, at the Ministry of Health - we remember that it is the holder of the treatment - a single national platform for the management of the alert system of the subjects that, to this end, have installed, on a voluntary basis, a special application on mobile devices is established. Therefore, on the one hand, there is a general prohibition on the processing of personal data collected with the tracking application for purposes other than that of informing people of having come into contact with a patient; on the other hand, however, it is established that such information is allowed, however, for the purposes of public health only, prophylaxis, statistical or scientific research, thus introducing a number of exceptions, albeit reduced, but rather rigorous. Positive evidence of the rule seems to be, however, that law enforcement authorities cannot request the transmission of personal data collected from tracking applications in order to repress crimes of any kind. This should be used to eliminate doubts about the fear of arbitrary and unjustified use of anti-Covid-19 tracking applications for reasons of counter-crime, although this fact is not, objectively, entirely obvious. It is precisely for these reasons that I hope that the Government will accept the invitation, which - I repeat - serves only as an aid to the work of the executive. At other times and outside the Covid-19 emergency, this would have been the case for Parliament, but now I call on the Government to also consider the possibility of a normative ban, explicitly aimed at the criminal process, that is to remove any possibility of doubt as to the procedural unusability of personal data collected for purposes related to the protection of the health of individuals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u90	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u91	Mr President, the measure we are about to vote on contains a number of aspects, some of which have already been explained. I would like to start with the question, which we have already stressed several times, of the importance of the functioning of the justice service, which is a great social value, if possible increased by the emergency Covid-19. I intend to say that the Covid-19 emergency - the one it triggered and its effects, which will still persist and I am thinking of social hardship and economic effects - requires us to be very careful not to leave alone those citizens who most need protection and who ask the justice system, in various ways, for access to the protection of rights. This concerns both the civil and criminal field, whether it is a person of offense, or, of course, a suspect or accused person. The measure puts a certain order and is concerned with ensuring the effects of the measures taken in the hearings and of the judicial measures taken in emergency and in special ways and is rightly concerned with ensuring the transition and exit from the emergency phase. From this point of view, I would like to say at once that, with great conviction, I voted for an amendment, which was accepted and on which we also insisted, in order to anticipate the closure of the emergency, because of the urgency of bringing the courts back to full and complete operation. Now a series of reflections, reflections that will not remain, however, closed and do not end with the end of the emergency Covid-19. Some people have touched on the argument that using technological means more strongly than in the past raises the question of what will remain after the Covid-19. Of course, here we must keep the bar straight, in the sense that, for a number of procedures, it is useful and, at a stage that is not yet exhausted - I think of all the hearings of the civilian - it allows to make more hearings and, therefore, to guarantee more access to rights. As far as criminals are concerned, however, there must rightly be limitations, and this can only concern the provision of the service and, therefore, all that has to do with the filing of the documents; but we are very careful to ensure the effectiveness of the contradictory. This is done in this measure because, regardless of the anticipation of the end of the emergency, the possibility of hearing witnesses has been mentioned. It was no longer the case and, indeed, the measure limits to an even greater extent, because it is not possible to hear parties and experts in the criminal process using the remote. I'm gonna make a note of the wiretap issue. We must agree, beyond the controversy. Obviously for those who speak to you the preferred text was that of the Orlando reform in its entirety. The extension of the use of the trojan also to non crimes of mafia and terrorism was voted in force the previous majority and, therefore, also by the League. What is important to stress is the urgency for the guarantee to come into force on the non-publishing of anything that is not of criminal importance. I think this title is enough to understand us. Let's agree. If this is an urgent legal culture, we will have to do everything we can to make it happen as soon as possible. The further postponement cannot but be linked to the Covid emergency; it is the concreteness with which the accounts are made. I only make a joke for those who listen to us. Of course, we are all very responsive to crimes involving paedophilia, child pornography, and so on. In this case, however, let us agree on what is a guarantee or guarantee system, otherwise we use this term empty. It is already planned to intercept with all the modalities for the crimes of child pornography; it is not foreseen for the residual crime of detention for which there is, however, the search that allows to ascertain the crime, which is punished with a maximum penalty of three years alternative to the fine. There is a system problem that must be fully protected. The opposite of guaranteeing is also breaking down the system for individual crime hypotheses without worrying about system coherence. I will now say a few words about the intervention for so-called release. I do three flashes to make it clear to those who listen to us outside this House. The Government has established that for common crimes, expressly excluding social alert crimes, it was possible to apply something that had already been applied before, namely to those who had a residual sentence of eighteen months, due to the emergency Covid, could be granted the alternative penalty of house detention, after an investigation albeit summary. The legal order already provided for and already provides for certain social alert offences, for which normally these measures are excluded, in exceptional cases, which the judiciary was already carrying out with a view to balancing, the so-called concession by way of derogation. A significant amount of case law concerns the balance between social danger, protection of safety and health protection, to which the prisoner is also entitled. It is a rule that already existed, by virtue of which releases have been carried out in respect of which we have all said that a breach has been created. The measure, therefore, intervenes on something that was not established by the decrees referring to the emergency by Covid-19 and is concerned - I believe correctly and in a very balanced way - to intervene to remedy the breach that had been created, while protecting, at the same time, the autonomy of the judiciary surveillance, which remains the only one to be able to review a number of decisions in relation to the change of situation. It is expected that the opinion of the anti-mafia, district or national prosecutor will be mandatory, precisely in order to be in line with the situation. There is therefore an obligation to re-evaluate those cases of so-called release - we are talking not about freedom, but about home detention and it should always be remembered - which occurred in connection with the emergency from Covid-19. And let us remember that this is something new, and not only because of the size, but also - in relation to what we are discussing today - for the judgment that we must express. After all, we consider - and here there are many lawyers - the so-called danger in practice (I would remain on the danger in practice and I would not speak of danger in abstract). There is therefore a series of interventions in relation to a situation of danger, with reference to the protection of health that every citizen has the right to have and also - I would like to remind you - to the protection of the health of the prison police. [[Call the president back.]] I am beginning to finish and I see that Mr Caliendo, who has been very committed, will be speaking after me. With specific reference to this type of intervention, a procedural rule is also laid down, which provides for immediate action to revoke the measure, if the conditions no longer exist, and the establishment of the adversarial before the supervisory tribunal in the following 30 days. In this regard, there is a titanic confrontation between those who believe that there is no protection of the contradictory and those who believe that, if the measure loses its effectiveness, then the security of the citizens is threatened. It was possible to choose to protect the contradictory in the ex ante phase or in the next phase and the next stage was chosen, keeping a precautionary intervention firm. There is no breach with regard to the safety of citizens, because the fact remains that every thirty days the surveillance magistrate evaluates and can repeat the revocation order. I'm saying this to make it clear. [[Call the president back.]] I conclude, Mr President, by not wanting to abuse your courtesy. What will remain? There will certainly remain the fact that perhaps it would have been appropriate to reflect on what prison must be, especially for the common prisoners, and on the modalities of alternative atonement of the sentence, which does not mean not atonement, but alternative mode. Probably, if you had had more courage, you wouldn't have been in this situation. It was also appropriate to reflect on structural modernisation, which is not - as technology never is - neutral: an increase in the level of technology is not in itself a solution. We have - and fortunately we have them - the principles of the Constitution, which allow us to have a guide and not to lose direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u93	Mr President, first of all, I would like to take into account what Senator Pellegrini said, who was surprised that he had not been involved in debates on justice in recent times. I believe that we can all see a difference between the 16th legislature and the last two legislatures. The difference lies in the fact that in our country the culture of suspicion has been introduced, while the culture of the rules of judgment has failed, so one always favours the identification of the responsible, of those who have the blame. Thus, even in the last case, the idea not expressed, but suggested, that a circular of the Ministry, with manslaughter or malicious responsibility - it was not understood - had been the cause of the release of the accused. It is a falsehood, the most absolute of this world, for one reason only: first of all today we have not only learned - as has already been mentioned - of the awareness of the Minister and of all in relation to that so-called known, rather than circular; but the essential thing is that - look at it - there are dozens and dozens of the previous measures. This is so true that I asked myself: why February 22nd? In fact, the health emergency was scheduled on 31 January; then it should have been 31 January. Vice Minister, while I know the judiciary, here knowledge of the real and experience make me say that there are certainly measures before 22 February that are equal to others and have taken into account a fundamental fact of our Constitution: the right to health. It would suffice for you and the rapporteurs to read the reports of the Presidents of the supervisory tribunals, which were read today in the anti-Mafia Commission, which called for certain measures. So why make a measure that has no legal basis from the point of view of the right of defence? I want to remind you - and Senator Rossomando will remind you that she spoke before me - that in the 16th legislature we rewritten 41- bis together and voted unanimously, because we worked together with only one objective: to ensure the guarantees, that is to be consistent on the fact that a severe penalty corresponds to the same right and guarantee of the accused or the sentenced person. You must never deflect on this line. And this line is such that we had tabled a clear and precise amendment: you cannot fail to foresee - and by chance several orders for referral to the Constitutional Court begin to arrive - the right of defence. It was three days that we had asked: to give the defender all those days that are off so that he could make his observations. What was the fear? Could he possibly convince the court of an effective right of health? I don't think we're lawmakers if we care about that. A serious legislator cares about the rights first and then the necessity that "title" must be in prison, and must be there after being sentenced; but, if hypothetically, a right to health prevents him from being in prison, he must not be there: this is the rule and on the rules we cannot fail, as well as those that are constitutional principles. For this reason I was annoyed by that further rule, concerning the supervisory tribunal and all the magistrates of surveillance, in which, even contradictoryly, three things are inserted together: a first paragraph, very correct, according to which it was expected that the magistrate of surveillance, after having collected all the elements, would transmit them to the supervisory tribunal; a second paragraph, equally correct, which stipulated that the supervisory court should assess the recurrence or not of the premises; but they were assigned thirty days of time, after having built that hypothesis fifteen days or a month, and that means, neither more nor less, than then at the end, where it was only a decree of revocation, as far as the decree of acceptance is concerned, there is not. One of the questions of constitutionality raised highlights this very fact. When there is acceptance, there is not; when there is a decree of revocation, then it is possible to say that, if the supervisory tribunal is not pronounced, it lapses. We are insane, because this whole system seems to be that of a state that has no confidence in itself, neither in the jurisdiction nor in the regular and legal instruments to achieve a result. To think of putting together an architrave of elements such as to be able to say that Tizio, Caio and Sempronio, who have come out because of health, must return to prison, whatever the reason: this is the logic of a child of seventh grade, who gets it by reading all the norms together. Is that correct? We always have to worry about guarantees. I have lived in the Higher Council during the years of terrorism and President La Russa will remember that we have fought the fight against terrorism without special laws, introducing only an aggression in our system; yet we have won, because it is not possible to think of altering the constitutional balances in order to achieve a certain purpose. The aim is alien to justice: no judge will ever raise the question of what the result is or what his judgment must be about, which is based on balance, respect for rights and what has been said today, which has called for Mr Rossomando. The affirmation of a right is the affirmation of something that prevents it from being premeditated or denied by others: this is the great challenge of a democratic state. In a state that is not democratic, of course, those systems are reached and in those systems we put in again, but they are not. We must wage a battle that is a loser for a certain period, but then it will become a winner and must always aim at equality and non-predictment, non-suspect and non-affirmation of the right of suspect. I'm going to the conclusion. Now, we are carrying out the general discussion knowing that confidence is already expected, and everything is a bit altered, but I just want to say one thing: let's try to rebuild the state of justice, eliminating the processes remotely and guaranteeing the council chamber in a single context, because it is the only instrument of effective verification. The telematic process is the one that guarantees acceleration; but, when it comes to evaluating a guy or hearing a witness - and President La Russa can tell us how much the counter-examination in the courtroom has determined many times the attainment of the truth - it is for this reason that... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] But all ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) systems - the privilege, because they can speed up the times of justice - are not shared by citizens. Try to check with citizens whether they share all those ADR systems or prefer an extra year or six months, and have a judge give them a sentence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u94	It occurred to me - as Senator Caliendo was a magistrate, before being a parliamentary, and as a lawyer - that it was usually the magistrates, when I made the arguments, who made a gesture with my hand to invite me to conclude: I laughed at the thought that now it was up to me to do it to a magistrate. [[Laughter]] Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u95	Mr President, we are perhaps at the last act of the tragedy of justice at the time of the coronavirus. Perhaps it could be a comedy if you could laugh at what happened to justice and the state in recent months. A final act of a sequence that starts with the well-known decrees that, covered by the elegance of the ways of President Conte, have almost violated in a single blow all the presuppositions for the issuing of decree-laws, the hierarchy of sources, constitutional rights and the function of Parliament itself. We have seen a pandemic emergency transformed into a sort of exception state, an institution that is unknown to our Constitutional Charter. And if the exception at the moment of fear justified the ways and actions, now that exception raises doubts about the very existence of necessity and doubts and doubts whether this exception can remain and survive fear by becoming law and becoming a procedure and a new rule. It must be recognised, as far as we are concerned with justice, that the rules contained in the various decrees adopted during this period have really succeeded in eliminating the criminal procedural rite, the unity of time, place and action in criminal proceedings, the principles of orality, immediacy and concentration, the canons of just trial, the right of defence and the principle of the inviolability of personal freedom. If the distance process has found its place in this confused panorama of norms and concepts, it is necessary to think whether this has now found a stable home in our order. The concern is that in Italy everything that is temporary becomes definitive, and let's see if this emergency legislation will be limited to the emergency or if it will produce twists and cracks in our system and in our order. The problem is that no one has really been scandalized by this way of proceeding, the referrals of hearings, the suspension of the prescription and the judicial function. In the end, the proto-collar problems of which each judicial office has been heavily charged remained a burden on lawyers, magistrates and stationery staff. Ladies and gentlemen, when the justice system is paralysed, justice is denied to citizens. [[Applause.]] The problem is that the judicial system has paralyzed and where it has moved it has caused damage. There have been terrible riots in prison that, according to some careful observers, are not even found in the history of Colombia. These episodes were not answered with firmness and determination, but with an empty-carriage measure that constitutes, among other things, a dangerous precedent. If he was still, maybe it would have been better. In this heavy tragedy of justice there is also another passage. The problem with Italians is that they forget. There has been a contradiction between the Minister of Justice and a well-known and esteemed magistrate. The issue of the fight is nothing less than the appointment as head of the Department of the penitentiary administration (so not as president of the bocciophile), and this is not in a courtroom or an institutional seat, but in a television broadcast. There has been a mess at the CSM and interceptions where bad pacts have emerged, and we have arrived at an institutional tightening where those who created and wanted a norm or tried to deal with this period did not know how to predict the consequences of the applied rules. The person responsible has not been able to deal with these consequences. So there has been a system of release, I hope not wanted, escaped from a procedural logic that has jammed and that has been confused, but that has never been oriented. The result was that inmates for very serious crimes, including members of mafia organizations, enjoyed unexpected prison benefits. So years of investigation, courtrooms, people's work, and law enforcement went up in smoke in a few moments. Then we are today with Decree-Law No. 28 of 2020 (the Decree-Law No. 29 of 2020 has returned with the appearance of an amendment) which in the end does nothing but try to intervene on this legislation, on the errors committed to adjust, to correct, to mitigate the effects, to compensate for shortcomings, legislative voids and even confusions; it also tries to intervene to try to eliminate the effects of the judicial tightening on the release, therefore in reality confirming the serious error committed. However, what we have noticed and which we have collected in all the exceptions of constitutional illegitimacy that have been raised is that a solution has certainly been obtained, that is to say, one which is of interest to the judges of the Court. A constitutional reference has not been made because perhaps the rule is already being examined by the Constitutional Court, so in some respects it may not be necessary to give a preliminary ruling because the law itself may already be affected. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u96	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and government representatives, the measure before the House today includes, among other urgent measures, provisions for the introduction of the Covid-19 alert system. On this system, now known as the Immuni app, since June 1st available for installation on our smartphones, many things have been said, both by qualified experts, to which I would like to reply today, and by experts of the last moment of unclear competence. These aspects deserve to be deepened and explained, in order to shed light and clarity on the issue before all Italian citizens. I would like to make my contribution to this debate because I have been involved in a life of digitalisation and I have been responsible for security for an Italian university. Currently, as a senator, I have followed closely the entire path of the Immuni app, studying its implications, and for this reason I believe that we must applaud and address a thank you to the minister for technological innovation and digitalization Pisano, to Paolo De Rosa, technical director, and to all the technical staff at the Ministry, who has conducted and carried out this project with maximum professionalism. The Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitisation has been criticized on the charge that the Immuni app should be a matter for the Minister of Health, and that would not be the case. Instead it is: it is highlighted by Play Store and Apple Store that, before proceeding with the installation, clearly indicate to us that Immuni is released by the Ministry of Health. In addition, Article 6 of the measure under consideration today states that the Minister of Health is the only person responsible for the processing of data collected by Immuni and is responsible for the further requirements necessary for the management of the alert system and for the adoption of related public health and care measures, in coordination with the accredited public and private structures operating within the National Health Service. Applause therefore to the effective collaboration between health and technological innovation and digitization, which has allowed to reach the realization of a valid technical solution to support the health and epidemiological procedures. It has also been argued that it is unclear what happens after receiving the message that warns that you have had contact with an infected subject. It is false: in several circulars, including the one of 29 May 2020, the Ministry of Health has clearly specified the path to be followed. The person (technically the contact) will be invited to contact his family doctor, who will immediately be able to take charge of the person from a health point of view and activate all the necessary system to diagnose whether or not there has actually been infection. This is precisely the most effective way of proceeding by the National Health Service to analyze the suspected cases of Covid-19. It is clear, therefore, that the Immuni app is part of a system of alerting and health security in favour of the citizen. The concept of close contact was also discussed, and there is also little to discuss. Its definition is also found in the last circular I mentioned, and it is independent of whether or not an app exists. The health prevention system searches for contacts in any way, both with normal contact tracing systems and, as in this case, with digital ones, because the search for contacts is the only way to stop, or at least brake, the epidemic. For example, smallpox has been reduced with the vaccine, but has been eradicated with contact tracing. The app, recording the contact for at least fifteen minutes less than two metres away, detects high risk exposure. Not all high-risk exposures are recorded by the app, but surely those detected are high-risk exposures that, if they refer to random encounters, cannot be intercepted by manual contact tracing. Immuni allows to alert occasional contacts, difficult to reconstruct later with manual contact tracing. So, digital contact tracing actually improves and completes the manual contact tracing. A major controversy has been raised about the privacy and processing of data. It has been said that confidentiality would not be respected and that there would be repeated backwardness and confusing news on issues such as data processing and centralized or diffused servers. Here too it is good to clarify. The Data Protection Supervisor has been heard and involved in all stages of the implementation of the app, and will continue to be heard in the phases of use. The Guarantor shall ensure that, as expressed in this provision, the level of security is adapted to the high risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subject, and that users receive clear and transparent information before the activation of the application in order to achieve full awareness, in particular on the purposes and operations of processing, on the pseudonymisation techniques used and on the storage times of data. The principle of minimization is respected, so the personal data collected by the application are only those necessary. There is an end date of treatment, 31 December 2020. For those who want to make sure in person and know the data that the app actually transfers to the central server has also been made available to all the source code of the app. In addition, the privacy policy is very detailed. For the first time, I think it can be said that the public administration has made available to citizens a service that, from the point of view of privacy, has been certified by the Guarantor from the beginning to the end of the implementation process. Yet, lawyers and professors continue to judge Immuni by talking about things that are unknown to them. It is rare, in fact, to find a lawyer who also knows what a JSON payload is. Who, on the other hand, has to do with technology everyday weaves praises for the computer solutions chosen precisely to protect the privacy of users. There have never been so much controversy about privacy as on this occasion; the only time when there really was no reason, contrary to what happens with many other services where a serious criticism of platforms would be necessary, such as for distance teaching, where the abuse of the use of personal data by commercial platforms is very high. But let's go back to the Immuni app. Therefore, if there was confusion, it was caused by interference due to misinformation, which is part of the political struggle, but from the technical and implementation point of view there was no confusion. The project has been developed at European level and has been refined. The team work has been constructive, all needs have been heard and a way has been found to satisfy them all. Thus we have a solution that is interoperable worldwide, despite the different health systems and the different implementations of the app from country to country. As for Italy and the Immuni app, if we were the first to implement it we can finally say that we must not consider ourselves inferior to anyone. Reviews of the app by experts are excellent, such as those of Roberto Pezzali, journalist and web application developer, Giorgio Bonfiglio, engineer and cloud architect and even Matteo Flora, usually very critical, awarded Immuni the best application of the last five years: it is beautiful because even an app can be a work of art, done well beyond any kind of expectation and is code... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u98	I'll give you one more minute. If you still have so much to read, you can also hand over the text, if you think, otherwise continue, I'll give you an additional minute, but no later.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u99	MANTOVANI (M5S). And it's open source code, as any public administration computer program should be. Finally, one last provocation was supported: some believe that a serious state would have put privacy in the background for six months. President, ladies and gentlemen, let us make this clear: privacy is one of the key concepts in the West and especially in Europe and show that we can be respectful of privacy even at a time like this is definitely a plus that makes us understand that we are really in a democratic country. To conclude, this app must certainly not be considered a saving solution, rather an accessory of civilization that, together with the mask, will allow us a more respectful civil coexistence towards one another. I invite all my Senator colleagues and fellow Senators to install and test the Immuni app. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u100	Thank you. We'll treasure your invitation. The general debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, before moving on to the replies, the Presidency states that amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1.0.4, 2.1, 2.0.3, 2.0.4, 2.0.5, 2.0.6, 2.0.7, 2.0.8, 2.0.9, 3.56, 3.0.1, 5.6, 7.0.1, 7.0.2 (text 2) and 7.04, as they are outside the scope of the decree-law, cannot be accepted under Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Presidency also states that the agendas of G2.10 and G5.1, which reproduce the content of amendments outside the scope of the decree-law, which have already been declared inadmissible in the Commission, and the agenda for G5201, cannot be proposed under the same rule. Finally, with regard to the sub-amendments tabled, the Presidency states that proposals 3.5 (text 3/200 and 5.1 (text 3/200) are inadmissible, since they do not affect the text of the amendment to which they refer, or add extra provisions on the subject. I have had signs from all the rapporteurs, both in the majority and in the opposition, of giving up the reply, while for a few minutes he asked me to speak to the competent Minister, whom I gladly give the floor to.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to the debate on the text of the measure and your assessment of the steps taken along the path I have been talking about over the past few weeks in the competent Senate and Chamber of Deputies Commissions. The goal was and is to contribute together to contain the diffusion of the Covid-19, using more than before innovation tools. On several occasions I have said that the adoption of the system of notification of exposure to the virus and the potential risks associated with it would depend on the adoption of a primary standard, a law, in my opinion, indispensable to delimit the field and the modalities of action, as well as to provide citizens and users with the necessary framework of guarantees also from the point of view of privacy. There are answers to your concerns within Article 6 concerning data exchange applications, which are alphanumeric codes through which it is not possible to trace the identity of citizens. The data is stored in a public cloud and in Italy; there has been no invitation to tender, the code has been licensed for free and perpetual use. That for the Immuni app it has been wanted modalities and that downloading it on your mobile phone is a voluntary choice indicates the will of me and the Government to place the technology at the service of health protection, without sacrificing the protection of individual freedom and in a framework of safety. I would like to point out that on the rule under discussion today, the Data Protection Supervisor has expressed a favourable opinion and has considered the system of reporting of exposures consistent with the principles and provisions on the protection of personal data. Immuni is a particularly useful tool in this phase of progressive resumption of many activities: it will allow to notify users if they have been exposed to risks of possible contagion of the form of coronavirus because of which many of our habits have changed. After the period of limited movements this instrument is and will be one of the means that will allow each of us to extend in conditions of greater security its range of action, albeit with the necessary cautions that we know: wash our hands, respect the safety distances and hold the mask. It will help us because the more we are and the more we will be endowed with it, the more Immuni will break the chain of contagion. Anyone who knows that he has entered the virus will be able to contact the Health Service for tests and - if necessary - use treatments whose effectiveness can benefit from the promptness. As I have said in the past, it will not be the solution to all the problems; it is part of a more complex strategy, for which we must say thanks first of all to the doctors and to the whole of the health staff who, with sacrifice and also the cost of human lives, have worked admirablely in these months at the service of the community. [[Applause.]] I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the system of notifications comes from work and from the loyal collaboration between central and non-central bodies of the State. I would like to thank each of them and, in particular, I would like to thank Parliament, which, through the Commissions, has given assessments, expressed opinions and offered ideas for reflection which have enriched the work carried out and enabled the rapid progress to be made. It is a collaboration that has seen parts of society and innovation technicians work with commitment and that has kept us and keeps us in contact with Europe today for the interoperability of applications. We are one of the first large European states to make such a tool available to mobile users at national level. I stress this because it is one of the many - many - signs of the determined will of the Italians to react to the difficulties of the situation that characterized this part of 2020. For the project the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Department of Digital Transformation that I have the honour to direct, the Regions, the Extraordinary Commissioner for Emergency Covid-19, public companies PagoPA SpA and Sogei... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u102	Please, Minister Pisano.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u103	Mr PISANO, Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalisation. These include verification of the source code, the fact that the source code is public and open source, and that everyone can control the app's further implementations, data management, application dissemination in stores, backend management, and all the information on the application that you find publicly on the website of the digital transformation department. On June 1st, the app arrived in Google and Apple stores. On June 2 it was the first downloaded application in Italy. According to the latest updates the download has been run so far by 2 million and 780 users. Since yesterday, June 15, after a period of experimentation, all Regions participate in the Immuni application. Currently, the Government is committed to promoting the spread of the app thanks to a website that explains the operation, a call center and a communication campaign. Covid-19 is an enemy of all of us. It is not an enemy solely or to a different extent of the only majority which in this Parliament supports the Government or more than the opposition alone. He's an enemy of all people. As far as I am concerned, I felt, in my capacity as a liaison, in the proper forms and in the respect of roles and autonomy, between technical skills, which characterize our times, and public administration, which can benefit from it. I have acted with the aim of bringing about an advantage for the national community and for the European community, in which we are honored to participate. Helping to contain the spread of the Covid-19, so that the resumption of activities takes place in our country in safety and in the best way, is a responsibility that unites us beyond any diversity of political opinion and position within this House. Thank you, for what you have done and will do in this respect. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u104	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u105	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question, which fully transposes the amending proposals approved by the Commission, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u106	In the light of the Minister's statement, the Presidency shall assess the amendment admissible under Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament again, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1786, conversion to law of Decree-Law No 28 of 30 April 2020. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u108	I would ask the senators not to invade the House and to have a minimum of respect. The work has not yet been completed. Trust has just been on purpose, which does not seem to me to be entirely marginal and not even so cheerful. The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, it sends the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u109	Mr President, I have to agree with you. The fact that the question of trust has been raised at this time, in this House, with fifteen senators, on such a delicate and important issue that impacts on the justice system of our country tells us with extreme plastic clarity what the consequences of the systematic depletion of the roles of this Parliament are. [[Applause.]] I'm sorry, but I can't help complaining about what I just said. We have a serious problem, as I said, which will have a traumatic impact on the criminal trial. Criminals are always reminding us of that. We see a progressive emptying of the criminal trial that is transformed into a television pantomime in which lawyers no longer have any contact with witnesses, with the parties and not even with the judge, since even the discussion can take place electronically. On this I can only express all the concern of the political force I represent, but also - allow me - I can only bring back to this very House the concern of the category of criminal lawyers that has been represented to us over and over again. To the friends and colleagues who recommend us to continue on the road to the telematic process because it is much better, much simpler and faster, I just ask how it will be possible to do the counter-examination of a hostile witness, how will it be possible to verify that a witness is not taken, suborganized or threatened if all is done electronically. I wonder if we still believe in the criminal process because, at this point, if we continue on the road to the telematic process, we can turn the examination of the texts into a simple questionnaire with the crosswords and the questions pre-printed, with true or false, and communicate directly with the form, so maybe we do before. My colleagues have already spoken about the Immuni app and, therefore, I am not long, given the late hour. However, as far as sanctions are concerned, we are seriously concerned. We do not know who will be directly responsible for the data collected by the Immuni app and, above all, we do not believe that the sanctioning system for the dispersal of data or for their use against the law is adequate and functional. We had tabled amendments to this effect, but they were all deleted. On the other hand, I must acknowledge the passage in the debate of two measures which, in our view, will significantly improve the situation, especially with regard to minors. President, let me explain. In this time of coronavirus the children were forced to follow the school through distance teaching. Children also of very young age had access to computers, tablets, mobile phones for contact with the school. We all know, however, that, through the devices, you have direct, indiscriminate access to the Internet, where there are very dangerous content for our children. I'm referring to content of a violent or pornographic nature. Thanks to amendment 7.0.3 of the League, approved during the examination of the law of conversion of this decree, millions of minors who have access to cyberspace today will be able to do so in a more secure way because all the contractualities that concern the administration of providing services and, therefore, Internet access will have to have as a mandatory and free clause the fact that they are pre-installed on all the devices of the parental control systems disable only by an adult. I think this is a great point of arrival. We thank all the political forces for the unanimity they have achieved on this very important issue and we hope it will help to stem the sad phenomenon of the so-called people and, in particular, women. I'll stop right here. There will be explanations of vote tomorrow. However, I remain on what I said at the beginning: this was a measure on which we could really spare ourselves from putting trust. [[Applause.]] We could have debated in this House and voted on the amendments, which were not many and were not obstructive. The measure could indeed be crowned with a debate, without humiliating Parliament with a conclusion with fifteen senators in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u110	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-229.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 17 June, at 8.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.41 p.m.
