ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 18 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u2	I communicate that on 23 November 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 154 of 23 November 2020 on urgent financial measures related to the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, as set out by the Conference of Leaders, I suspend the sitting which will resume at 3 p.m. with the President's announcements on the timetable. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u4	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders established the schedule of proceedings until 2 December. The agenda for today's sitting is for the draft law on statistics on gender violence to be discussed from the drawing-up site. At 9.30 a.m. tomorrow's sitting, the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers for Defence, Education and European Affairs. At 1 p.m. will be discussed the Report to Parliament on the authorisation of the return plan towards the medium-term objective, for which the absolute majority of the members of the Senate is expected to be approved. The week from 30 November to 4 December will be mainly reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the decree-laws ristori. The Assembly will meet on Wednesday 2 December, at 9.30 a.m., for communications from the Minister of Health on further measures to address the emergency from Covid-19. The calendar may be supplemented by an examination of the Senate's accounts and internal financial statements. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to report to the Chambers in view of the Eurogroup meeting on 30 November on the reform of the European Stability Mechanism and the introduction of the support mechanism for the Single Resolution Fund, it has been established that this information takes place in the relevant Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 2 December: [[Wednesday 25 November h. 9.30 a.m. - Draft law n. 1762 - Statistics on gender violence (from the drafting office) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 26, 9.30 a.m.) - Doc. LVII- bis, n. 3 - Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243 (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) * (Thursday 26, 13:00) Thursday 26 " h. 9,30]] * Motions for resolutions to the Report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 should be tabled before the end of the debate. [[Wednesday 2 December h 9.30 a.m. - Communications by the Minister of Health on further measures to address the emergency from Covid-19]] The week from 30 November to 4 December will be mainly reserved for the work of the Commissions. The calendar can be integrated with the examination of the Report and the Internal Budget of the Senate. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII-a, No 3 (Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012) (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 15' Government 15' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 31' L-SP-PSd'Az 24' FIBP-UDC 22' PD 18' Mixed 16' FdI 14' IV-PSI 14' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 11' Dissentents 5']] Communications from the Minister of Health on further measures to address the emergency from Covid-19 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 37' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' PD 21' Mixed 20' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u8	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in the light of your communications on the two meetings of the Conference of Leaders, which were held yesterday and in the late morning of today, the Lega Group will not vote in favour of the timetable as proposed, and will make alternative proposals. Yesterday, while appreciating the desire of Minister Hope to come to the Assembly on 2 December for communications, we point out that it is precisely the day before the expiry of the last DCCM, which is in force precisely until 3 December. It seems that the majority wants to come to the House with the DPCM already ready, without showing any availability and without giving us the opportunity to make proposals [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] which will allow Parliament to really give an address. Therefore, we propose to anticipate from December 2nd to December 1st the communications of Minister Hope. The other proposal to amend the timetable, which we are going to make - then assess the Presidency whether to put them together or to take two separate votes - concerns the availability given by Minister Gualtieri, with a letter to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, to come to this House and report on the reform of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), given that a meeting will be held at the Eurogroup on 30 November, where any proposals will be considered. In today's Conference of Leaders, I abandoned the session for something that has bothered me a little. I say this to everyone: we were faced with a Minister who offered his willingness to come and talk to the Chambers about a topic, that we all know to be delicate and that shows divisions, even within the center-right (we know that on the ESM we have a slightly different position compared to Forza Italia: I am not hiding anything, there are different positions between the various parties on this topic). In view, therefore, of the possibility of the Minister coming to the Chamber, inter alia, for information on which we must not even vote, we do not really understand why you have said that a transition to the European Union's Finance and Policy Commissions is sufficient, as if to give little prominence, almost to diminish such a sensitive and important issue. In addition, it is in a certain sense an institutional scorn: it has honestly never been seen that a minister gives his willingness to come and report to the Chambers and we tell him to go to the Commission. In addition, it made us a little angry that, in the debate on this subject, someone said that we cannot proceed tomorrow because we have to do the sanitisation of the House and that the letter that was sent actually concealed the real will to go to the Commission. I have heard so many of them of all colors that - lords of the majority - if you are shattered on the theme of the ESM, say it openly, have the courage to just say it. [[Applause]] Don't hide behind the Commission or anything else. Tomorrow - and this is my invitation - there is every opportunity to discuss this issue. We were also ready to give up tomorrow's question time: Gualtieri could come at 9 a.m. to make his exhibition; ten minutes are granted to each Group to intervene, and at 10.30 a.m. we would finish; Gualtieri could go to the House and present the deviation and then come back here and introduce him to the Senate. The time is also right for the House's sanitization: we start at 9 a.m., after three hours we arrive at 11 a.m. and then we can sanitize it quietly; one hour off and at 1 p.m. we resume work. So everything can be done without any problem. The question, however, is why the majority, in the face of such an important and sensitive subject, after having made the commitment to come and discuss it in Parliament, backs out, considering that the transition to the Commission is sufficient. Gentlemen, let us say yes to the Commission, but also to the House! Parliament is Commissions and House. [[Applause]] It is said that the House is sovereign: good! It is an information: in the face of the availability of a minister how can you say no? It's really crazy how you behave. Therefore, by proposing that Mr Gualtieri come to the Senate tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. to discuss this issue, I really hope that you will have the intention of confronting us in Parliament without any questions of prejudice, because many parties have different visions, both of the majority and of the opposition. It is true that on 9 December Count will arrive and we will discuss it also that day; but you know how these things work: you arrive at 9 December and everything is already prepared, arranged and, therefore, you proceed to communications and - you say - to the vote. We've learned how the system works. It is better to start talking about it now, but in transparency. Perhaps there is the fear that it will give too much weight to this reform or reform, to the softened pill that you want to give to the Movimento 5 Stars and then force it to join the MES? Gentlemen, there is a great opportunity and it is to discuss it in this House. So our proposals are as follows: Minister Hope comes to the Chamber on 1 December at 4.30 p.m. and Minister Gualtieri tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u11	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, our proposal concerns the debate on the report on the deviation from the budget balance. On this type of documents Chamber and Senate have always gone at the same time. We know that this is not an obligation, but it is certainly very opportune, so much so that - just to talk about this recent period - in the three cases that have occurred, they have always gone at the same time. Tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. we have immediate questions, for which we know there are precise deadlines and, therefore, at 10.45 a.m. they will certainly be over. We see no reason to wait until 1 p.m. - and also for logistical reasons, because we know how difficult it is to move to Italy during this period - to start the debate, which is already taking place in the other branch of Parliament. Therefore, our proposal is as follows. If we want to find a precise timetable, we can start at 11 a.m., although - in fact - we can very well predict that the debate will be scheduled as the second item on the agenda, to be taken immediately after the immediate questions. This is our proposal to do what has always been done. It is clear that the importance of the vote is such that it suggests - as has always been the case - that the deliberations of the two branches of Parliament are contemporary. Secondly, we want Mr Gualtieri to come not only to the Commission but also to the House. The topic is extremely important, it certainly involves all sectors of the country and cannot be confined to the prestigious and highly respected area of the Commissions. There must be a passage in this House, which is extremely important because it is an important sum for our future and the structures of our country. We believe it is important that this debate should take place in this House and next Monday could be a suitable day, before discussions take place at international and European level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u14	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, as regards the inclusion of Mr Hope's communication work in the timetable and the debate on budgetary deviation in conjunction with the House of Deputies, we are in line with what colleagues from Forza Italia and Lega have said. On the other hand, I would like to go into more detail with regard to Mr Gualtieri's speech. As has already been said, the Minister's willingness to intervene in Parliament has arrived to inform us about the meeting of the Eurogroup next Monday on the reform of the ESM and the introduction of the support mechanism for the Single Resolution Fund. If I may say so, this morning in the Commission we noticed a certain kind of embarrassment from the majority, because the feeling that emerged at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders this afternoon is that, most likely, the letter arrived by Minister Gualtieri was a little' lightning to the sky for the majority, who did not know well how to manage. That is not the case. We understand that this letter arrived late last night, after the end of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. Even in this case the majority have given the message of not knowing well, sometimes, what the right hand does with respect to the left. Also in this last conference several interventions have tried to shift the conduct of the information from the Assembly of the Senate to the Commissions. These were more than legitimate speeches by members of the majority, but in fact they hid the embarrassment of wanting to bring the debate to the House. As the group leader Romeo has already said, we are not hiding. The ESM is certainly a subject on which there are different positions within both the majority and the opposition. However, this does not mean that this is the ideal forum to discuss this issue. In fact, there were also those who, at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders - you, Mr President, will certainly have heard - said that this debate in this House could give rise to a media circus. This is not a media circus: it is the place in charge of political discussions of topics concerning the nation and the addresses that this government will have to have within the European Commission and the Eurogroup. I'll be very brief. Our proposal is that the Minister should come to the House, also on the basis of his willingness. We can definitely make sure he comes tomorrow. As far as we are concerned, since we have always shown our will to work in the interests of the nation, if there is no willingness of the Minister for tomorrow morning, we propose that he come Friday morning, so as not to delay the Minister's information further until next week. Most of the senators will also be present here in Rome tomorrow, because we are debating the budgetary deviation and, therefore, it is possible to remain in work even on Friday morning, if it is not possible to do so on Thursday morning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u17	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I believe that this debate on the timetable is important, because it is hiding an unsaid which I would like to say to the end. If one listened only to Senator Romeo's words, he would wonder why the majority would not allow a sitting of this House to be held to discuss such an important issue. However, I would like to say to the House and also to Senator Romeo that the debate is not about the use or not of the ESM, but about the reform of the ESM, which is another story compared to the issue on which majority and opposition divided and divided within them. The problem is another one, Mr President. Here there is a political force - I say it above all to Forza Italia and to Brothers of Italy - that is systematically working to interrupt all forms of dialogue between majority and opposition and to prevent to discuss any measure that concerns the country and the health and economic emergency in which it has been thrown. This political force is the League. I say this because it is from yesterday's Conference of Leaders that the League and Massimiliano Romeo, in particular, seek the pretext to interrupt any discussion that sees us working together. Romeo abandoned the Conference of the Leaders when the Senators Group Leaders of the majority were still intervening. He did not give the opportunity to make a proposal, choosing to abandon the Conference of the Leaders and to influence the choice that the other Opposition Groups would make, so much so that the debate on the Minister's intervention in the Chamber or in the Commission was open, Mr President; you were there to chair the Conference of Leaders and you know that. Now it is not fair to say in this House that we would have wanted to have the session of the Assembly with the information, while the majority has imposed the intervention of the Minister in the Commission, because those who participated until the end in the Conference of the Leaders - I say it to Forza Italia and to Brothers of Italy - know very well that the political forces of majority have given willingness for the session of the Assembly, for the development of the information with Gualtieri. The problem is that Romeo doesn't want to hear about dialogue and finding ways to move forward together, in merit and method. When he hears about dialogue, he gets allergy: this is the theme. He prevents us from dialogue and prevents parliamentary forces from taking a united path at a time when the unity of political forces should be a priority. [[Comments]] I ask Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy, who are witnesses of the fact that Senator Romeo has abandoned the Conference of the Leaders, not to go along with it. It was he who stood up and left when the majority gave their willingness to have a session with the information. If you do not sit down with the information, it is because Senator Romeo has abandoned the Conference of the Leaders and has not even listened to the proposals that came from the majority! Therefore, Mr President, let us restore the truth. We're interested in dialogue. It would be interesting, since yesterday, to vote together at least on the calendar. We cannot even vote on the timetable together in this House, because Senator Romeo and the League prevent us from doing so. That's ridiculous! On the timetable we should find unity of intent; on the deviation we should find unity of intent; on the measures we should strive to find unity of intent. The League prevents it. The invitation and the appeal that I address to Forza Italia and to Brothers of Italy, who - I repeat - have been witnesses of the impediment put on the field by Senator Romeo, is to say more than what the League, instrumentally, puts on the field. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u18	Senator Pharaoh, you have spoken on the calendar, but I have not heard any proposed changes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u19	Mr President, I said that if we now come to the choice of Commissions, it is because the League has abandoned the Conference of Leaders, choosing another proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u20	Therefore, the proposal is to maintain the timetable of work voted by the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u23	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote on the timetable, to be clear. I do not understand and do not understand the hilarity caused among the benches of the League Group by the intervention of my colleague, President Pharaoh, because what has been done is correct. This is demonstrated by the proposals made by Mr Romeo. The first proposal, in order not to vote the calendar together with the majority, in order to distinguish itself, in order to boycott the strong attempt of confrontation that we are carrying out, was the one relating to the date of the presence in the Senate of Minister Hope. We have asked, as a Parliament, precisely to play a central role also on the DPCMs, for the Government to always come to us to update and inform us. So much so that Minister Hope made exactly the proposal to come to the Senate before approving the DPCM to inform Parliament. But here Senator Romeo has a very important issue: he would like to do so twenty-four hours before, in order to vote against the calendar. In addition to this, Minister Hope, given the continuing accusations of some media and also some political parties about the preparation of the Government and our health system, will come to tell us the vaccination plan, which is ready because it will have to be carried out in a few weeks. Therefore, that presence is very important for Parliament, for the Senate of the Republic. Going to quibble about the times, sooner or later, without centering on the importance of that parliamentary passage, testifies a perch on positions that tend to boycott and exclude a serious and collaborative confrontation in an emergency situation for our country. I would add, on the question of the availability of Mr Gualtieri, who today I heard Senator Romeo rise as a defender of the Minister's prerogatives. The Minister, with a letter - as it were - typical, asked to come to Parliament, to the Chambers and, therefore, to their bodies, to make a comparison. A vote is already scheduled. Mr President, there is a vote on these issues, which has already been scheduled. President Conte will be here on 9 December, before the Council of Europe, precisely to obtain a precise mandate from Parliament. If Mr Gualtieri gives his willingness to make a comparison with Parliament; if that confrontation is to create assumptions, it must create consensus, it must serve to give a line of conduct of our Government, it is certain that it must be carried out in the Commission and not - as has been requested this morning - in this House, perhaps with five-minute speeches. We want something serious. We want to speak frankly and decisively about the future of our country. We want to have the opportunity to deepen the issues. There is no need to use the Senate Chamber to hold a press conference: for that there are so many halls in the Senate, of which you, Mr President, always grant availability. The League therefore reserves a room and makes a press conference to support the will of the lack of dialogue. I believe that the time has really come to take a step forward and to show the country that the current political class - therefore all of us - is able to handle this emergency, to give concreteness to the will for dialogue and to vote on a timetable of common sense, which involves Parliament's involvement in the decisions of the Government, which are important for our future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I think that at times like these people ask us not to divide ourselves on certain minor things - and I think that has happened to all of us - but to give certain answers. That is why, frankly, it is a little depressing that we should come to this House and discuss things which perhaps, if we had the will to hear and listen to each other, would seem common sense to everyone. I say this for a very simple reason. The Minister for Economic Affairs sent a letter, giving a willingness to come and inform and report to Parliament before the Ecofin meeting on 30 November. I understand, among other things, that the House of Deputies has decided that the Minister will report to the Commission. On this point I and other Majority Leaders have allowed ourselves to say with great tranquility that of the two to one. On the one hand, we want to come to this House: for a moment there was even the possibility of five-minute speeches. But you tell me, even if there were ten minutes, what discussion and what debate there would be. Everyone would come here and do their part - always so that everyone can make live or later a statement - perhaps discussing MES and not instead of what it will be about at the Ecofin meeting, and that is also about the reform of the ESM. Then there is the other option, which I repeat because it seems to me serious, which is to hear the Minister and to discuss within the competent Commissions - perhaps the two dealing with him - in which representatives of all the forces and of all parliamentary groups can speak more, have evidently more insights and answers from the Minister himself. We all know that information is information: it is not communication, so it does not end with a vote, it is Parliament's position. The vote will take place when the President of the Count Council comes, when there will clearly be a point on the ESM too. On the question of the ESM, we must end it with the fact that Italy always comes to the Ecofin with debates that honestly risk being misleading: we are the only country in Europe that discusses the ESM issue from morning to evening, without deepening it. This was an opportunity to really get into the substance, into the Commissions, of what this reform will be like, whether or not access to the ESM will be without conditionality, and then take our decisions. That is the point: it is about being serious once and for all. If you have to shake the flag, let's do it, so you are divided, colleagues, as we are: everyone has their own options. What I do not, however, tolerate, Mr President, is that with a debate in this House, which risks being just propaganda, our country comes to the Ecofin with an absolutely frayed debate and no kind of deepening. The time has come to give proof of seriousness. We cannot be the country that discusses only reopenings, dinner and skiing facilities. As for the presence of the Minister in the Chamber or in the Commission, we have been open - then President Romeo has left the Conference - to other options as well, but let us not be fooled: tomorrow there is a priority that concerns the country and all of us, that is the deviation; we do not make tricks and tricks. There may then be the willingness to have a discussion, but I believe that, if we are serious people, we must assume responsibility once and for all before the country: we must have a serious and technical discussion in order to really try to get into the matter, and not to blame one another in debates that risk being useless and ideological. Mr President, I still think it is absolutely useful for this information to be carried out within the Commissions and you will of course decide, as President, to which Commissions to entrust it to. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u29	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my explanation of vote is on our proposal, but also on those of my colleagues from Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia. In the meantime, I did not imagine - and I say this to my colleague, Mr Pharaoh, and I apologise if I smiled - that I had all that power in Parliament, so much so that I could block a majority initiative on my own. [[Applause.]] This is pretty incredible. But if that were true and you would like to attribute this power to me, then I tell you that already in the late afternoon I could sign a DPCM that allows the Italians to return to vote [[Applause.]] I would do so with great will and firmness, if it really were as you say, Mr Pharaoh. Returning to more serious matters, your bluff we see right away. Since it is my fault and my attitude - the League has made its proposal, which is to bring Mr Gualtieri to the House tomorrow - you can very well vote against the proposal put forward by the League. But Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy, to whom on this occasion you have tried to wink a little to try to divide them, have made a similar proposal. Therefore, vote against the League's proposal, but vote in favour of the proposal of Forza Italia and Brothers of Italy, which says the same thing. So at least it will not be the League which, by abandoning the Conference of Leaders, conditions Parliament. It will be you, with the vote that you will give in a few minutes, to determine whether you have the courage as a majority to come to face the theme of the MES, because you are not afraid to go before the Italians and show how you think. This is the right path that you have to highlight. [[Applause.]] It is your vote that determines the choices. There's a proposal for Monday, right? It would be no later than 30 November, namely the deadline set by Mr Gualtieri, and there would be plenty of time to prepare this House absolutely. But since I don't want to be the bad guy, you know what we do? We withdraw our proposal to amend the timetable; there is no kind of change in the timetable for us. We shall vote on the proposal made by Forza Italia, namely that Mr Gualtieri should come to the Chamber at noon on Monday. So, take off our proposals, there's no more excuses, gentlemen. Come on, come on, come on. Pull out everything you have inside and you want to prove to the Italian people [[Applause]] , and see if you have the courage to bring Mr Gualtieri to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u30	Colleagues, I would like to say straight away that on the changes to the timetable I will have the electronic voting procedure, in accordance with Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure, precisely to facilitate the calculation of votes, and I would like to ask you to make a few reservations which have been expressed in previous votes. Of course, this electronic vote will be without names. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, tabled by the Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia Groups, aimed at including in the next week's calendar the information of Minister Gualtieri to be carried out in the Chamber and not in the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, put forward by the Senators of the Forza Italia Group, aimed at anticipating the discussion on the updating of the return plan towards the medium-term objective, scheduled for the day of tomorrow, at 11 a.m. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Senator Romeo's proposal to anticipate the communications of Minister Hope has been withdrawn. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u33	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the President of the bicameral anti-mafia Commission made unpleasant statements to the people of Calabria, to the cancer patients and to Mr Santelli. We have asked, as should be done in these cases, that there should be an apology because it is possible for anyone to incur an injury or a slide. President Morra, instead of apologizing, has relaunched with even more unpleasant and inopportune statements. We have read a series of statements by all the institutional representatives of majority and opposition who joined our request for an apology which, at this point, Mr President, I do not think can be enough anymore. We have therefore formally stated in writing that we will no longer attend the meetings of the bicameral anti-mafia committee and its committees until this issue is clarified in the appropriate manner and time. We ask you to know what the majority intends to do about this: tell us whether you think that such an important bicameral guarantee committee should continue its work without the opposition (and in this case we will take note of it) or whether you think you will take, as we have read in the many statements of the past few days, initiatives to settle this affair characterized by an unprecedented institutional clash. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u36	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in order to take up Mr Vitali's speech, I would like to quote a statement that was submitted to me a few seconds ago: 'Morra should not have said that sentence', which the Chief Prosecutor of Catanzaro Gratteri said just now, saying, among other things, that among the thousand telephone interceptions that he read during his work as a magistrate he never found the name of Jole Santelli, neither as a subject of interceptions, nor as a person brought up by other delinquents or alleged delinquents. ( [[Applause]] ). A bad page has been written in these hours and honestly this intervention I wanted to avoid. There has been a growing first of all because, with that sentence made by Senator Morra, a person has been attacked who is no longer here today and to whom we send a warm embrace from this House, especially on a day like this. ( [[Stretch applause.]] [[Many senators stand up]] ). President, all cancer patients have also been attacked, extraordinary people who have to live their lives intensely and who have to transmit to us indelible values of which we should all be bearers. ( [[Applause]] ). All Calabrians were then offended by a free and democratic choice that they made only a few months ago. And I regret to repeat it this day: even Senator Morra offended all women when he spoke of resurrecting the hymen for everything that happened in the past on Lucanian health care. ( [[Applause).]] VOICES. Shame! Shame! Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u37	Please, Senator Pepe, I invite you to conclude. [[Comments and protests]] Please, colleagues, if you speak out of the microphone, I can't hear you. You can also protest but you can't hear anything. Let Senator Pepe finish his speech. [[Protests]] Everyone has the right to express what he believes, especially in a circumstance like this. [[Applause]] Please, Senator Pepe, finish. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). In conclusion, President, hoping that it is over, Senator Morra has offended all Italians saying that those who do not think like him are in favor of the Mafia, but the banner of anti-Mafia do not leave it, neither to Senator Morra, nor to the Movimento 5 Stars, because that banner is of all Italians, of the vast majority of honest Italians. [[Applause]] It is clear that we will continue not to participate in the work of the Commission, Mr President. It is clear why the role of the Presidency of the Anti-Mafia Commission, which requires balance and a sense of responsibility, as it is now interpreted, ends up delegitizing the whole anti-Mafia Commission. [[Applause]] And most importantly, President, until today we have seen that President Morra... [[the microphone automatically switches off]] Terms, Senator Pepe. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). ... I use to pontificate, to attack the opponents, now it has made it really big, it has exceeded any limit, any kind of decency. I turn to the majority forces: many of the majority have stigmatized President Morra's sentences. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to me. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Dear colleagues of the majority, have a glimpse of pride and dignity, because it is up to you and not to us to ask for the resignation of President Morra! [[Applause]] Speak this word, have a shot of pride and dignity! [[Applause]] VOICES. Resign! Resign! Resign!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u40	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, the Fratelli d'Italia Group, in the people of myself as the leader of the party in the Anti-Mafia Commission, together with Senator Ciriani and Mrs Ferro, was forced to inform you on Saturday that we would no longer be taking part in the meetings of the Commission because, as previous speakers have said, President Morra's statements are unworthy of the high institutional level it covers. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: [[Applause),]] a President of the Region freely elected by the Calabrians, but above all - let me say this - a woman who, at the moment when her life was at risk, still felt to be engaged for her own people and for the sake of her own land. We cannot throw stones, we cannot overshadow petty realities when we are in the presence of people who should only be praised and taken as an example. We do not understand, President Morra, why an oncology patient cannot be voted on by a citizen. We are all under heaven; cancer patients can heal. What is the logic of your statement? It is absolutely incomprehensible and out of place, just as we do not understand the inability of the Calabrian people to choose their representatives. It seems to me that in the 2018 general elections, the Calabrians, like most of the southern people, voted massively for the 5 Stars. On that occasion, then, the Calabrians and southerners were able to choose and choose the best [[Applause]] While they are unable to understand and will today and completely bowed to the logic of the corrupt and the malavitous? No one has the license of honesty that can confer on others and offends even more what we heard in the following hours, when we heard that a plot was in place that wanted Morra out of the Anti-Mafia Commission to play the game of dark forces. It is an accusation that we of Brothers of Italy reject in the most complete way, and this is testified by our history always deployed for the legality and for the State that we all represent. No one has the exclusive banner of the fight against crime and corruption. Mr President, we ask you for a strong and authoritative speech, as you are able to do, in order to clarify this matter, including President Morra's failure to participate in the transmission of the RAI. I hope that the RAI Supervisory Committee will in the next few days listen to the director of Rai 3 Franco Di Mare, and who knows that we will not discover, President Morra, that behind certain decisions and its exclusion there is not a very different political part from the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u43	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank, among the many people, a small town in Padua, who gave me her opinion on this matter a few nights ago. He said, "What am I looking at to see if a politician is authentic?" Not when he says the most comfortable thing, the most obvious or brings water to his mill but when he has the courage to say what others keep silent, even if it will harm him. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u44	Please, let's get this over with. I don't understand. Please continue, let's see what you have to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u45	ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, I understand that there is fibrillation, there is food frenzy, as with sharks.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u46	Sorry, if people want to get out, they will, so we can hear Senator Endrizzi's surgery. [[Comments]] Please, otherwise I'll suspend the session. Do not create assemblies, exits. It seems to me that we are dealing with a very sensitive issue and I would like it to be quiet. Senator Endrizzi, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr President, if you will allow me to return the video shot to complete my speech. I understand that the League is annoying to a citizen's opinion, but I have reported words that are not mine. I have reported words that come from the people, and this is obviously annoying, because the language beats - especially that of the people - where the tooth pains. Well, this lady told me that she doesn't see if a person does the most comfortable thing, or that it suits her best, but when she has the courage to go against the current, all the more so if she recognizes a mistake of her own. President Morra apologized for that part of his words that went beyond his spirit and intentions, especially in the passage perhaps from the minutes to the printed transcript, and this, to the eye of this lady, makes him credible. He told me that he listened to his words and that he listened to those that also came from the other political forces and their reactions and that he had made an idea of his own: he is not giving a demonstration of credibility a certain center-right tracotante, muscular and unscrupulous, who first chose a figure of high institutional profile as Jole Santelli, as candidate president to the Region, and then inserted in his lists Domenico Tallini; in fact, on the one hand, we have the Vice President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, a person esteemed in his role, and on the other hand, a person who instead had to respond to several episodes of corruption. What is the consistency between the unanimous vote in the bicameral anti-Mafia Commission and the guidelines of the code of self-regulation for parties in the composition of the lists and then not to draw the consequences from the fact that, after they had all unanimously voted in that Commission, from the League to Brothers of Italy, the document declaring Domenico Tallini entrepreneurial, the same was awarded with the election as President of the Regional Council? [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u48	But do not make the situation worse with these excuses, please, because you cannot do this. If you'd like to give me a suggestion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me speak: did you not hear in this House that it was precisely Gratteri from the Catanzaro Public Prosecutor who called for respect? ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, do you want to argue with me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're talking about someone who's dead. You can't even talk about an absentee, let alone a person who's dead. You can't! You can't and you can't! There is a code of ethics of conduct and conduct beyond which one cannot go. [[Vivaci commentati]] That's not possible. There's no mention of a dead person. You can't sully the name of Jole Santelli. [[Repented comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u49	Look, President, that I told Jole Santelli the opposite: either you do not then listen to me, or you were already prepared to censor my words, you who should guarantee the debate. [[Applause]] I didn't offend anyone. I said that he was a highly institutional figure and appreciated in the bicameral anti-mafia committee. So, let's make an effort to understand the words, because otherwise we don't get out of it. [[Happy comments.]] VOICE. Go home! That's not possible!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u50	Don't you dare, because otherwise I'll send you out, you understand? Do not allow yourself to speak to the Presidency. Have respect for the institutions. There is no institutional respect here if we are allowed to speak of deceased people in this House. [[Applause]] Mr. President, I'm taking it back. [[Comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. verbal violence has nothing to do with democratic confrontation!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u51	If you want to hand me the surgery. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u52	Please, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u53	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. I would like everyone in their own home to have the exercise of recognizing mistakes, because if from the center-right, at least the freest and most liberal part, that today has expressed itself in tones certainly different from others and that perhaps it is unraveling from a somewhat rough embrace and not conciliable with the political dialogue, if at least from these forces does not arrive an explanation of what happened the citizen must find the explanations of himself and in the words of President Morra, although susceptible to misunderstanding and in some ways mistaken, we recognize and think that someone that courage has found him... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] The League should have the courage to say whether good and just feelings can be distorted and labeled as goodness and paintings as evil when it comes to refugees, immigrants and - why not? - even illegal immigrants. In fact, I spoke of good and just feelings, based on justice, not ideological and abstract. I wonder why in this case goodness is an evil and instead becomes a virtue, when the dignity of illness and death is rightly defended. This has also been done and it cannot be denied that there has been a problem with this, but it cannot be done to hide an unacceptable shame... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] It cannot be done to hide a shame, unacceptable and wanted, such as putting Tallini on the list and rewarding him then with the presidency of the Regional Council. [[Applause]] Not a word came from the League about this. Who speculated then on the important role of Jole Santelli? Have the League the courage to say today that on Tallini came not suspicious, but very serious accusations, which led him to arrest for external competition in Mafia association and vote of political-mafia exchange. I want to say this here: according to the accusation, Domenico Tallini's relations with the Cosca Grande Aracri, by Nicolino Grande Aracri, who today was imprisoned at 41- bis in the prison of Opera, would have concerned the constitution of a society, based in Catanzaro. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u54	It is true that it has been interrupted several times, but time has recovered it. I'll give you one more minute and that's it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u55	I was talking about a company aimed at... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Ma'am, can we change the microphone? If there is any technical problem switching microphones because it is really difficult for me to intervene in this way. [[Applause]] I was talking about a company aimed at the wholesale distribution of medicinal products, through a network of outlets consisting of pharmacies and parapharmacies: winds in Calabria, two in Puglia and one in Emilia-Romagna. Who then really speculated on cancer patients, treatments, drugs? [[Applause]] VOICE. Bravo! ENDRIZZI (M5S). But this did not happen. I can accept criticism from those who put themselves at stake and look inside, otherwise the worst betrayal of the truth is to use it for purpose of interest. The Movimento 5 Stars (in addition to the President himself) did what he had to do: he distanced himself from those words and only those, because many citizens recognize themselves in the rest of the message, in its central and supporting part: a beam for a change that honests across Italy see untouchable and crystalline. Politics in Calabria is diverted by the 'ndrangheta. [[Applause]] The Calabria Region has a deficit that can no longer be healed autonomously; most of this deficit is due to the management of health care. The Calabria Region is not guaranteeing Calabrians the right to health. I'm... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u56	Senator, I'm really ending this now because time is really over. Get it done. I've seen you've prepared a written intervention, but if you synthesize it, it'll do me a favor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u57	I'll synthesize it then, thank you. Domenico Tallini had to answer for several episodes of corruption, but he was placed on the lists and then awarded with the presidency of the Regional Council. Now, following the "Farmabusiness" investigation, right on the dark sides of calabra health care, he is being held on this charge. Thanks to the work of Mr Tallini, the Grande Aracri criminal group was able to obtain facilities, contacts and meetings with regional officials in order to obtain facilities. For this reason he is challenged by the external competition and is considered the zipper between the clans and the public administration. You can choose if you want to go beyond the opportunity to speculate and arm a controversy that for the most part is instrumental and with this blocking... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u58	Time's up. Excuse me, but you doubled it. I gave her the time she'd lost.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u61	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I speak very quickly because I believe that this debate must be done in a different way and in a different context, by reconstructing a framework. In recent months we have been under pressure from many (Order Forces, judiciary, traders, business realities) who have explained to us how much the fight against the Mafia at this time takes on an even more particular value than before, so that the real risk that the mafias can take advantage of the economic crisis that the pandemic has produced is very serious and very important. Let me say that if the answer of politics and Parliament is this debate, I think it is totally inadequate. [[Applause]] I say this from the Parent Company in the Anti-Mafia Commission, which immediately stated very clearly that the tones and content of some of President Morra's statements were wrong and that the words used were not suitable for those who represent an institution. Having said that, Mr President, if the situation is the one I have discussed, I think that we must change the register and that the debate cannot be exhausted in a polemic or an arm of iron but must look to the priority of all of us, that is to fight the mafias and that - I say this to everyone, I do not give the responsibility to someone - delegitimize, empty and boycott the anti-mafia Commission, making a decisive instrument disappear in the fight against organised crime, is madness. [[Applause]] I repeat, I think it's crazy. Therefore, I invite President Morra, the center-right (who rightly is offended by some statements that have nothing to do with the fight against the Mafia and that have offended the memory of Jole Santelli) and all of us to look at this priority, namely the need not to kill the Anti-Mafia Commission and not to fail, at this very moment, such an important instrument. Nobody has to set the scene; let's try to open a debate and see what we can think about in order to relaunch the work of the Anti-Mafia Commission (the President must do this first). However, I call on everyone to take a step back; let us make a priority available to us as right-wing and left-wing politicians, to the government or to the opposition: to fight the mafias and put organised crime in our sights. [[Applause]] Our polemics do not have to adversely affect the struggle against the Mafia. We are really closing this afternoon the controversy and also - let me say this - a little propaganda on all sides and let us focus on the need to relaunch the anti-mafia in this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u64	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, Aldo Moro always used an expression: The person first of all is the person. I believe that proposing that the President of the anti-Mafia Commission give up his position is inappropriate at this historic moment, as my previous colleague has already said. However, I should like to stress a not indifferent detail. With the statements that have been made by President Morra and also with the subsequent justifications of both the same, that of who - perhaps - represents him and spoke for him, we are sending the country a very clear message: that is that the person does not apply to what he is but to what he has or can give. And this is unacceptable because none of us knows the time, the time, or the way. So, the fact that Jole Santelli was unfortunately suffering from cancer, or that she could be an elderly person or a person with disabilities, would have led to the impossibility of her candidacy? I would like to pay attention to this because, in this case as in others, this subtle vision of our society is sometimes underlying legislative decisions and amending proposals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u67	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, since today is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, I think it would be appropriate to say at least one word of deep regret for a vulgar expression, used as a political metaphor, that concerning the reverging of hymen. It is an ugly phrase; no matter how much it may have been pronounced in a context of political dialectic there are certainly other metaphors that a man of culture like Morra could have used. Then I listened to Senator Endrizzi's surgery. It is true: the accusations made by the President of the Regional Council of Calabria Tallini are very serious and must be considered in the gravity of the accusation (which is an accusation) and in the gravity of the context. However, that intervention loses a political orientation where the Movimento 5 Stars and the Government have reconfirmed at the head of the ENI not a suspect but a defendant (standing at the prosecutor of the Republic and its accusations) for the largest international bribe ever paid by the ENI. That's not an investigation: he's a defendant and you should get to judgment soon. Perhaps for prudence I would not have reconfirmed it, because it could happen what happened to the managing director of Leonardo SpA, former Finmeccanica, condemned for having rigged the budgets of Monte dei Paschi di Siena and that today he still finds himself at the head of Leonardo. When we do strange interventions, they lose their fiber when children and stepchildren are improperly made among the so-called bad guys. I would like to remind you that the 5 Star Movement and this Government have reconfirmed at the head of the ENI and Leonardo two people; in the case of the second one has already arrived at a sentence and the defendant has been found guilty, while in the other case we do not know yet, but we know that he is accused in the most serious trial for international corruption concerning the ENI. So be careful when you make the bad guys' charts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u70	[[Comments]] Let Senator Morra speak, please. Please, Senator Morra. MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that there are a number of cancer patients in this House too, even a few metres away from me. And I believe that those who know me (and not only) understand that all of us Italians, all of us, just because everyone could have experienced on themselves the bitter experience of the pain experienced by those who are next to you, we bring respect to those who fight the disease, whatever it is. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u71	Let's talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u72	MORRA (M5S). There is a matter called respect. I listened to everyone. [[Applause. Comments]] I remind myself that the deceased Jole Santelli, in an interview given to a Cosentine newspaper (I don't remember if "La Gazzetta del Sud" or "Il Quotidiano del Sud": please verify), in the past legislature, to the precise question about who appreciated more among his Calabrian colleagues, replied: Senator Morra. I invite you to check it out. Now, I must apologize to all those people who, having experienced on their flesh the suffering of an imponderable disease, of a lancinating disease, which does not give you the opportunity to build a future, have felt in those words an offense to their condition. To those people I must apologize, because, however, having uttered a syncopated sentence, that is, without having completed the thought, I lent my side to all possible interpretations. [[Applause]] A little, however, we know each other, Mr President, and if one thing distinguishes my political action, it is always to look at those behind me, at those who are weaker, more fragile, more suffering. I am an elected senator in Calabria and I am ashamed of the conditions under which Calabrian health care is provided. [[Applause]] Mr President, if you remember that radio interview - I invite everyone to listen to it in the podcast, and not in the transcription, by some wisely done, with the skill of the tailor: I take something from here, I take something from there and then I build something absolutely different from the original - perhaps it will also detect the anger that an elected person, as well as a citizen, as well as a group of people who had to deal with Calabrian public health, having to run away and also having to go out of the Region because, otherwise, there were no problems in the sense that everything was going wrong. I myself have produced, in the last parliamentary term but also in this parliamentary term, parliamentary questions, to which I have not had an answer, for cases of malasanity, which is probably followed by malajustice, because this is also the case in Calabria. If I then have a question before me, which reads: do you think, Senator Morra, Calabria is irrecoverable? And my answer is: Calabria is irrecoverable insofar as the central government decides not to invest in training, education and culture; because that was my answer, I am not at all claiming that Calabria is doomed to a tragic destiny, as many would like. [[Applause]] I am simply sending a desperate cry for help to the institutions, also to my Government, because I also support it, which still has difficulty in pointing out a Commissioner ad acta for Calabrian health. You see, now I'm bringing a topic that could fly to the so-called oppositions, because I have only one master: it's called truth. And that's the truth, which a lot of people don't want to hear. In the same way, Mr President, it is also true that there is another truth, namely that in Calabria, if we investigate the perverse relations between public health and conventional health, very often we discover the unspeakable, as has been shown... [[the microphone automatically switches off]] . . Operation "Farmabusiness," conducted by the Anti-Mafia District Directorate of Catanzaro the past time. It is also true, Mr President, that I have a moral obligation - and I have not escaped from it - to apologise to all those people who have genuinely and sincerely been offended by those words, because they could also be interpreted in that way. [[Applause]] It is also true that perhaps someone - but perhaps - is exploiting the matter. [[Applause.]] Perhaps to investigate a business like health care in Calabria - now I also mention Dr. Gratteri - which probably produces more profits than cocaine... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I'm sorry, but probably like Senator Endrizzi, I have technical problems with the microphone. As I said, perhaps investigating these issues can become problematic for those who have a perverse and shady relationship with health care. You know, Dr. Gratteri - another quote - deliberately speaks of the organized disorganization of Calabrian health care: it seems to me in fact a unique case in Italy that there are health companies with oral accounting. This is Calabria and I am now asking you, Mr President, and the House who has ruled health in Calabria. [[Comments]] Who is responsible for what has happened? I also remind everyone that, during the electoral campaign for the last regional, the same Jole Santelli, with a courage and with a determination that must be recognized, however, in several interviews, also to Antonello Caporale on "Il Fatto Quotidiano," had to consider the theme of the disease, having the courage to bring it to the center of public debate, which with great hypocrisy and so much Italian perbenism, hypocritical and whitewashed sepulchres, is not allowed. If you remember well then, Mr President, on the occasion of the commemoration of Jole Santelli, I was the one who spoke in this Chamber, begging all political forces to work. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u73	Senator Morra, unfortunately, you have exceeded your time. Colleagues, before I turn to the subject on the agenda for today's sitting, I would like to say that frankly I never wanted this debate to be held today. [[Applause]] That is why I would like to remind Jole Santelli once again in this House, just as we remembered her when she was missing, as a great woman. [[Applause]] It must be said today that we are celebrating the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women; it must be said aloud. [[Applause]] We all then said and remembered her courage, her witness of service to the Calabrian community and Calabria, a land she held deeply and loved intensely of a love clearly paid, as we have seen. To close this debate, I would like to say that with you Calabria has lost a reference and a guide, also with respect to that concept of legality that has been repeatedly recalled today. [[Applause. Comments.]] Everyone does what he wants in life.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u74	The next item is the debate on the drawing-up of draft law No 1762. The rapporteur, Senator De Petris, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u75	Mr President, it is not easy, even after the debate just ended, to address this issue today. But I would like to draw a little attention to the work done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has brought together all the groups - and I would like to thank them for that - on the draft law under discussion, which is very important. I would like to say that it was an absolutely right choice, today, 25 November, on the occasion of the International Day of Combating Violence against Women, to arrive here not only with a general debate but by making available to this fight an absolutely fundamental instrument. This bill, which stems from the work of the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide - I would therefore like to thank President Valente and all his members - is an absolutely fundamental tool for putting in place policies and initiatives that are increasingly appropriate and necessary to defend women in the fight against violence and also for having all the knowledge of the phenomenon, having all the elements available. This is how the institutions do it: they have the elements at their disposal, they study, they have the data, and for this reason they can decide and adapt their policies. The draft law under discussion, approved unanimously by the 1st Commission, is an important part of the overall framework of the state's fight against gender violence, filling the gaps in the system of data collection and statistical analysis. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] It introduces effective instruments of verification and control on a very serious phenomenon such as gender violence and feminicide, which unfortunately does not seem to have stopped or withdrawn. Gender-based violence is a social and cultural phenomenon of a structural nature, which finds its deep roots in the patriarchal system, which still permeates the relations between genders in our country today. The United Nations, at the World Conference on Violence against Women held in Vienna in 1993, defined such violence as any act linked to the difference in sex which causes or may cause physical, sexual, psychological or suffering of women, including the threat of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of freedom in both public and private life (Article 1 of the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women). According to Istat, in our country one in three women suffered some form of violence during her life, especially in the family. This means that in Italy just under 7 million women between the ages of sixteen and seventy have suffered physical violence, from less serious to more serious forms, such as attempted strangulation or rape. The tip of the iceberg phenomenon - we know well - is the feminicide, which represents a predominant part of the murders of women, with the characteristic of aging in the family or within the less stable sentimental relationships. The World Health Organization has long known that the first cause of murder in the world of women between the ages of sixteen and forty-four is at the hands of known persons. The numbers are frightening: about 140 cases per year in Italy for a total of about 600 feminicides every four years. Since 2000 more than 3,300 women have been killed in Italy, of which 2,400 have been in the family and about 1,650 have been killed at the hands of their spouse, partner or former partner. This means that in our country on average every three days or so a woman is killed. In 55.8 percent of cases between author and victim there is a sentimental relationship, in place at the time of the murder or prior. If you add to these the cases where there was a relationship between the author and the victim, it turns out that in more than 75% of the cases women die in the family within this narrow circle, that is, within the environment in which you should feel more secure and more loved. Within the class of feminicides at the partner's hands, 63.8 percent of the cases show that the victim and the author are spouses or cohabitants, 12 percent engaged, 24 percent still had a sentimental relationship. As was expected, during last spring's lockdown the situation worsened further: the total number of murders decreased, but not the murders with female victims. This is one of the most significant data that emerges from the report prepared by the criminal analysis service of the leadership of the Criminalpol. The document analyses the development of gender-related crimes in the period from January to June 2020, compared with the same period of the previous year. In-depth analysis is concerned precisely with the data on voluntary murders, which are confirmed in decrease compared to last year; but female victims increase, from 56 to 59 and, if in 2019 they constituted 35 percent of the total murders, in 2020 the incidence stands at 45 percent. Overall, therefore, during the eighty-seven days of lockdown for the emergency coronavirus there were 58 murders in the family and emotional environment; 44 women and 14 men were killed. This means that during lockdown every two days a woman was killed in the family. Gender violence, although, as we have seen, is a structural and widespread phenomenon, remains largely submerged. The data I mentioned earlier, so pitiful, require the state to equip itself with tools to understand the mechanisms that legitimize and fuel violence against women and to develop strategies and policies to counter them. In Italy, the lack of up-to-date official statistics on the number of crimes committed against women and, more generally, on the phenomenon of gender violence has been put to our attention several times. Istat's Director-General Linda Laura Sabbadini, speaking in 2019, during her hearing at the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, pointed out that the analysis tools are currently insufficient and the existing sources are multiple, fragmented, lacking and even not uniquely defined. Administrative sources in health, legal and social matters are also not yet adequate. Well, the measure we are examining today is intended to fill the gaps in our system, starting from the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence (Istanbul Convention), which clearly defines the strategies that the acceding States must adopt, with the aim of eliminating all forms of violence and oppression in gender relations. It summarizes them in the so-called three Ps: preventing, protecting and pursuing, plus a fourth P on policies, a cross-cutting strategic axis for the construction of an integrated data collection system and monitoring and evaluation activities. With this in mind, the Istanbul Convention considers it essential that every acceding State is endowed with instruments capable of carrying out a thorough analysis of the complex social phenomena that are upstream of the unleashing of violence and, in fact, Article 11, classified as "data collection and research" expressly says: (a) collect at regular intervals relevant statistical data broken down on issues relating to any form of violence falling within the scope of this Convention. So, we with this bill implement exactly what the Istanbul Convention had prescribed. Let's get to the measure. Article 1 identifies the aims of legislative intervention, i.e. to ensure an adequate flow of information on the frequency and content of violence against women. Article 2 provides that, in order to support policies and actions to combat gender violence, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Department of Equal Opportunities for conducting sample surveys will use data and surveys carried out by Istat and the National Statistical System (Sistan). Istat and Sistan therefore carry out, every three years, a sample survey entirely dedicated to violence against women that also produces - this is very important - estimates on the submerged part of the different types of violence (physical, sexual, psychological and economic). The provision gives the Minister the power of guidance on the identification of the need for statistical reporting in the field of prevention with regard to equal opportunities. Another important aspect, which has been an element of discussion, is the question of psychological and economic violence for women, which must also be complemented by questions concerning the presence of children. It is also expected... ( [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ). The questions for the collection of data are those used in the most recent investigation on the safety of women carried out by Istat, with the possibility that they can be supplemented by Istat and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Department for Equal Opportunities, with appropriate measures. Article 3 states that the report to Parliament on the activities of Istat, as referred to in Article 24, shall be supplemented by a report on the implementation of Article 2. The obligations laid down in Article 4 with regard to first aid operations are also very punctual. This provision also stipulates that by a decree signed by the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister with a delegation to equal opportunities and with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the appropriate changes to the present system are to be made and indicated. Article 5 states that the Ministry of the Interior shall, within 12 months of the approval of this bill, issue a decree to ensure that the data processing centre can allow a detailed list of all the offences that we have indicated to be collected. Article 6 provides that the Minister of Justice shall, within 12 months with his own decree, amend the rules for the enforcement of the Code of Criminal Procedure in relation to the regulation of the register of criminal records. Article 7 carries out investigations on anti-violence centers and shelter houses accredited on impulse and request also of the Department for Equal Opportunities. In conclusion, I hope today that the unanimous vote in committee will be confirmed by this House. Once again, unfortunately, even today, we must remember two other women killed, one in Calabria and the other in Veneto. It is truly incredible that even on the day dedicated to the fight against violence, we must mourn the murder of two women. I therefore believe that having chosen today to adopt this measure - and thanking everyone for their cooperation, I hope that the House can approve it unanimously - is also a way of honouring these two women, together with all the others, killed only as women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u76	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u77	Mr President, just a few words to acknowledge the importance of having brought to pass today a draft law that fills the lack of strategies that, as a country, we can put in place. On 25 November, it is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and today to take on such an important commitment means certifying that the institutions of our country not only celebrate this day in the proper memory and witness of the victims of violence, but take on the effective responsibility of putting in the field policies that go to fight this violence without if and without but. The process of knowledge that we are going to give thanks to this provision, does not recognize violence only the characteristic of an instant act but also the fact that it is the product of evolving dynamics that must be known and interpreted through a stable scientific and structural process. I am grateful to the Commission for bringing this measure to this House, and I am grateful to the rapporteur for having followed it with such great attention in the Commission and in all the political forces which, across the board, have supported it. The policies that we will put in place starting from this measure will certainly have to address prevention, protection, the pursuit of crimes but, still and increasingly, to promote that freedom and dignity that we must give back to all the women of our country and that only a full gender equality will really be able to protect and guarantee. Today this is a further starting point for a path to be taken together as institutions and as a country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure in the text put forward by the Commission. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u81	LONARDO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. (16.57) (Lonardo followed). It is very important that the Senate celebrates it with the approval by the Assembly of the bill laying down provisions on statistics on gender violence. I thank the Commission all, its President and in particular... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u82	Colleagues, who has to go out do it now, please, so that Senator Lonardo can intervene. I also turn to those who stay in the emicycle area.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u83	LONARDO (Mixed). Thank you, President. As I said, I would like to thank the Commission, from its President to the rapporteur. I share all the work done and every article of this measure. I would like to draw the attention of all of us to the commendable objective of the investigation of the victim-author relationship, as set out in Annex A to the draft law, of all the offences listed in paragraph 3 of Article 5, since it is my opinion that this Parliament, with this draft law, can make a difference, namely to mark an important point towards a greater emergence of the phenomenon. The Istanbul Convention has been cited several times, referring to the three Ps (preventing, protecting, prosecuting) in order to achieve a fourth P, the policy one. In order to prevent, we must also protect, and I am referring to the anti-violence centres, an excellent intuition of politics, hoping that they will not remain without adequate funds. As I said, precisely with particular attention to the victim-author relationship, the anti-violence centres play an irreplaceable role, which have always set themselves the objective of welcoming, listening, protecting and, not least, guiding women who are victims of violence. It is on the anti-violence centers that institutions must aim, providing all the necessary support because they represent the instrument without which many women would not even be able to find the courage to break the chains that bind them to their executioners. It is within such centres that psychologically abused women become aware of what they have experienced, because let us not forget that when psychological co-optations are suffered, they even give up their point of view in order to survive and they come to think that what they undergo is normal. It is precisely through paths aimed at increasing self-love and self-esteem that these women realize evil immediately and stop pleasing, even justifying, their own executioner. We must not stop, but pursue in order to create all the opportunities necessary to combat the phenomenon. Politics is present and even today's bill shows it, but in order to create conditions and to try to limit the phenomenon everyone must play their part. This year is certainly an event that takes on an even stronger significance: we are in fact in the age of the coronavirus pandemic and this has impacted heavily on the phenomenon of domestic violence on women and girls, which is literally exploding precisely because of the lockdown. In the year of the pandemic incredibly reduces the murders, but the feminicides continue their surge, tripled in the days of lockdown. The official crime police numbers report that 75 percent of the victims of family crimes are girls, wives, and ex-girlfriends. The pandemic abolished sociality, but certainly not violence against women: it only confined it even further into their homes. We are facing an emergency in the emergency that grows within our homes, it is true, but that runs also and especially on the web. That very web must be the next aim of this Parliament. There is a strong need to make it safe and controlled; to us the task of being responsible for the regulatory tools available to tighten also around the net those same screws that we are tightening today with this bill. It is precisely from that network that monsters often come out today that enter the homes of women, girls and not only; it is known that crimes such as stalking, for example, find their incipit right on the web, as well as through the web they consume crimes such as revenge porn, one of the most cowardly forms of violence, which statistically sees women as the main victims. Unfortunately, it can be considered a phenomenon in exponential growth in recent years in our country, where the episodes of pornographic revenge and sexual blackmail have sometimes taken on dramatic contours, ending in the death of the victims exasperated by the situation created following the spread of their videos or private shots. There are not a few cases that you can remember of women violated on the web, whose hard videos have circulated on the net, on WhatsApp and on social media. So there are not a few of these cases of women exhausted from pain; just so, because we are in the field of so-called invisible violence, wounds that do not lose blood, because the soul is the only one to be struck. Through that web, the executioner's emotional detachment from the victim is maximum, as if the images were passing through that screen, passing the digital words, but never the emotions. That web today must be attended to by Parliament, with the same care that is being placed on today's bill, so that future regulatory actions become a corollary and completion of this measure, educating network users and empowering parents, because digital competence and digital education are in no way synonymous with each other and must be part of the cultural baggage of all of us, adults and children, no one excluded. After all, the stereotype wants the web understood as an object to be strongly surpassed: the web is a place to all effects, it is a boundless place and without protection. I as a woman to be honest that absence of protections on the net I clearly feel it. The insult, the hate speech and the threat are around the corner, ready to be launched against a people of haters and web dealers and if you are a woman you also lose the limit. Abused and raped women look like cut flowers - this is the image that subvents me - and as cut flowers they are destined to wither first. It is their soul that withers, even before the body. It is the pain that goes through them to put them out and every woman who goes out is a failure for institutions and for society as a whole. I hear that this Parliament will not fail, it will not miss the opportunity to play its part in history against violence against women and violence in general, as demonstrated by the draft law we are about to vote on, to which I am voting in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u86	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my political career began in 1999 when I was elected president of the South Tyrol Equal Opportunities Committee. At the time we were very active in the battle for women's rights and we did many campaigns to raise awareness of violence against women. I remember in particular one, in which a young woman was portrayed, with two blue bruises on her eyes and the writing: The blue eyes are his father's; or another, in which a little boy was portrayed beating a little girl, with the words: Daddy does it too. At that time these campaigns provoked great discussions and many men were offended by such representations. Twenty years later, I have the honour to talk about these issues in the Senate and it seems to me that nothing has changed. Today, those campaigns would probably no longer provoke scandal and all the highest offices of the State are publicly expressing themselves against violence against women, but the phenomenon has not stopped and, indeed, the numbers tell us that the situation has worsened, with 93 feminicides only this year, two of which just in these hours. One wonders how all this is possible, despite the campaigns, the activism of feminists and the laws, which in the various European countries have tightened the penalties. The only answer is that masculinism is a founding principle of our societies and has such deep roots that it will take so long and so much effort to remove it from our culture. It is clear that if man, in his unconscious, believes that he is superior to the woman and this then rebels, not doing what he wants, or even aspires to a life without him, he often reacts in the only way he has disposition, that is, violence. So, what is primarily to be done is to counter this culture of supposed male supremacy, which all too often finds food in the media, from advertising to representation of women in television series. Just read the newspapers of the last days: in Turin a teacher shares some images of her intimacy with her boyfriend, who sends them to the chat of her football team, until they end up at the headmaster, who calls the teacher to push her to leave the job; everyone discusses what this woman does in her private and nobody talks about who committed crimes, by the principal who induced her to dismiss all those who shared the videos. Not to mention Rai: only thanks to the women's protest the interview was not aired to the man who scarred Lucia Annibali, spraying her with acid on her face. As Michela Murgia recalled, no thief is interviewed to know why he robbed a bank. On the other hand, no one would ever think that the bank might have some responsibility for the theft it suffered. Instead, in women, in victims, public opinion always seeks guilt, as can be read in Vittorio Feltri's comment on the eighteen-year-old affair, which, while participating in a party, was taken to a room, locked up and raped for a whole night. For Feltri, the girl behaved naively, which is why she says she wants to give the victim general attenuators. Had she not been naive, according to Feltri's logic, she would have been completely guilty. This culture of the "how" was dressed, of the "because it entered its bedroom" and of the "what's' done to make one lose his head for good" is so deeply rooted in the minds of people. The task of us women, of us feminists, is therefore precisely to detect the invisible mechanisms of denigration of women, which hide everywhere, even in language, which knows the female form only for the low positions, while those of prominent exist only to the male, or in which metaphors are used as that of the revergination of the hymen. This is the most difficult aspect of the battle against this insidious phenomenon, but of course it is not the only one. There are still legislative gaps that need to be filled as a matter of urgency: the Red Code has introduced new very important offences such as revenge porn, but the crime of incitement to gender hatred has not yet seen the light. However, the largest sounding board of masculinistic and misogynistic culture is the Net. Here, in a climate of genuine impunity, hatred against women who do not behave as someone would like to reach the highest levels. There is also no effective rule against economic violence. We know that the latter is the breeding ground for all kinds of violence. In Italy, women's employment is the lowest in Europe and there is a high number of housewives without any kind of economic protection. In Austria and Germany they are entitled to a percentage of their husband's income, which they can obtain with forced execution even in constancy of marriage. There would be many other examples of the shortcomings of family law to the detriment of women, but unfortunately the debate we have is only around separate fathers. Well then, the measure under consideration which, by improving statistics, helps to better frame the phenomenon and can also be an important instrument for policy decisions, which must work for equality, because the fight for equality and that against violence are two sides of the same coin; it must promote the presence of women in apical roles and encourage fathers to take responsibility for family work. To women half the world, to men half the family: this must be our Leitmotiv. This can be achieved by promoting women's employment, by increasing child care structures, by rewarding parental leave taken by fathers and by providing gender quotas in the policy and top positions of public administration and listed companies. Politics and, above all, women in politics are still called to a great deal of effort to defeat the pandemic of the many forms of violence against women. It will be a long journey, but only in the end will Italy really be able to define itself as a civil and modern country [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u89	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr Bonetti, Undersecretary Castaldi, today is 25 November 2020 and unfortunately we are still in this House to remember the women who are no longer there, who have been killed, and those who are still there, but who are suffering, because they have been seriously abused. Unfortunately, this is a very serious global phenomenon: the World Health Organization has admitted it, writing that it is a global public health problem, because throughout the world at least one in three women in their lives suffers serious forms of violence and mutilation, until they are killed. This phenomenon is also serious in countries that claim to be states of law and worshipers of individual freedom, democracy and freedom; they are also countries of the European Union, established on the basis of Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, which says that they are based on the values of non-discrimination and equality between men and women. Italy, one of the founding countries of the European Union, has serious phenomena of violence: we must admit it and we must tell ourselves that it is structural violence, based, as my colleagues have said very well, on an inequality of power and roles between men and women; it is homogeneous throughout the national territory, transversal and independent of the work, training and the type of life that people lead; it ignores all this and is based on discrimination in relations between men and women. This is confirmed by the data that Istat already offers us today, because 80% of women do not suffer violence from strangers, as perhaps the clichés want us to believe, but from their family, friends, partners or former partners. In Italy until 2019 a woman was killed every two and a half days. This year, during the lockdown, when women were segregated at home with men who were the perpetrators of violence, we recorded a feminicide every two days, so with a greater frequency. In 70 percent of cases, feminicide occurs at home, in domestic contexts. For this reason, the Istanbul Convention speaks of domestic violence. We need to make this clear and we need to understand the phenomenon to be tackled, which affects 7 million women, that is, one in every three women in Italy today, in 2020. Of course, it is undeniable that much has been done, but these figures tell us that we must continue to do the same or perhaps much more. The Istanbul Convention is a milestone in many respects. In 2011 it was voted by the Council of Europe and ratified in Italy in 2013. It provides strategic guidelines, which it is essential to have; it clearly tells us that violence against women is a violation of human rights and a serious form of discrimination and indicates the way to combat gender violence. It gives us four strategic guidelines and tells us that we need to implement laws on prevention, protection, punishment and policies, which we are doing. Today we are working on the fourth P, i.e. on policies. On prevention we will work with other draft laws that the Commission on feminicide and colleagues are preparing, because we have to work in schools of every order and grade, including university, which forms judges, lawyers, journalists (so that we do not read any more such things as what we read yesterday on "Libero"), the ruling class that must change the culture of this country, the advertisers, those who pass images and those who must form a new critical conscience in this country. As for protection, historical are the battles and the importance of anti-violence centers, while less historical, but very effective, is the role of the centers for the re-education of abusive men. We must make it clear that, until we act on the perpetrators of violence, we will not be able to eradicate it. It is men who have to change their behavior: violence is their problem. [[Applause]] Much has been done on the subject of punishment. Many recognize that Italy has a complete legal system. Even with the last red code, the crimes that the Istanbul Convention provided for, such as the revenge porn, the crime of facial demorphion, forced marriage and female genital mutilation, were integrated. We have a comprehensive legal system, which of course can be improved. There is much to be done about the policy chapter, which is what we are working on today. It is clear that the action of Parliament and the Government can be fully effective if it is based on reliable, complete and widespread data. This is what we wrote in the bill under consideration. The data collected from the first aid, the Forces of Order, the police, the judiciary, the anti-violence centers and the maltreating men's centers must be merged into a single huge database that arrives at Istat, which redevelops them and gives them to politics, so that it can implement the best, most effective and targeted policies to combat this phenomenon. We need continuous flows of high-quality, accurate and comprehensive data at a territorial level. We realize that this is a huge challenge, but we can only act effectively in this way, as this is a huge scourge of our country. We can do all this only if we give ourselves space, over time, not to say every time we arrive in the Chamber: still a bill on women; certainly, again; until we have implemented the Istanbul Convention in all its four guidelines, we will not have finished doing our job or completing all the strategic action we need to eradicate violence in Italy. [[Applause]] We are ready to work hard, day by day; that is what we are doing in the Commission with feminicide, with the guidance, help, collaboration and great unity of intent of Mr Bonetti. We want to do this every day, in order to combat violence, starting with violent words and behavior. We must do this every day: we are not content to do it today, remembering and celebrating; we must do it every day, as women who suffer; from now on, however, every day they must commit themselves to doing it men, certainly those who are abusive, but also those who are not abusive and those who are not violent, who must help those who are violent to radically change their words, their behavior and their way of being in the society that we want to build. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u92	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-one years have passed since the first World Day against Violence against Women on 25 November and, since the beginning of the parliamentary term, this is the third one we are celebrating. I want to stress that we have always done something and that on all three occasions we have always managed to do it together, as the matter deserves, asks and demands. This year too, by way of derogation from the rules we gave ourselves, we have rightly included the draft law we are debating in conjunction with this day. This bill is the son and shared fruit of the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender violence, then approved in 1st and 5th Commission. Let's go back to the origins: I want to emphasize the fact that it is a shared work, I must also say with some difficulty and, sometimes, some opposition, overcoming sometimes the differences of vision between us. I do not happen to appear as a second signatory, after my colleague Valente (I believe that this is a symbolic fact), also because I was part of the group that devoted myself to the work on statistics and from the first meetings of the Commission we have emphasized exactly what the title of the bill reads, that is, provisions on statistics on gender violence. We, ladies and gentlemen, have thus attacked an ancient and old knot, namely the absence of data and databases that could dialogue with each other at national, but also at European level. Data collection is not a mania of mathematics, but the need for a qualitative-quantitative dimension to return real, useful and effective statistical analysis. That is the meaning of our bill. I think I can say that we have all intended to develop uniform and (second element) binding detection criteria, including the three-year frequency of Istat sampling research and the biennial frequency of investigations into anti-violence centres and shelter homes and the relationship between victim and author of violence. All of this why? We have a duty to bring out a flood, that of violence. We know how many of these acts of violence slip and hide in injuries, beatings, threats and private violence, when they have a name: violence against women and gender. We cannot stop at the observation of the classic tip of the iceberg. It is for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, that we have asked for data of a health and judicial level, therefore broken down and reasoned, at interministerial level, which also concern cases of complaints of violence suffered, but also of feminicide, that is those murders of women because of their being a woman. In short, the objective that we have set ourselves and that today in some way we reach - or, however, the path we have - is an information system on gender violence, to develop policies of prevention and contrast, just so that we do not stop at that point of the iceberg and bring out the invisible and cursed space of domestic violence or that lurk and hide behind private sentimental relations or, however, behind sentimental ties in place or interrupted. I could go on with technicalities, calling into question scientific literature or Senate acts, which I invite you to read. No: I would like this debate to be more passionate and involved than, moreover, it does not leak from the presences in this House. I mean, without claims, that the members of the Parliamentary Group, Brothers of Italy, the House and the Senate, today wear a mask marked by red color. Red is the color of blood, which unfortunately binds to acts of violence, but it is also the same of the actions that we all put in the field, in terms of prevention and contrast, from benches to red shoes. In short, it is a color that we wear also on this day not for empty celebrations, but to remember all the victims of violence in the world and to draw attention to the sad statistics. In Italy and in European countries, in fact, the average is the killing of a woman every three days. There are already 91 victims this year and 96 women were killed in 2019. It is also for this reason that today we decided to wear this mask, as an awareness campaign, recalling also what happened during the lockdown and contextualizing it. It will not escape anyone, in fact, that the pandemic situation we are experiencing must prompt us to reflect more on the impact on the female world, also in terms of economic crisis, resilience, social cohesion and the employment situation. Half a million women have lost their jobs in recent months, which is why we think that families, together with women, are paying the highest existential price to the pandemic. We therefore need the political and institutional attention of all, which will not be exhausted in today's celebrations, but will result in an organic system of extraordinary measures and protection and in a plan of economic instruments and reforms, as well as in the full application of the criminal rules provided for in order to render justice to the victims and punish the perpetrators of the crimes. For all of us it is therefore a daily political battle, but also a cultural one, against every backwardness that favors and foments all forms of violence on women, without if and without but, as has been said; I add: without political copyright on the part of anyone. It is a social issue that concerns everyone, not a private fact, and it is nobody's prerogative. That is why our thoughts today go to all those women who during the lockdown - who saw a 73 percent increase in requests for help - had to live captives of their torturers, intercepted by apps and chats because they could not go where they could be received or denounced. Therefore, by announcing the convincingly favourable vote of the party I represent, I want to conclude by inviting everyone to make an effort: let us never leave women alone, nor let them bear the burden of proof of the violence suffered. Unfortunately, let's face it, what we're talking about is a world that crosses the world, geographies, latitudes, religions, classes and beliefs. It is a social scourge and a pandemic in the pandemic, which, as such, must be looked at and perceived, without ever turning to the other side. The data tell us that each of us knows at least one case of violence: if we do not see it, it means that we closed our eyes and turned our backs, and this makes us accomplices. We must all assume this issue as a social, collective and shared emergency, not as a private fact to be dumped on the shoulders of the victims. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u95	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to thank you and Mr Bonetti, who are closely following the work of this House with a view to the adoption of this draft law. Of course, I also thank the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender violence, of which I am proudly a member. The senators and senators of the Commission will certainly not be offended if I give a special mention to President Valente, who represents everyone in that area and not only; he also does so today, on this occasion, pushing for the legislative proposal under consideration. Of course, thanks also go to the rapporteur, Senator De Petris. It is not a question of formal thanks. In fact, today we are here to examine this measure within the framework of the dramatic anniversary of 25 November - and it could not be otherwise - in which we celebrate the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. The opportunity is to add an important piece which, as Mr Bonetti himself said a short while ago, was basically lacking in the reasoning that falls within the arms we must equip ourselves to combat gender violence. This is, in particular, the whole part concerning the cognitive framework which, I would like to say, is the basis for dealing with this dramatic passage, which not only has to do with a cultural element - the one that must inform the public debate - but is also a very important investigative instrument, as mentioned in the previous speeches, especially in so far as we focus on the list of crimes against which the investigation in the relationship between author and victim becomes mandatory. In any case, this is also an opportunity to make a general reflection. I do not add anything to the things I have already heard and proceed quickly, even in relation to the time requirements with which we must measure ourselves. The reflection is as follows. We had to confront ourselves with the picture that emerged from the dramatic passage of lockdown, that we have all lived and that literally put a reality in our face, that is to say that condition of constraint - in which we have all set ourselves, of course following the government's instructions and the rules that we gave ourselves to protect our health - has become a real trap for many women. They reflect both the dramatic number of murders, therefore of the killings of women as such, recalled in the report of Senator De Petris, and especially how the data of the denunciations of crimes at that stage has collapsed. This tells us how dramatic the condition was for many women who have experienced a situation of real imprisonment, I would like to say hell. We have to. Remind us. It is not only the view of those who do not want to see it: I am referring to the fact that these crimes have as epicentre - I would like to say it using an ancient expression - the domestic outbreak and the walls of the house, which should instead be the perimeter of the protection of each individual, even more so of every woman in this society. We must make a commitment: it must never happen again that all women can potentially remain in a condition of loneliness, which is added to what we have all experienced. Secondly, as has been pointed out, here we put a brick to strengthen the commitment we have made within the framework of the Istanbul Convention. The previous speakers reminded me of the four Ps, the famous four commitments: protection, prevention, punishment and policies. So today we're doing our part to strengthen that picture. I say this first of all to you, Minister, that much has been spent in this direction: we have done a great deal in recent years, starting with the issue of punishment, but much still needs to be done, especially when I think of that important piece of the skeleton and of the whole structure that is part of the instrumentation to combat gender violence, that is, shelter houses and anti-violence centers. Much has been done in this respect in terms of resources, including in terms of adjustment to a more intelligent mechanism than had previously been imagined in relation to the allocation of funds through the regions. Much still needs to be done, however, because there is no doubt that the substance of these resources, therefore their size, but above all the possibility that they can be financed with a longer perspective on the time, are the only guarantee to plan the work and activities of those who have become very important terminals in this battle to combat violence against women. This is a commitment that we have made, that we have taken forward and that must be taken to the end, with all the consequences that it entails. Finally, perhaps the most important issue. The pandemic also confronted us with another fact, perhaps more dramatic: the risk is that the worst crisis, by proportion and numbers, of the history of the Republic and therefore of the democratic history of this country will be dumped first on the shoulders of women and that they will be the first to pay the highest price. I say this because we are not measuring ourselves with inequalities born today: the faults that are widening pre-existing to the pandemic, but this is a dramatic enlargement, and among them there is also the theme of the difference and disproportion between men and women in terms of rights, equality, access to opportunities and relationships of strength and power; to this end, we are talking about this. I say this in relation to some of the things we have been discussing over the past few months, from which we must even be fascinated: I am thinking of some changes in the labour market. 17.38 (Follows LAFORGIA). We often mention the smart working and all those forms that workers are currently experiencing to the full, but that risk being a tricky trap for many women in the absence of a framework of rules, starting, for example, from the right to disconnect. If we do not put in place such a framework of rules, this crisis risks being paid first and foremost by women. Today I happened to think - as I always do, but never in public terms - of my little girl, who will be four years old in a few hours; today I did it in this key, exactly as they have done in these hours - I think - many dads who have daughters. I've been thinking about my little girl and the woman she's gonna become and especially what we have to build. The discussion of these hours is not exactly in the best direction, but we need to build a climate between us... president. I would ask you to conclude because you have already exceeded your allotted time by more than a minute. LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). We must build a society in which 25 November is not simply a dramatic recurrence, but the day of liberation, first of all from gender violence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u96	Unfortunately, I have to announce that Maradona, the sportsman, the footballer who I believe in Italy has very influenced the passion for this sport. My condolences go to the family and fans who loved him.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u99	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I too, like Senator Laforgia, start from non-formal thanks. It is not an easy time to come to this House with a measure voted unanimously and this afternoon's debate is proof of this, but we have succeeded and, if we have done so, of course it is thanks to everyone (no one in particular, but everyone in equal measure). Of course, I begin by thanking the representatives of the Government: to Minister Bonetti, first of all for coordinating a work that has involved many Ministries; to Undersecretary Malpezzi, who in a first phase helped us to coordinate; to the Ministries of the Interior, Justice and Health, which are the competent ones. I would also like to express my special thanks to all the members and members of the Commission whom I have the honour of presiding over: to all, majority and opposition. As Senator Rauti pointed out, together with the two vice-presidents, we held an important initiative yesterday and we really worked together. This, I believe, is a merit, above all, to be ascribed to the subject we are called upon to deal with. I should also like to thank the members and members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and President Parrini and a special one, from woman to woman, to a fighting rapporteur, as is always the Senator De Petris, who has never given up in the face of the many difficulties we have encountered. I believe that much of the credit for arriving here today is yours, more than all of us, so thank you very much. On such a day, despite the commitment of each of us, there is at hand the risk of falling into rhetoric with phrases made or of circumstance; so certainly not only would the many women who continue to leave us be honored in a just way, but it would not be worth the valuable work that each of us tries to do every day. I therefore believe that the Senate has done well to avoid this rhetoric and to think of bringing a concrete act to the attention and approval of the House this day. We could have just made commemorations, speeches, the minute of silence, so many things that have their value; instead we thought that it was more just, useful and important - especially for us of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide - to bring home a result for the women of this country and for the many operators and especially the workers who work on the front. Much has already been said about this measure. I simply say that, in order to deal properly with a phenomenon, we must know it and we do not know it today. Just think of the data that emerged on this day: 70 feminicides or 90 are not the same thing; in the middle there are 20 people, 20 families, 20 women, 20 painful and dramatic stories. You won't hear me give the numbers, then. I will not give them because this country does not have them and for this reason we have thought of preparing this bill, which asks first of all to clarify the numbers, constant monitoring to observe the phenomenon over time, but above all to investigate the submerged. Many types of violence such as psychological and economic violence do not come to the surface. We do this by asking all operators to investigate that famous relationship between author and victim that can distinguish a normal damage from a damage that is done in the matter of gender violence. I think this has been a great merit. I personally want to honour this day - and I have said so in other circumstances in these hours - with words of truth, which I believe must question politics, political forces, but above all Parliament and the Government in the face of a fact that is read and simple, that questions and nails each of us and politics, in particular, to its very serious responsibilities. We have a perfectly satisfactory regulatory framework today. I can say this by taking responsibility for what I say and we have nothing to envy to other European countries. We remind all of us that in 1981 there was a crime of honour, in 1996 sexual violence was a violence against morals and not against the person and we arrived a few years ago to borrow measures even from the anti-mafia code such as the prohibition of residence in a municipality or the obligation to reside in another municipality, to try to attack the phenomenon. We have really equipped the regulatory system with tough measures. The installation is not only made of repressive measures because we have the Istanbul Convention, ratification, the stalking crime, which is ascribed to all governments of all political forces and that means that we do not recognize a particular merit to someone because we have all committed ourselves. Well, in the face of this phenomenon, we do not know any setback: it is these days the news that 2020 has been a dramatic year not only for lockdown. We cannot attack something deeper; we must question what does not work because, if we do not question ourselves, we will not do justice to ourselves, to our intellectual honesty and, above all, to women who are victims of violence and to the many who work on this front every day. What's wrong is the perspective with which we look at the phenomenon. Even remembering some victims, we continue today to question what a woman could have done to avoid, how a woman could have asked for more and better help and why she did not. Why do we keep asking ourselves about what women should have done? I would like us to try to ask ourselves what can happen in the mind of a man who gives himself the right to abuse a woman without giving him explicit consent. ( [[Applause).]] What Feltri said yesterday is not something that offends Feltri or a newspaper headline. It must be something that makes us all question why in Italy there has not been a choral reaction of indignation compared to the fact that a woman can choose to go dressed succinct at any time, can leave the house at any time, can go to a party where you use coke or think to be an escort. It is your choice, which will be judged if it constitutes a crime on other fronts. This does not give anyone the right to abuse a woman against her will for a whole night while she says "just, no, stop." ( [[Applause]] ). I think we should tell each other that. The theme is perspective. Let's try to ask ourselves what's going on in these men's minds. There is still the scaffolding of a patriarchal model, which we think we have erased from paper and which is why it is more sneaky and dangerous. In fact, that model is still very much alive. We are still in that model because women, when they participate in public and social life, do so through two equally dramatic choices: either they approve of men or they have to make triple or quadruple mortal jumps by dealing with their feelings of guilt and with the difficulty of sharing and reconciling family responsibility with public responsibility. And they do so with great difficulty. We live in a society still full of stereotypes and prejudices. The drama is that this doesn't just happen with the neighbor or the shopkeeper, who, if a woman suffered violence at three o'clock in the middle of the street, will always say that she could have avoided going out at that time with a miniskirt or a tight jeans and that she had a bit of a look for it. That's not what I say. Istat on 25 November last year told us exactly this: more than half of Italians think that a woman has been subjected to violence because she has been looking for it or because she has not avoided it. It is serious, very serious, and that is what we must all be indignant about. The drama, however, is that this - I repeat - does not happen only with the trader under the house or with the neighbor. The tragedy is that, unfortunately, it also happens to operators who deal with these problems. Sometimes it happens in courtrooms, or when you give wrong technical advice, with a social worker or a judge who motivates a killing in a sentence talking about emotional storm, somehow trying to give a general attenuating to a man, surely unconsciously, unintentionally, at least so I imagine and take for granted. Somehow the woman is guilty when she is said to be part of a loving and quiet relationship and then betrayed her partner. So what? I ask all of you: so? You betrayed him, so what? Does that justify a man killing a woman? Why did you betray him? I don't think so. To justify in some way or to find general attenuators in this is a mistake, it is the result of a prejudice and a stereotype that cannot be allowed to pass; you can not in the courtrooms, you can not in the interrogations of police officers judicial, you can not in the story that the media make of it. You can't because if you write in a newspaper that a woman gets killed while in his love relationship everything seemed to be okay, after he suddenly discovered his betrayal, then this means having found an extenuating for him and having blamed her. As far as the role of schools and universities is concerned, we have talked about this many times. In conclusion, I would like to say that today the theme is not about what schools can do but what happens in schools, who should teach our children respect for difference, starting with gender, as well as the ability to understand that two people are different and that difference must be respected as such, and not instead conceived as subordination of one gender to the other just because at some point in the course of history, one sex has proclaimed itself stronger than the other and has decided that it was up to him to the tasks of public life and women to be angels of the hearth. There have been historical hairpin bends, civilizations in which this did not happen, so it is not true that there is a stronger and weaker sex. I believe that women in this historic juncture, in the course of the pandemic, have also demonstrated their extraordinary strength. And then the theme is to try to recognize this strength, in schools, in the family, in educational agencies and in the universities that form the trainers, in which we write the textbooks that are still full of stereotypes. We work for a society that is capable of overcoming stereotypes and prejudices and, above all, able to reaffirm effective equality between men and women, a society that makes respect for the other, and the opposite sex, a foundation not only of our Constitutional Charter but in all respects because between that formal equality mentioned in the Charter and the substantial one that takes place every day in our daily life, unfortunately, the step is still too long and the price ends up paying it to the many women who suffer violence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u102	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank the presidency of the Senate and all those who have helped bring this bill to the House today. I would like to thank the President of our Committee of Inquiry and all its members for having signed the bill on statistics on gender violence unanimously. To date, data do not adequately represent gender violence against women, although stalking, sexual violence and abuse can certainly be considered spy crimes. This is the main objective of the bill that we will vote for. We have always complained about the lack of information systems that could talk to each other, also to protect the children of the victims. This bill requires the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice to introduce, among other things, information on the relationship between the victim and the offender in order to adequately measure this type of violence: a step towards greater protection of women and their children. Other steps must be taken to adapt policies to prevent and combat these dramatic incidents. I take advantage of the presence of Mr Bonetti, who has always participated and supported the activities of the Commission and whom I thank, in order to encourage other issues that the Commission has very much at heart. I am referring, for example, to the implementation of resources for the whole system of prevention and simplification, to the provision of shelters and shelters. The proposed revision in the State-Regions is to rethink the systems of multiple transfers of resources destined to the centers and houses shelter for the timing of the disbursement of the funds very slow. One should think, as President Conte and the Minister promised yesterday during the event we held in the Senate - a three-year leave. Since the last parliamentary term, even in the final report, I have committed myself to a national mapping of shelters and shelters; a report has also been presented by our Committee of Inquiry. An analysis of the territorial governance of financing systems is needed, with particular regard to the distribution of national and regional resources. There are always delays in distribution, but an ActionAid 2020 report showed that, in the three months from March to June 2020 and in the 120% more requests for aid to the centres than in 2019 for the late delivery of funds, many centres were unable to pay salaries to the operators in order to pay for the expenses of gloves, masks, without being able to make swabs. Minister Lamorgese has asked the prefects of the various cities for a sort of B&B as a hostel; the Department for Equal Opportunities has promised to bear those extraordinary expenses, but today the funds have not arrived and, with the second wave of Covid and the various closures, it is possible that many do not make it. I give you a few numbers: the Regions still have 28 percent of the figures agreed in 2015, 33 in 2016, 61 percent of the funds allocated for 2018, 90 percent of the funds allocated for 2019, and I believe and hope that the Minister will shortly sign the decree for 28 million planned for 2020. Another point is particularly close to the heart, a legislative point, namely to create a protocol of requirements for the accreditation of centres and houses of refuge unique throughout the national territory, and to monitor and monitor the work and services that these centres should provide for the protection of women and their children, because we have news of centres that do not do what they perceive the money for. Further legislative intervention, fundamental to the procedure, is the regulation of custody of children. We know that the courts do not speak, so often the court of minors gives joint custody to a couple where the wife has requested separation and there is a complaint against the husband or father of the children. This is not good; we have been asking for it for years. We must implement the weakest points of the code red, which has been a huge achievement. The three days are right as the time of the complaint to arrive at the public prosecutor's table, but the slowness of the process is not right because it is the moment when the woman is most exposed to violence and retaliation. [[Applause.]] In conclusion, we are doing a lot, but not enough. We call for a change of cultural pace, it is true, against violence and against attacks on the Net. It has happened to all of us women to be violently attacked even on the Net by political forces that use it for their hatred. It has also become customary on the part of representatives of the institutions to use raw and violent language - I think of many talk shows, at times, unfortunately, even in the Chamber - which takes away dignity and which receives consent for its immediacy, projecting its anger against an enemy who "has sought it," exactly as they say of many women: they have sought it, for what they think or what they have said or what they have done; so they say. It is not enough to be against violence; we must be consistent in our behaviours, especially if we have a public role. Education of respect is wanted and must be taught in schools. I still remember the "rose week" established in 2009 by the Berlusconi Government, with ministers Gelmini, Carfagna and Prestigiacomo, to teach children in schools to be against violence. Then she got lost over the years, maybe because it wasn't too good or I don't know. Well, if we expect to train educators, to train professors and university students, we must not give medialy indecorous shows. It is from the communication and use of words that one can begin to speak of respect. It is from each of us, from the daily practice of respect and dignity, that we can all change things. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u105	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, this morning when I woke up I turned on the television and after a few minutes the news of two feminicides was announced: one in the province of Padua and one in the province of Catanzaro; one by a foreigner and one by an Italian. Both partner murders and both in the red zone. This must require reflection, because this shows how far the problem is, unfortunately, cross-cutting. During the lockdown there was a significant drop in complaints compared to the previous year, but they suddenly increased in May-June as soon as we were given the opportunity to leave home. Yes, because unlike the murders, whose victims are men and for which the risk is represented by the public space, for women the risk of suffering violence is within the family. From 2018 Istat data eight out of ten women knew their killer and in more than half of the cases this was the partner or former partner. Only five men (2.4%) were killed by a current partner and none by ex. During this parliamentary term much has been done to try to embank this homicidal drift, with the institution of the antiviolence number 1522 and with the approval of the so-called red code strongly wanted by the League, law that obliges the taking charge and listening of the victim by the magistrate within three days of the denunciation: a great step forward since in 63 percent of the cases of feminicide the executioner is a relapse, that is the victim had already denounced that she had been harassed or abused by the same. Obviously it is not enough since 91 victims of feminicide have been killed since the beginning of the year: one every three days. With this document, the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide wants to structure a method, which only time can tell us whether it is appropriate or not, to understand, however, what are the causes of such malice. The maturity and attention that this Parliament gives to the current violent situation is also reflected in the mediation that it has found in this document, where all political forces have also contributed in highlighting the criticalities of certain questions raised in the questionnaire, questions whose answers could be harmful or misleading interpretations. In this regard, I would like to thank the Senators Valente, De Petris and the majority all for having accepted our agenda to carry out an identical research on the violence perpetrated against men, all for a comparative purpose. It is definitely not a race and no one has ever claimed the opposite. I remind all of us and in the first joke to myself that women have a very important role in the future of our society which is the education of our children, male or female, who must grow by learning respect for the person: man, woman, fat, skinny, tall, low, white, yellow or black. They must teach them that their freedom ends when they invade the space of freedom of others, make them understand that words are dangerous weapons, sometimes lethal. You always have to use them carefully. Unfortunately, this does not always happen and sometimes the slide sees protagonists people who should be an example for society. In this regard, I would remind this House that more than one senator has left us for cancer during this parliamentary term and some colleagues who are currently involved in the work know that they are affected and are fighting this disease. Well, without fear of any denial, I say that the added value produced by these people in the Senate is equal if not greater than that produced by so many others and I limit myself here. [[Applause]] We mothers must make our children understand that weakness is human and cannot be met by violence, whether it be physical or verbal. We must explain that crying, for a male, is not a taboo and, indeed, sometimes, can be an added value. We must make it clear that it is not enough to be endowed with penis and gonads to be a man, but it is when you respect your neighbour. I conclude by saying that the adoption of this measure represents the effective overcoming of radical chic feminism and the success of pragmatism. For this reason, I communicate the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione to the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u108	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bonetti, the President of the Commission, all the members of the Commission and all the Members of Parliament, who today will allow the draft law to be approved. This is a very important measure, a little more than a year after the approval of the law on the code red, strongly wanted by Minister Bonafede and therefore by the Movimento 5 Stars. Today, therefore, we unanimously dismiss a measure considered to be of extreme importance, relating to statistical discipline applied to the intelligence of the phenomenon of gender violence, which will give more knowledge and intervention to the Commission of which I am honoured to be a member. The statistics, in fact, ascended to the dignity of autonomous science for just a century, has always offered a valid cognitive and programmatic support for complex phenomena, as it demonstrated already during the First World War and then in the successive phases of the post-war and just as it is doing in these days, in order to face the pandemic crisis. The collection of numerical data, in fact, will offer an indispensable scientific basis for any intervention, allowing a greater understanding of the phenomenon and a better functioning of the mechanisms of protection for women, already operating in our country. The use of statistical discipline will undoubtedly improve the ability to predict and thus prevent the violent phenomenon, allowing us to act in advance. Certainly this cognitive moment will have to be accompanied by an accurate and extensive information action, through the communication agencies, which will have to renew itself in language and communication style, as we know with pleasure are already making important companies, whose target is the world of childhood. In addition to this, as a parliamentary committee of inquiry, we have set ourselves the objective of intensifying educational interventions in schools, already in the coming years, with adequately trained staff and structural planning, given that violence against women is first and foremost a cultural issue, which crosses across all social classes and which has its roots in the continuing imbalance of power and in the asymmetric vision existing in relations between men and women, often reinforced by the persistence of a reluctant mentality to change. In view of this, the statistical survey has identified itself as a formidable instrument of contrast and above all of scientific understanding of reality, allowing, on the basis of the numerical data, also the emergence of the phenomenon, which largely escapes, because it is consumed inside the domestic walls. The approach to the phenomenon cannot remain linked to emotional reactions, whenever the chronicle presents us a case, generating anger or compassion, accomplice also certain press, that pursues sensationalism, but that remains on the surface and that always risks ending in a revival of those who have already suffered degrading treatments or even of those who have lost their lives. It is time to move on to the attack and intervene in advance, as I said before, and the present bill intends to do just that: a systematic collection of numerical data, followed by a reasoned reading of the same and therefore the preparation of action. We must be timely, since among the many negative effects, resulting from the lockdown, there is also the increase of this phenomenon. The draft law seeks to create a flow of information on gender-related violence appropriate to frequency and content, requiring reporting obligations to all public and private entities participating in the official statistical information included in the National Statistical Programme, which also provides for the implementation of this survey in the annual report to Parliament, transmitted by the President of the Council, on the activity of the National Statistical Institute. It is also expected that this Institute, together with the National Statistical System, will carry out a three-year sample survey entirely dedicated to gender violence against women, with attention to the submerged part. It is also prescribed that all public health structures provide data and reports on violence against women and that, for a series of crimes punctually numbered, an auto-victimal relationship is drawn up, according to a survey to which both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice compete; the latter is obliged to update accordingly the discipline applied by the register of crime news. Furthermore, the draft law provides that the National Institute of Statistics and the National Statistical System shall ensure that surveys of the accredited anti-violence centres and shelters are carried out every two years. In particular, I considered it important to highlight in the statistical elaborations the data relating to psychiatric pathologies of which the offender may be affected. This proposal stems from the need and duty to effectively combat the conduct of abusers and to provide real protection for victims of such crimes. One phenomenon that is unknown is that the same offended people are poorly protected. In the presence of psychiatric pathologies it happens, in fact, that the subject does not show affection and remains to live within the family unit, giving rise to violence. Therefore, once it has been established that the wrongdoer is unable to understand and will, in order to protect the safety of the offended person, an urgent security measure is required. Therefore, only by bringing out real data on such an alarming phenomenon can more instruments be put in place to ensure the recovery of the abuser, protect victims and do adequate prevention. I conclude by saying that the male and female worlds, so close but at the same time so distant, must resume a constructive dialogue based on reciprocity, as happens in many cases of evolved couples. This reciprocity cannot ignore the knowledge of undeniable physiological needs and differences between the two sexes, but that can coexist and harmonize with each other, without any overpower. The relationship between men and women must create life, it must not be mortifying and above all it must not kill. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u109	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves unanimously. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u112	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, on the occasion of the Day against Violence against Women, I too decided to speak in this House in order to focus on an issue that is often implied, namely harassment and sexual violence in the Armed Forces. Equality, understood as the equalization of the different, is a permanent and perennial ideal of men living in society; every overcoming of this or that discrimination is interpreted as a stage of civil progress: today more than ever, these words, spoken by the philosopher Noberto Bobbio, are extremely significant. A renewal of politics and above all of society is achieved with the joint contribution and participation of both women and men. The entry of female personnel into the Armed Forces, including the Carabinieri Armada and the Guardia di Finanza, constituted an event that in the common consciousness was and perhaps is still felt as the conquest by the woman of a new frontier in a society that, unfortunately, is strongly declined to the masculine. It goes back to a year and a half ago the motion of the Movimento 5 Stars, at the first signature of Senator Maiorino (- 1-00134), who engaged the Government to propose norms for updating the military criminal codes in the matter of sexual crimes committed by members of the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] This strong moral exhortation, even before politics, takes on new significance and relevance today, dedicated to the fight against violence against women, with the strong hope that it will determine increasingly effective measures in the fight against sexual abuse even in the military sphere. The entry of the female component into the military structure has not only resulted in the need to adapt military infrastructure, but also imposed a radical change, especially in the mindset. The Minister of Defence has shown himself attentive to the promotion and protection of women's rights, but despite tangible progress, since women entered the Armed Forces, there is no autonomous case of sexual violence or harassment in the military system, as a simple aggravating circumstance is possible when the fact is committed by a military man. For these reasons, it is necessary to strengthen legal instruments to combat harassment and sexual violence through prevention and training, in order to achieve the cohesion and effectiveness of all operational arrangements. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u115	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the reception system in children's communities and, in particular, to the episodes of violence that occur especially during night shifts. Busto Arsizio: an educator was attacked by 4 minors in a community during a night shift. Nuoro: 4 minors, guests of a community for the recovery of minors with particular behavioral inconveniences, were held responsible for kidnapping, extortion, sexual violence, stalking, ill-treatment, injury and damage. Treviglio: a young man is arrested for sexual violence against an educator during the night shift. Bergamo: a young guest of the community one night, after breaking into the door of the educator's bedroom, would sneak into the room while the young woman slept and tried to rape her. Varese: a woman on duty in a community for minors was attacked by 4 users of the facility, boys of fourteen, fifteen, sixteen and seventeen years old. Frosinone: an educator was raped and beaten savagely by three young people who followed as tutor in a family home of Frusinate. These are just a few examples of violence in children's communities, especially during night hours. In many cases the drama or the episode of violence was averted only after the intervention of the colleague who arrived for the next morning. These are only well-known examples of people who have had the courage to denounce, where in many cases they renounce to do so, sometimes - alas - also because discouraged by the same managers of these structures. Today, 25 November, on World Day against Violence against Women, I rise to ask this honourable House to reflect on the need to intervene with technical and contractual rules to protect the figure of the educator, for example by providing in the night a shift in attendance that does not leave these educators alone within the communities and giving greater dignity to the professional activity carried out at the service of the community and young people in particular difficulties. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u116	Two other colleagues who wanted to speak, in particular Senator Carbone on Maradona, and then Senator Astorre, who, in truth, did not specify the subject, were a little late, but the rule is that the request for an intervention at the end of the session must come before the debate ends, otherwise an attempt at emulation could be made on the subject that everyone has put, made of bang and answer. So I would like to thank for their kindness those who would have liked to speak, particularly Senator Carbone, Neapolitan, and who therefore had more title.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u117	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-277.ana.u118	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 26 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: See agenda The sitting is closed at 18.22.
