ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on document LVII, No 3-a, and the attached report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. The rapporteur, Senator Dell'Olio, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u5	Mr President, the Update Note to the Document on Economics and Finance (NADEF) is one of the key instruments of the country's economic and financial programming cycle. Among the main contents of NADEF are, in particular, the updating of the macroeconomic forecasts of public finance, the updating of the policy objectives identified by the Economic and Finance Document, any changes and additions to the DEF, following the recommendations of the European Council on the stability programme and the national reform programme, the objective of net balance to be financed from the state budget and the cash balance of the state sector, the indication of the main areas of intervention of the public finance maneuver for the next three years and the indication of related bills. Furthermore, the report to the Parliament referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012 on the updating of the return plan is attached to NADEF. As far as the macroeconomic framework is concerned, NADEF 2020 reports a downward revision of the estimates of the performance of the Italian economy for the current year, the daughter of the well-known contraction of the economic system due to the pandemic. I will try to limit, as far as possible, the use of numbers and percentages in this speech, remaining on the factual side of the historical framework that attests to this situation. Despite the interventions made by the various governments and the monetary policy measures introduced by the central banks, there was a general blockage of world trade, which increased in the second quarter of 2020 and affected all major advanced economies, including those of the United States and China. If, moreover, we consider that Italy had for some time delegated the productive capacity to these foreign States for the supply, not only of raw materials, but also of finished products (I refer, for example, to all the sanitary garrisons for which we have had scarcity of supplying during the first phase of the lockdown) and the consequent reduction of supply due to a greater internal consumption of these Countries, we can easily realize the negative impact that has been had in our Country. The macroeconomic profile is complicated by the potential increase in oil prices. From a historical minimum of 20 dollars per barrel in the first phase of the pandemic, compared to 60 at the end of February, there are signs of recovery that have brought the price already to 40 dollars per barrel. The risk profile highlighted by NADEF is consistent with the assessments made by the main forward-looking institutions, including the OECD, IMF, Eurostat and the ECB, indicating that it has been drawn up in a prudent and consistent manner with the historical phase we are experiencing, without any possibility of shooting that is extremely optimistic and unrealistic, far from reality. In all this, however, it is correct to report that there has been a general and gradual recovery, starting from the months of May and June, with the restart of the productive activities, but with a uneven trend between the various countries. A particular note on foreign trade. Although in the first two months of the year the level of exports had remained at positive growth rates, the effects of the pandemic also spilled over on exports, especially to non-EU markets, penalising China more than the United States. Trade flows are now picking up, starting in July, and closing the gap that was created in particular towards non-EU markets. However, we are realistic: despite these improvements, the economic activity of 2020 will remain significantly below 2019 levels. Nevertheless, the level of confidence indices assessed by Istat on September 25, 2020 shows a positive dynamic by consumers for the second consecutive month; as well as the confidence climate of companies is growing for the fourth consecutive month, this is a sign that the country is appreciating what has been done by the Government in this delicate and above all absolutely unexpected situation. NADEF presents two scenarios of macroeconomic forecasts, one trend and the other programmatic. With regard to the trend profile, the recovery of the economy is strongly influenced by the trend of demand, which is still affected by the impact of the crisis. This is why NADEF expects real GDP to fall by -9 per cent in 2020, up from -8 per cent foreseen by the DEF, but expects a higher increase in 2021 compared to the DEF (+5.1 per cent compared to +4.6 in the DEF), due to the forecast of the expansionary impact on growth that will be generated by fiscal policy measures introduced in May and August. The new forecast also considers the possibility of controlled management of outbreaks, which will not lead to a lockdown at national level, the arrival of Covid-19 vaccines by the first quarter of 2021 and their distribution on a large scale. With this basic assumption, it is expected that we can return to a pre-crisis GDP in 2023. As is well known, the Parliamentary Budget Office must express itself on NADEF and in this case it did so by a letter of 21 September, in which it validated these forecasts, while stressing the presence of significant downward risks to real GDP growth. The labour market contracted significantly in 2020. The government's intervention, however, with the measures to extend the possibility of recourse to the Integration Fund and the prohibition of dismissal, has led to a steady level of employment, bringing the estimated reduction in total employment to 1.9 percent on an annual basis. It should be noted that this value, referring to the second quarter of 2020 (always on an annual basis), was 3.6%, so the impact of the measures implemented was effective. However, according to the latest Istat data (October 2020) employment growth continues in August, with a much higher percentage among the under 35 years. From the point of view of the macroeconomic policy framework, NADEF takes into account the extraordinary interventions for the support and recovery of the economy that the Government intends to carry out with the PNRR (National Recovery and Resilience Plan), as part of the procedure for access to funds allocated under the Next generation EU programme, with €750 billion in the period 2021-2027. The public finance maneuver for 2021-2023 will aim to support the recovery of the economy, with a further tax boost in 2021, which will be reduced in 2022, and then aim for a significant improvement in the budget balance in 2023. The main objectives of budgetary policy can thus be summarised. Soon, support workers and the productive sectors most affected by the pandemic, as long as it will end the crisis from Covid-19. Then, in line with the public finance objectives, make full use of the resources made available by the Next Generation EU to implement a broad programme of investments and reforms, of scale and depth that will bring the economy on a sustained and balanced path of growth. Strengthening measures to support recovery in the Mezzogiorno and inland areas, to improve territorial cohesion and to prevent the crisis from Covid-19 from accentuating disparities between the different areas of the country. Implement a comprehensive tax reform that improves the fairness, efficiency and transparency of the tax system, also reducing the tax burden on average-low incomes, coordinating it with the introduction of a universal single child allowance. Ensure a qualitative improvement in public finance, shifting resources towards the most appropriate uses to ensure an improvement in the well-being of citizens and the fairness and productivity of the economy, assuming that the crisis is gradually overcome in the next two years. Reduce the net debt of public administration to levels compatible with a continuous and significant reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio. In terms of main areas, the Note provides for the refinancing of the so-called unchanged policies not covered by current legislation (e.g. peace missions, refinancing of some investment funds, corporate crisis fund); the completion of the financing of the cut in the tax wedge on employees (so-called 100 euro); the financing of the contribution cut to the South, already introduced by the August Decree-Law, limited to the second half of 2020; the introduction of a broad tax reform, which the Government will implement on the basis of a delegated law, an integral part of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) and its intermediate objectives. The reform will be linked to the introduction of the single universal child allowance. The full use of the next generation EU grants and loans is also expected to increase public investment and increase resources for research, training, digitisation and conversion of the economy in the key of environmental sustainability. The new programme objective of 2021 is therefore higher than the level of net debt authorised by Parliament with the approval of the last report of 22 July. The forecast scenario of NADEF takes into account not only the so-called Italian care decree-laws and liquidity adopted in March and April and already considered by the DEF, but also the impact of Decree-Law no. 34 and 104 of 2020, adopted after that policy document. NADEF 2020 shall also update the public finance policy framework for the period 2021-2023, in particular for the path towards the medium-term objective. In fact, Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 provides that any temporal deviations from the structural balance and the programmatic objective are permitted in the event of exceptional events and subject to permission approved by Parliament by an absolute majority of the members, while indicating the return plan with respect to the medium-term objective. Paragraph 5 also states that the return plan can be updated to the occurrence of additional exceptional events, or if, in relation to the evolution of the economic cycle, the Government intends to make changes to it. It is recalled that the European Commission has decided to apply the so-called general escape clause for the current year to provide Member States with the necessary room for manoeuvre within its budget to support the health expenditure needed to deal with the epidemic emergency and measures to counter the recessionary effects on the European economy of the spread of Covid-19. This allows States to temporarily deviate from the adjustment path, but does not suspend the application of the Stability and Growth Pact or the procedures of the European Semester on fiscal surveillance. Net debt targets are therefore set at -7 percent in 2021, -4.7% in 2022 and -3 percent in 2023. For the following years, a further significant improvement in the budget balance is expected to ensure a reduction in the ratio of government debt to GDP in all years of the forecast. As for public debt, the Government's preliminary estimate for 2020 provides for a debt-to-GDP ratio of 158 percent (the DEF estimated it at 151.8%) in the trend scenario and 155.7% in the inclusive scenario of new policies. As already foreshadowed by the Government in the DEF, for the year 2019 the debt rule is not respected in any of the three configurations defined by the Stability and Growth Pact; on the basis of the forecasts, the Government argues that the rule will not respect it even for 2020 due to the economic crisis following the pandemic. The planned debt-to-GDP ratio of 2020 will be approximately 30 percentage points higher than the threshold of the retrospective criterion, 12.3 points higher than the threshold of the forward-looking criterion and 15 points higher than the threshold determined by the cyclically-adjusted debt criterion. NADEF therefore confirms the already advanced approach in the DEF, aimed at reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio towards the average of the euro area countries over the next decade, through a strategy based on the achievement of primary budgetary surpluses in a context of relaunching public and private investments, also obtained with the resources of the European Next generation EU instrument, whose effects are not, however, for prudential reasons, incorporated in the estimates of public finances.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u6	The minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrero, forgoes to speak. I recall that, pursuant to Article 6 (3) and (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan towards the medium-term objective is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of direction: the first, relating to the report referred to in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, in order to assess properly the Update Note to the DEF now more than ever, one cannot ignore the context, both general and political, in which we are living. At the general level, it is quite clear that next year - and perhaps also the following - will be characterized by the development of the coronavirus pandemic both at world and national level, with all the health, social and economic consequences that this implies. From a political point of view, it is clear in Italy that the pandemic has also become an alibi with which the Executive, in order to cope with its own political weakness, has self-legitimacy and self-legitimacy to legislate by means of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, decrees-laws and circulars. The Update Note to the DEF under discussion gives us some optimism for GDP growth as early as next year; optimism that Minister Gualtieri has publicly expressed on several occasions. The Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, if it endorses with criticality the rebound of 2021, does not approve however the forecasts for the next biennium. Moreover, according to the OECD, there is still considerable uncertainty about the outlook for global recovery linked to the development of the pandemic, so that a rise in the virus or more stringent containment measures could lead to a reduction in global GDP growth, with higher unemployment and a longer period of weak investment. NADEF takes into account the development of the pandemic, but also takes into account the possibility of having a vaccine available already in spring, which we all hope but which is not at all obvious. The policies and reforms that the government is implementing are linked to this framework. The extension of the state of emergency, the restrictive measures adopted by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, but also all the innumerable announcements that psychologically affect entrepreneurs and consumers have a negative impact on economic developments and call into question the government's forecasts. What emerges from the NADEF is that the Commission, pending the European funds that are not known when they will come and in the face of the decision not to enter the ESM, urgently needs to find resources to be able to continue its policies substantially welfare. What is it based on? Only and exclusively on the recovery of tax evasion. Already there are 9 million debitory folders, 90 percent of which - it has already been remembered - under 5,000 euros. But does everything seem submerged to you? It is possible that one can only hear of the recovery of the escape, identifying it exclusively with the submerged one, and that one never feels - I repeat, never - that the Government imposes on the public administration to pay its commercial debts to the enterprises [[Applause]] , estimated at around €53 billion at present? The paradox comes to a climax when it is read in NADEF that a fund will be set up where the proceeds recovered from the evasion, the greater revenues for the least decontribution, the taxes of the plastic industry and the effects of the compliance of the taxpayer will flow. Tax reform will be financed with this fund. Of the series: definitely pay more now to maybe pay less then. That's absurd. Let us also consider that the amount of evasion, estimated at more than 110 billion, is at least equal - and some estimated well below - to the cost of bureaucracy. But the Government also makes no mention of any really significant intervention of deburocratization in the measure under discussion. The costs of bad bureaucracy and the lack of public administration payments cost companies - we must remember this -, according to an estimate by the CGIA of Mestre, about 100 billion per year. [[Applause]] To confirm what has been said, one of the many reforms expected and announced by both President Count and Minister Gualtieri, the tax reform, is proposed as a delegated law, but we all know the biblical times of this provision and the legislative decrees it implies; other than ready shortly: it will take years. It is clear that intervening on the revision of the tax system, on the simplification and on the reduction of taxes that affect 48.2% is not exactly in the priorities of this Government. For companies nothing is done, and we remember that the reduction in the tax wedge is only for employees. The accountants have complained - just these days - that, exactly a year ago, together with Confindustria, they had presented to the legislator and financial administration a comprehensive document with proposals for tax simplification and reform of the country's tax system. And then what? No feedback on this. Therefore, the Government not only does not listen to the opposition, but not even those who, in this country, by virtue of their own activity, become the bearer of widespread interests. [[Applause.]] The same professionals had to threaten a strike in order to move the deadline for paying taxes for the purposes of IRPEF and IRES, and they had to settle for the extension only for the subjects ISA and the flat-rate, in a moment of mad crisis in which the Government forced the companies to close, because the lockdown - we must remember - was an imposition of the Government. The Government itself has not only blocked the payment of taxes, but has not even postponed the deadline. Well, Italians don't need this; they need reforms that can no longer be postponed, such as justice, tax justice, the digitisation of public administration, simplification, because the cost of bureaucracy, as I said, is too high. Simply postpone important reforms that serve the enterprise and generate jobs. Now the Social Security Fund and the blockage of redundancies have given relief to millions of workers, but they have not solved the problem; they have only moved it. The SURE funds will be able to give a little more oxygen, but, I repeat, the problem must be solved at the root. And you don't think it's enough to build just a few infrastructure to start a country. This is well said by the President of Société générale, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, when he warns that investments, if not supported by real reforms, will remain sterile works. In this case too, we would not want the measures related to the budget provided for in the document to remain dead letter, with hundreds and hundreds of implementing decrees that run counter to the Ministries; but, beware, that by means of dream books these do not turn into nightmares for the country, because, sooner or later, the Italians will wake up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u8	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u9	Mr President, Vice-Minister Misiani, ladies and gentlemen, NADEF, with the deviation we are about to vote on, is a fairly organic strategy. Some economists call it plausible; I like to define it more coherent, because it gives a good vision of a mix of perspective (also very balanced) and prudence, because the estimates made in several points underestimate the positive effects both of revenue and of the positive effects on tax bases, therefore in terms of GDP, of all the expansive maneuvers that, also thanks to the Next generation EU, we are preparing to include in our national budgetary context. It is clear that NADEF is trying to focus on the positive, expansive phase of future policies; it is very much talking about the policies that we are preparing to introduce thanks to the European stimulus, so the great European and national transitions that we expect, and also the great national and territorial cohesion plan that we want to tackle coherently and forcefully. Not least, of course, digital transition and innovation, green. All this is done within a coherent and credible economic framework. As far as the macroeconomic framework is concerned, it is clear that GDP has a very strong decline, because - 9% is a value that can also be frightening. However, it is a less negative GDP than the forecasts of a few months ago, it continues to be slightly positive than the international forecasts. Yesterday we saw the International Monetary Fund predicting a fall in GDP for Italy of -10.5% and it is therefore up to us to prove that we are right. I believe that our economists of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and of the Bank of Italy, knowing better the national economic structure, will also be right compared to the forecasts. It is clear that a lot of macroeconomic data depends on the pandemic: we are managing it better than others, but it is clear that, if science is right and therefore in the first months of 2021 there will be a vaccine and we will return to the normality that we have always known, our economic policy data will also be better, compared to those contained in the Update Note to the DEF. Otherwise, we will of course have further adjustments and further assessments to make. On the other hand, as regards the path of public finance and therefore our budgetary policy, it is affected not only by the maneuvers that have been made, but by the whole picture. The programmatic deficit, which was 1.6% of GDP in 2019, worsens to 10.8% in 2020, but with a fairly credible path back to a normal phase. We will have to wait for 2023 to have a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 3% and then 2025, to return to pre-crisis levels. The gradual absorption of the deficit is also confirmed by the report on the deviation, which we shall be voting on. In this regard, I would like to make an appeal, particularly to those who, at European level, have shared this approach of economic policy and who support the von der Leyen Presidency and belong to the European People's Party. The People's Party at European level has in fact shared these strategies, which belong to the deviation, which we are preparing to vote on today. With regard to interest expenditure, continuing to talk about the path of public finance, it benefits from all expansionary monetary policies. The primary surplus, however, after a long series of positive primary surpluses, marks a sharp primary deficit of 7% of GDP, consistent with the deficit trend. We have seen negative primary deficits in all major crises from 1975 to 1991, until 2009, but this cannot fail to commit ourselves to the return to a balance, which we expect only towards 2023. The debt-to-GDP ratio increases by 23 points in 2020 to support expansive policies. The public debt remains sustainable: all the forecasters and all the evaluators have confirmed it. The most important thing in this NADEF, however, is not only the analysis of the data, which however says a lot about how much we are living, but it is the perspective, which we read in the deviation and in what we then want to do, in the next budget law, with this further deviation. Compared to the medium-term objective, the deficit shifted from its path by 8.6 percentage points. For each percentage point of GDP, the deficit increased by 0.9 points. So we're talking about a situation to keep under control. This has been possible thanks to all the work that the European People's Party has also done in Brussels, with the application of the general escape clause and the partial disapplication of the Stability and Growth Pact. Once again, therefore, I call on colleagues who are part of this political culture to make an assessment of the next vote on the deviation. As far as budgetary policy is concerned, however, it is not simply based on the deviation and not all budgetary manoeuvre, amounting to around EUR 38 billion, will be in deficit, but much of it will be financed from the funds of the Next Generation EU programme; in particular, with regard to 2021, the 10 billion recovery and residence facility and the 4 billion REACT-EU also. With regard to what we read in NADEF, the transposition of the European policies of the Next Generation EU is very prudent: in the first phase there will be a very strong absorption of subsidies, i.e. the grants that we will not have to repay, while from 2024 onwards - then in 2024, in 2025 and in 2026 - it will rebalance with a greater presence of debt and, therefore, the use of European loans that are obviously to be repaid, like all other loans, but at particularly low rates. This is also reflected in the data on gross needs to be financed; whereas now the requirements are mostly met with market financing, from 2022-2023 onwards our public debt will be largely financed by the European institutions, and at least for a share of 43%, if the assessments and data are correct. So, from this point of view too, we will then have a stimulus to rebalance as soon as possible. On the other hand, as far as budgetary manoeuvre is concerned, it is the real test for the Italian restart. A very interesting process is under way: nearly 38 billion, including 24 billion in debt (13 of national debt and 11 of European debt) and 14 billion in European grants (RRF and REACT-EU). I like to think that the new maneuver will be, in a certain sense, cross-eyed: capable of looking at the short term, in order to support the sectors that still have to be helped and at the same time, however, capable of looking, with great optimism, at the future, making the best use of all the stimuli that we have proposed to have together with our fellow European States. I also like to think, contrary to what we read in the press agencies, that this moment must not be dramatized. Unfortunately, we have been living with a virus for almost a year and I think we will have to arrive at a state of new normal, as Governor Visco has also called it. It is very important and in my opinion the budget law will have to carry a lot of new normal. I am referring - for example - to some specific issues: smart working, as it is, is a home working and will not lead to the stimulus that we expect. Also on the issue of personal protective equipment, we need to invest more, to allow companies and service providers to continue to work safely. Getting used to the new normal, but continuing to work, to relate in a new way. This budget law - in my opinion - will have to look beyond and help the Italians to move into the new balance and the new reality in which we will have to live. It is a great challenge that we face, not without objective difficulties and a very unstable picture, but I am sure that with great motivation and great sense of reality Italy will be able to overcome this moment well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u10	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u11	Mr President, first of all, I think it is appropriate to make it clear, because in these hours in the Commissions and also in interpersonal relations - we heard it yesterday in this House in the words of the majority and the President Conte - we have been repeatedly called for cooperation and a sense of responsibility. Well, since we are not used to being unfairly accused, I would like to make it clear that appealing for responsibility in this context, in the way you have operated, is a bit like, Mr President and dear Deputy Minister Misiani, inviting us to build a house together the day before the inauguration. You, a few minutes after the adoption of the Update Note to the DEF in the Chamber, would demand a sense of responsibility from the opposition. While using my esteem for each of you, I believe that we are really close to ridicule or mockery. If the majority really intends to cooperate with the opposition, do not tell us any more one minute after the adoption of a measure in the Assembly, but let us tell it with the due times, so that we can really build a path together in the interest of the country. That said and clarified - I hope - I feel obliged to thank the technicians of the Ministry of Economics and Finance for the assembly work that, as always, have done in a masterful way; less I feel like thanking, instead, the majority and the Government for the contents that mark the Update Note to the document of economy and finance under consideration. If I had to make a comment on NADEF, I could borrow it from an illustrious economist and already a member of the Olive tree, Professor Nicola Rossi, who, without half words, said in recent days: This is a Nadef that is straightforwardly pre-electoral. Basically, it says what we have been saying for months: all the measures you are taking are, at best, analgesics, which do not really care about the fate of the country. I am quoting, however, not exponents of my political culture, but intellectually correct sincere exponents of your political side. With Professor Nicola Rossi I believe I mention, in fact, a person who has the competence alongside the political vision. To understand that it is a pre-electoral NADEF just look at the numbers: when do you expect the fiscal consolidation? This is expected from the end of the parliamentary term or, better, from the year following the end of the parliamentary term. So, throw the problem into the hands of those who are to rule after you. You are simply working to create consensus measures and I am right, therefore, to fear that the use of European funds - and then I will focus on this - will follow the same electoral logic and in the short term, with the difference that, if short-term politics in the past has led the country to the present conditions, the use of a short-term logic with extraordinary resources - as will be the 200 billion euros foreseen in the context of European aid or debt - could certainly lead the country to the definitive massacre. There is no absolute discontinuity in the reading of NADEF between the present and the future. At an exceptional time such as the present one, a clear discontinuity was necessary; a discontinuity in the numbers and a discontinuity of the projects. If you don't turn the country into an exceptional moment like this, when do you want to do it? Alongside the issue of the consolidation of the public accounts that characterize this manoeuvre in the electoral sense, the sources are also of concern. The sources on which a large part of NADEF's accounting approach is based derive from the recovery fund. Every day, even today, we read in the newspapers that, in fact, there is still so much at risk at the European Council scheduled for the next two days. We have heard the words of the Polish Premier and we have seen that there is still no sharing. Here is another aspect that makes - as a colleague of Forza Italia said - the dancers' sources within the Update Note to the Document of Economics and Finance. What, on the contrary, should the Economic Programming Document have foreseen in terms of content and strategy? As the same majority had leaked in the moments prior to the publication of the Update Note, it should have been based on tax reform. We've been talking about tax reform for months now. I believe that we must also think about this. We can see that the entire specialized press - and certainly not the propaganda newspapers of one part or the other, - but, for example, the same "Il Sole 24 Ore" - clearly characterizes that in NADEF, beyond empty words, there is nothing that reflects tax reform, as there is nothing - and we saw it yesterday - in the Recovery and Resilience Plan for the use of European funds. There is nothing but a few brief references to concepts that depress the world of enterprise. I repeat, in fact, that the Resilience Plan refers only to the tax wedge on employees. For this majority, the recovery of the country, the recovery of investments and the growth of GDP will only take place with the reduction of the fiscal wedge, which is also consistent with the political ideology of this majority. When I read what Minister Gualtieri said today in the newspaper "Italy Today" about the fact that the fundamental prospect is to reduce the tax burden on low incomes, I would like to remind Minister Gualtieri that one in four Italians does not pay taxes and that 41 percent of the reporting agents pay more than 90 percent of the IRPEF. In essence, I would like to say that, from the combination of the EUR 80 and then of the EUR 100, the taxes paid by those who reach the threshold of EUR 40,000 are practically zero today. Therefore, beyond populism and demagogy, we must say something else and, that is, that the recovery of the country and the use of the tax lever will be done in a completely different direction, that is, in the direction of the enterprise and the companies. We must bring capital back to companies; we must make it convenient for foreigners to invest in our country, but also for the Italians themselves and, therefore, we must encourage the company with the tax lever. We have to bring back wealth. What a populist measure! I am sorry to have to report to my colleague Monti who from 2011 to 2013 simply wanted to give to the country equity measures, taxes on yachts and taxes on superbs following the logic of the type: we must punish the rich because so we wash our conscience. We must make the country attractive for wealth; we must make the country a point of reference for companies. Of all this in the words of Gualtieri and NADEF there is nothing at all, in the perfect and coherent logic, moreover, of the Italian left. President, I conclude by referring to the revision of public expenditure and the restructuring of public administration, which we all refer to as one of the cornerstones of the country's recovery. So why is there nothing in NADEF and the social costs of public administration restructuring not reported? You cannot afford it and because you look only at the next political elections, with which you will already know that the Italians will give you a severe evaluation and you will certainly look for the least hard impact possible. I shall end with the issue of credit. In the last legislature to save the banks you have destroyed the credit, the credit of the territory, the popular banks, the rural coffers and today all, even the presidents of that central bank that you have provided to build, they say that you cannot go on like this, that they are no longer able to make credit to the SMEs. In the territories the doors are closing and the Union of Mountain Municipalities is crying out for grief in this direction. What do you do and what do you expect for the counter-reform of credit and to breathe back into the credit of our banks? Do not expect anything, and so today we find a banking system whose main activity is investment and insurance activities and not credit to the company that has to restart GDP. President, this NADEF, beyond the fine words, is exactly consistent with what your Ulivo economist and MP, Professor Rossi, has said: it is a pre-election NADEF that - like all the Covid decrees - will unfortunately do nothing good for our country. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u14	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that listening to them for ten hours is not easy. Besides, they could save their voices so they wouldn't end up like me without a voice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to make a few comments on NADEF, which is the subject of our debate, and I would like to start with a reference which I do not often make; a reference to sharing what Senator De Bertoldi said. In particular, he said that he had the impression - I apologise to his colleague if perhaps the words are not those literally used by him - that at this stage of the Italian economic policy and in the Italian public opinion there is an excessive dependence on something that is taken for granted - the recovery fund and its immense financial blessings - when the path of that European economic political construction is still quite rough. Instead, I would like to politely reject to my fellow sender what with remarkable superficiality he said in relation to the manoeuvres of 2011-2012, which may or may not be shared; there may have been components also aimed at convincing the public opinion that hit itself to the right, to the center and to the left, as unfortunately had to be done in the situation that had been left in inheritance to that Government, to which he asked to come here to remedy you. Dear Senators and also dear Members of the other House, let us not forget that we ourselves have and often give an inadequate image of Parliament. [[Applause.]] Many of you were not here yet, but I remember and assure you, indicating it not as a reason for boasting of a Government or a President of the Council, but as a sign of unusual sense of responsibility on the part of Parliament, which in those few months, at certain times, this Assembly and that of Montecitorio have shown great responsibility, bearing burdens of political unpopularity that have contributed for a whole year to prevent the country from falling into the financial breakdown. [[Applause.]] Some thoughtful Italian politicians say that austerity was ultimately the real cause of the birth of populism. Let me say that this is not the case. Where was populism born? Meanwhile, it is known in the bad conduct of the Italian political class for decades; I share this judgment and have often expressed it in the columns of the newspapers. Moreover - in my opinion - the strength of the vote in 2013 for the Movimento 5 Stars and also, to some extent, for the League, did not come from the fact that Italy had to suffer at that moment, which had caused itself, some measure of strong restriction. No, it came from the fact that the traditional parties, those to whom I am still grateful because they supported the country's rehabilitation burden for a year - and they go from the Democratic Party, to Forza Italia, to Brothers of Italy (because, Senator De Bertoldi, you were not yet born, but you were part of the forces that supported those operations that are now harshly criticized), besides, of course, at the centre - after a year of responsibility, simply because it approaches... [[Senator De Bertoldi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u16	Please, Senator De Bertoldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u17	MONTI (Mixed). I'm sure it was an interesting observation, but unfortunately I didn't hear it, but there will be a way. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u18	Please allow Senator Monti to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u19	MONTI (Mixed). It was - in my opinion - the fact that most parties were afraid of having been responsible for a year, as they were not used to that way of doing politics. It is therefore obvious that, if they went then to the election campaign of February 2013 saying that they really weren't there, that it sucked what had been done for a year, although it had saved the country, it was a gigantic propaganda to populists. I apologise, Mr President, for this delinquency. Turning to the government, but also to the public opinion of our country, I want to say that NADEF contains many positive things, but it does not really give the impression that we should try to give the country at this moment, in which we are for a rethinking of Europe for the disaster of the Covid and for the good management that the Government has done, as far as it has been able, both of Covid, and of politics in Europe, that we are in a situation that we must probably not exchange, for permanent, as it is absolutely exceptional. I see in the political custom, but also in the Italian public opinion the idea that now the times have really changed - and they have changed for the worse because we have more problems - but the fact that our country is unbalanced between the production of resources and the use of resources remains. The fact that we continue, with greater or lesser ease, to put huge burdens on our children and grandchildren remains. That is why it would be necessary, even in the short-term management, to have special rigour. In other words, if you were to ask me what is my greatest hope for the Italian economy in the coming times, I would say the recovery fund; and if you were to ask me what is my main concern, I would say the recovery fund, because it has a psychological effect that comes before and overcomes the Polish, Hungarian and frugal resistances at speed, etc. We have already incorporated it and we already triumph over the fact that we have been able to change a historical page for Europe, whereas Europe, finally, after the efforts of so many governments - Italian, French, Spanish, etc. - has seen in Germany a fundamental point of change thanks to Chancellor Merkel. But Europe, which is based on rules because it is a legal construction and not purely of fantasy and dream (as we would sometimes like), will have to introduce rules on state aid, also because - otherwise - German companies would eat all the others, given the volume of financial availability of the German State. Europe will have to re-introduce - hopefully not in that highly critical and critical form - a Stability Pact. The European Central Bank, like all the central banks in the world, which have passed this stage, which we hope will pass, is already preparing to reconsider that the role of its own and of the central banks in general is not necessarily - as is thought in certain sectors of this House - to finance with unlimited prodigies any deficit of governments. The same reasoning, therefore, will apply to the deviation of the budget, that constitutional law which was passed in 2012, with such a majority in Parliament, more than two thirds, not to give rise to a confirmation referendum and I always remember that he was in particular a member of the League, Mr Giorgetti, who made the most important contribution to the affirmation of that principle of budgetary balance. Well, I will also vote in favour of the deviation, but let us bear in mind that the world has not changed in this respect: it is a situation that we must consider exceptional. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u21	Mr President, Vice-Minister Misiani, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt - President Monti also just represented him - that the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document certifies the sustainability between public finance balances and the macroeconomic framework; it is an important document on all budgetary policies; it determines the economic and financial planning of our country; it creates the conditions for giving a first reading of the budgetary law approach. But I believe that never as at this stage the Update Note has elements of important newness within it, and I also tell Senator De Bertoldi. Maybe we forget that for the first time for many years we have been facing economic and financial planning without the safeguard clauses, which had predetermined significant damage in the approach of the budget law, creating unnecessary distortions and structures for a very important location of resources that were being removed from growth. We are well aware that this Government was born to prevent the increase in VAT and to guarantee a new responsibility for Italy also in the European dynamic. I therefore believe that it is clear to everyone that this Update Note impacts on two different elements. The first is an unprecedented pandemic crisis, which has led to a macro-economic framework that has very high uncertainty; the second pandemic wave has even more uncertain elements than the first one, because it not only makes Europe fibrillation, but also in time makes it necessary to select measures that we have never faced before. The pandemic, therefore, first of all does not deserve an ideological division between majority and opposition, nor does it deserve a debate always oriented to the past, according to which there is a government that limits the individual freedoms of people. Just look up, look at the face of Bergamo, when unfortunately we were forced to take out of that city coffins by military means. They are images that do not allow us meaningless ideological contrasts, and I also say this to the opposition. Let us raise our gaze together, because before us there is the general interest of the country; from the way in which we will emerge from the pandemic will determine the fundamental trait of our country, its ability to respond to very delicate and important fundamental rights (the right to health, to education); we will emerge from it several. There is no room for ideological opposition: we need to understand together how to go through the crisis and how to give a new economic face to our country. We cannot forget, however, that there is an unprecedented opportunity in front of us. President Monti mentioned a very different phase in Europe than the one we are working on. We feel we can say that the Italian Government and this Parliament have made an important contribution to ensuring that Europe's face takes, within a pandemic, a diametrically and inversely proportional approach to a Europe which, with the Stability Pact, asked us to control spending. Today, there is a Europe that invests, including through its own instruments, in relaunching an idea of the future of the European Union. I say, with great precision and will to be clear on this point, that the Democratic Party, precisely in its support for this Government, has the best roots in the new Europeanism. Today is our birthday, our party's 13th birthday. I believe it is clear to everyone that, precisely within the new Europeanism, an idea of a very important future for generations will be founded, which will guide the new reforms, starting with the fiscal one. We must not forget that the slogan of lowering taxes for all is also something that belongs to the past. This pandemic crisis shows us the need for selectivity. We will have to help sectors that will remain profoundly behind, because the dynamics of restart will be different. I'm thinking about tourism, I'm thinking about small businesses, I'm thinking about services. On the other hand, there will be other economic dynamics, beginning with the manufacture, which, on the industrial dimension, will have different growth rates. So, we're gonna have to be selective. Stolen sovereignism, sunk the flat tax, sunk the slogan of the reduction of taxes for all, the intervention that we will have to make in the tax reform will be to reduce taxes at work, and we have done so. If we also make the tax advantage for the Mezzogiorno structural along with the tax wedge, a reduction in tax pressure will already be achieved in 2021. However, we must look at the most important investment for the future. If we want to live in the future, it is urgent today to intervene in the family dimension. I'm thinking about the one check for the son. They are fundamental needs to restart births, to give gender policies that transversality they deserve, to raise the levels of female employment, to change the fundamental characteristics and limits of this country. The structural conditions that have prevented us from growing want them, that is, to remove them through the new European programming. These are the fundamental elements from which we cannot ignore. Again, we will have a new challenge before us, which will no longer be just between North and South and the need to recover the differential, which obviously leads us to have a Mezzogiorno that needs infrastructure investments to reduce distances. That is true, yes, but be careful, because in front of us we have the new internal areas, which represent the new weaknesses of our territorial system. To address the issue of internal areas, which are becoming the new outskirts, after the season of linear cuts and reduced spending we have to do a cutting to the public administration in its entirety. We need to make sense of words. Autonomy doesn't mean "do it yourself." Autonomy means responsibility and relationship between the different territorial systems. If we want to relaunch investment, we need to define optimal areas for contracting stations and we need to decide where we hire: not how and when, but where we hire to relaunch investment. We need new generations within the public administration. We need an expansive challenge, but we need territorial medicine at the heart of the fundamental right to health. If we want to reduce the criticalities of the internal areas, we must invest in the right to health in the territory. We must get used to the need for public health, which is different from territory to territory, at territorial level. If we do not rebuild the social and health districts, with their authority and strength, we will not be able to connect national responsibility for the right to health with the management responsibilities of the regions and the responsibilities of the municipalities and territories. Mr President, the NADEF which we are about to approve today and its deviation call for national responsibility. We are convinced that the policies adopted by this Government have made a first important contribution to characterising a new face of Europe. The way we are going through this pandemic is based not on a rainy distribution, but on a vision to help work, businesses and families build a new process of green economy, digitalization, of the future of our country. If we do this, I believe that we will make a big contribution to future generations and finally introduce new gender policies and new investments in families. And, in order to talk about the future, we inevitably have to raise birth rates, because only by raising birth rates can we build a better future for this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u22	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my solidarity with the Deputy Minister, the Government, all the budgetary offices and the officials of the Ministry, because in seven months we are approving a deviation of EUR 125 billion, which means roughly five or six maneuvers. I would therefore like to welcome the work that has been done so far. Mr President, you know that the Valle Theatre is nearby, where almost a hundred years ago a drama of a great Italian writer was represented for the first time: "Six characters looking for author" by Pirandello. Do you think that at the first performance the audience praised him with a scream from the room: "Manicomy! Manicomy! Well, I've been thinking about how to introduce this speech into the Chamber, seven or eight months after the beginning of the pandemic. I believe that President Monti has said well: and I think that Parliament has behaved dignifiedly. I am also pleased that many of the MPs sitting here today, representing or representing the relative majority of the country, have become aware that it is one thing to stay outside the palace and legitimately pose problems for those who govern and those who are in the palace, and one thing is to sit down and assume responsibility for the government of a country of 60 million inhabitants. It is not a metamorphosis that you have experienced: it is the awareness of how difficult it is to govern and mediate on divergent interests. And so, Mr President, as far as the opposition is concerned, I think that in these seven months the opposition has almost always had a constructive and loyal attitude, placing the interests of the country at the heart of the political debate. We have voted for two deviations, Mr Deputy Minister, with the commitment - partly maintained or maintained for nothing - that the Government would open a serious dialogue, not with an appeal to responsibility, because with responsibility we do not build a country or a political project; with responsibility we can get away with it with a vote. Yet, Mr. Deputy Minister, nothing has come. For the umpteenth time we are forced here to reckon and ask ourselves whether we must play a role in the theatrical comedy in which we live: you bring to us the deviation and we must debate whether it is appropriate to tell the country that they are made of the majority or - as I hope for the culture that represents me, and said well Senator Conzatti - European popularism, if at the center there must be as compass the interests of the country. I think this government has done some smart, wise things and some wrong things. Mr Gualtieri also said this on television, making amends for some negligences that had been pointed out by the opposition, in a polite and low-pitched manner, as the colleague of the 5 Stars asked. Even tones change, and that's important. Yet, there has been no acceptance of our concerns. See that the 400 billion bazooka will not be activated; it is no coincidence that only 20% of the bazooka will be activated on investments. We said that many companies would not succeed if they did not have immediate liquidity; and many are closing. Certainly the collapse of GDP of 9% or 10% is a demonstration of the scale of the tragedy we are experiencing and not just of the capacity or not to respond to the tragedy that unfortunately we are still experiencing. Yet the government has not accepted our concerns. We had talked about money directly to companies and instead had to develop a whole strategy that led to closure or bankruptcy for many companies. On the integration fund I am not one who pretends and hides behind the finger, because we talked about over a billion hours of integration fund over a period of two months, something crazy; 11 million Italians have collected it, so I have no problem saying good in some ways, but we can not limit ourselves and pat ourselves on the shoulder for having given it to 11 million people, fuck if the other million did not have it. I think there is always a lack of that extra piece that maybe we can add to the dynamics of managing this pandemic. We gave suggestions on the integration fund, saying that it was a very complex mechanism, so the various passages would have involved the fact that many families and many workers could not collect it; to date there are 40,000 to 50,000 people still waiting for the so-called April instalment and we cannot pretend that they do not exist. These are important numbers because we are affecting the living flesh of the country. Therefore, when we ask for cooperation we do not mean that we must close a zipper and become all together a single thing, but that at a dramatic moment such as this also the opposition, which represents the majority or minority of the country (who cares), can offer his point of view on the basis of his educational, cultural and valuable baggage. Yet you have not accepted it, although many of the opposition have shown a sense of responsibility not to make the Government survive, because we remain allies of the country and not of the Government; it is said by someone who did not vote for the First Count Government, nor the income of citizenship, nor for the Second Count Government, and who is therefore naked compared to any evil suspicion; I claim in this Chamber the right to ask who governs and has the responsibility of the country not to trenches further. In fact, I don't think that NADEF is just a dream book, but it certainly leaves some question marks. So far, so many of the approved rules, as they say, have not landed because of bureaucratic difficulties. How do you plan to overcome them, especially today that you do not have the majority of the government of the territories? Mr President, I am addressing you as an institutional office to ask if it is not time for this country to sit down for a moment, reason and open a serious table. I do not allow myself to comment on what President Conte did at Villa Pamphili, the parade and so on, because it is right to meet, talk and dialogue. Is it possible to open a dialogue with the trade union and productive representatives of the country and not to open a serious dialogue with the opposition? What kind of reasoning is that? President Monti, I am not one of those who says that what happened in 2012 sucked, it's all his fault, because truth and honesty will always triumph in the long life of politics, so I don't hide. However, Mr President, it must be said that that spirit is not there today. There is not that political culture that allows us to tell two thirds of Parliament that we are sharing a common path at a dramatic time, with the risk that there will be a return of the pandemic, therefore of possible lockdowns, which I do not hope; but of course, they are not among those who believe that you have canceled the freedom of the country, because frankly we need to be serious; it is not that we cancel the freedom to manage and govern a territory, but it is because there is a health emergency that at this moment is prevalent with respect to individual freedoms. I am outside of this controversy and I also feel a little 'a fish out of water, but give at least reason to those who ask you this, because if you do not do it it is obvious that everyone will continue to make a mistake for the country. Here we are in debt for 120 billion future generations, our children, and how do you intend to do so on your own, without the involvement of fathers or mothers sitting on the other side of the House? Make an effort, not only dialectical or communicative, to get out of your enclosures. In different shades, we are asking for this, nothing more, Mr President. I hope that the draft budget law that will come in the next few days will be an opportunity to open a serious table in the interests of the country, not the survival of this Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u25	Mr President, at the beginning of the debate on the update note to the DEF, I would like to stress that it fits in with an overall picture: yesterday we were discussing the guidelines for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; Today, in fact, we have to adjust the shot because the forecasts made were incorrect; and tomorrow we will be discussing the law of European delegation. These are, from different points of view, three fundamental steps ahead of the next budget law. Well, what is clear is that there is the same narrative on the part of the Government and the majority, but without there being a common thread and a coherent and comprehensive project. This is what we have been trying to emphasise for days in the Commission, in the House and on all occasions: the League is doing it as well as the other centre-right forces are doing it. In fact, there are - and then I will emphasize them - contradictions in terms. It would have to be said with an oxymoron that in this report there is a quiet apprehension or, to put it in political terms more suited to social networks, we could say that the hashtag is: "italian stay calm." [[Applause]] That's from the painting. I would like to start from the words of the rapporteur at the beginning of the sitting, because he has pointed out to us - I do not want to do so for the joke - that he would have left out numbers and percentages in order to focus on the factual aspects. This is good, however - let me say this - with a joke you could say that the boundary between providing data and giving numbers - because this is doing the majority in this House - is very thin. What we should say is that we have no certainty today; there are contradictions - and I shall say this shortly - also in the report which has just been read in this House. In summary, let's leave the entity, the times and the costs - because of the costs there will be for the country - of the resources that will be put in place. The Update Note should cover scenarios and perspectives and analyse the measures taken. As far as scenarios are concerned, we must make a real operation; Vice-Minister Misiani did it in part just now in the Budget Committee. The truth is that, regardless of the health emergency and the economic crisis, the Italian situation was already critical and there was already a substantial rejection of the policies initiated by this Government. So much so - said the Deputy Minister - that the objective is not simply to return to the pre-crisis level, but to emerge from a stagnation that has been long twenty years that Italy must defeat and overcome. There is no objection to the objective, but surely the scenario that is drawn is not exactly consistent with this objective. I read from the report. The report already takes note of a worsening compared to the April forecast and says that the economic recovery is smaller than expected by the DEF and leads to a real GDP reduction in 2020 of 9%, compared to an 8 per cent forecast. Now, here I overlook the government's effort to stay below 10% anyway on a psychological issue, a bit like when we find prices at supermarkets at "9,99 euros"; that's what I'm leaving him alone. What is the problem that led to this prediction? The main reason for the downward forecast for 2020 is the more pronounced decline in GDP in the second quarter, resulting from the duration of the partial closure of production activities in Italy and the spread of the epidemic on a global scale higher than expected in April. So, I made the prediction worse. However, there is a cautious optimism in the report as it says that the new forecast also reduces the progress of the fight against the epidemic, the hypothesis of controlled management of outbreaks that will not lead to a lockdown at national level, the arrival of anti-Covid vaccines by the first quarter 2021 and their distribution on a large scale. But this prediction is largely unrealistic. It is yesterday's news of the suspension by some pharmaceutical companies even of the testing on vaccines. To say today that a forecast is almost positive, or less negative, because one takes for granted the arrival of a vaccine in the first quarter and its spread on a large scale is unrealistic. This is one of the scenario conditions that serves a forecast that, in our opinion, remains, unfortunately, alas, overly optimistic. There is another passage on which I would like to dwell. What, in logical terms - almost from Aristotelian sillogism - is the starting point of the Government? We gave stimuli, the stimuli work; we will grow again. Well, these premises at the basis of the reasoning are not consistent, they are not correct. Why? In the meantime, the stimulus we have given, in fact, to the present day, is support interventions, welfare interventions rather than real injections of investments that can review the situation. On the other hand, the fact that they are working is all to be demonstrated. This contradiction is so clear that, even in the report, one thing is said on page 2, and on page 5 another is said or the exact opposite is implied. Will you tell us, then, whether or not you have taken investment at European level into account when referring to the forecast? On page 2, it is said that the financial programming also takes into account the extraordinary interventions for the support and recovery of the economy that the Government intends to agree with the European Commission through the presentation in October of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan scheme in the framework of the procedures for accessing funds allocated to the next generation EU programme, with a budget of 750 billion; on the other hand, it says exactly the opposite, playing on words, basing on that thin thread to which I referred at the beginning, when writing " (...) the effects of which are not, however, for prudential reasons, incorporated in the estimates of public finances". We are talking about the effects of using the resources of the European instrument. A good time, for the average, normal Italian, not for the enlightened economist who spoke before - and we all remember the results he brought in 2011 - is the estimate realistic or not? Do you or do you not take into account the impact that European resources will have and will be used? In the end, the focus of the fundamental forecast will be the deficit-GDP ratio in 2021, because it is clear that in order to regain growth, at a time of stagnation of private demand, we will have to focus on investment and the role of the public, and there would be no more, but what will be the multiplier effect? In summary, for each euro of additional deficits, what will be the expected GDP growth? Will it be less than or greater than 1? Does that 1.3 only take into account national or even European resources, which are in fact outsourcing the cost? Do you really tell us how things are from this point of view? We are not interested in discussing the prediction of the scale of the disaster: I repeat, to stay above or below 10% of the decrease in GDP I do not think it is what interests Italians who have to put together lunch with dinner, who have problems to see a future for their children or, for those who have to pull up the shutter and resist a devastating economic crisis. What interests us - I said - is to work to avoid it, the disaster: exactly what the Government has not done so far and it insists not to go on going on alone, without the slightest involvement of oppositions and of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u27	Mr President, government gentlemen, colleagues, our country, or rather the whole world, has been overwhelmed by the Covid, a pandemic that has broken society, affections, the way of life and thinking, the economy, trade and international mobility. The international macroeconomic scenario, illustrated in the Note, shows that in the first half of 2020 the world economy suffered, because of the Covid, the most profound setback since the Second World War, following the blockade of economic activities. Despite the extraordinary interventions put in place by governments and the monetary policy measures introduced by the central banks, the productive bloc has resulted in a contraction of GDP and world trade, respectively of 3.5% and 2.7% in the first quarter of the year, compared to the previous quarter. This decline increased in the second quarter, with a decline of 5% of GDP and 12.5% of world trade. The fall in GDP has affected all major advanced economies, such as the United States and Japan, GDP has decreased by 8% compared to the first quarter, while in the euro area the contraction has been even greater, around 11.8%. Even more important is the reduction in GDP in the United Kingdom, which is 19.8%. In contrast there is only China, which, having reactivated the economy already in early April, recorded a growth of 3.2 percent, on a trend basis, in the second quarter. A gradual recovery, more sustained than expected, has been recorded since the months of May and June, with the restart of the productive activities, but with a uneven trend between the various countries. For the ECB, real GDP in the euro area will decline by 8% in 2020 and will again grow by 5% in 2021 and by 3.2 percent in 2022. Unfortunately, the real level of GDP could remain 3.5% lower than expected in the December projections. According to the data reported in the Note, the available indicators show a growth in the summer months of the index of industrial production, with an increase of 7.4%, also in the construction sector, with an increase of 3.5%. The question is whether, in the near future, inequalities between North and South, between rich and poor, between those who have access to the digital future and those who do not, as the European Union has shown us for once. The pandemic messed up the cards and put it all back in the game. A few months ago, all the domestic and international forecasts said that we would have a great thunder, but other countries, such as France and Spain, are worse off than we are. The strict rules of control of the virus set by the government and the virtuous behaviour of our citizens are perhaps protecting us from a new lockdown, almost certainly in Spain, France, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Hungary and the Czech Republic, likely in Germany. At the same time, the resources put in place to support the economy and above all to prevent the enlargement of the social scissors, will probably manage not to completely collapse the domestic demand, the main fly for the economic recovery, such as the abolition of the safeguard clauses, the exemption from the payment of the balance IRAP 2019, the first deposit IRAP 2020, the facilitations for energy efficiency interventions, the tax benefits for the acquisition of tourist-receptive services by families with ISEE up to 40,000 euros, the contributory reductions aimed at supporting the employment level, the superbonus. The maneuver provides significant resources for supporting employment and income, completing the financing of the tax wedge, refinancing the contribution to the South, refinancing the so-called unchanged policies, while there are important components of programming, such as the introduction of tax reform. As far as Europe is concerned, we can finally say that the guidelines from Brussels are not in line with the neoliberal religion, and this is also due to the government and the majority. [[Applause]] This is a great success that Italy can boast, as the World Health Organization has also acknowledged, for having fought this pandemic. The "Zattera Italia" was dragged for three decades by the impetuous current of neoliberalism, thanks also to the sails provided by Europe, towards the abyss of self-destruction. The Covid showed us all this and finally opened our eyes. The time has come to go against the current and change the sails. It was Europe that provided us with them: we need to change the paradigm. Yesterday, Mr President, the spread fell to 120, with three-year yields to less than 0.14: a kind of nemesis for the ESM placekeepers, that fetish agitated for mere propaganda purposes that no EU country has requested. [[Applause]] I cordially thank Minister Gualtieri for the wisdom shown after having understood that this totem, evoked as the panacea of all health issues by the "Attila" of the health system, is uneconomic, if not a real disaster for Italy. On the ESM there is no need for a few mouthpieces to deny the economic convenience with the current rates; just a simple bullet, that ancient abacus used for calculations since the 21st century before Christ. We must change the paradigm: finance cannot dictate the agenda to democratic politics and governments. Yesterday in the Budget Committee a document was presented by the Director-General of the Treasury, Dr Rivera, on the genesis of derivatives. Well, there is a table that represents the plastic subalternity of politics and governments to the finance and oligarchy of bankers. From 2011 to 2019, while some countries have earned from derivative contracts (the Netherlands almost 20 billion), Italy, thanks to capestro contracts, paid to business banks 45 billion euros. I repeat: 45 billion euros, with directors general and economic ministers then hired by business banks, from Mario Draghi to Vittorio Grilli and Domenico Siniscalco. Dear colleagues, I believe that requests for joint actions must be collected to face the pandemic of President Schifani and Senator Salvini, provided that the insults, the denigration, the mystification of the government's work, as it happened in the post-war period to write the Constitution, when Nenni, De Gasperi and Togliatti, while not denying their respective ideologies, found a compromise in the Constitution, recalling that those leaders did not resort to insult, but to mutual respect. Now as then, in order to overcome a planetary disaster similar to a world conflict that has affected the economy of the whole world, we have, especially in Italy, the historic opportunity to rewrite the structure of the two Chambers, after 70 percent of the "yes" to the constitutional referendum on the cut of deputies and senators, the parliamentary regulations and the electoral law, which must not be as in the past the prerogative of the majority, but common heritage. In this immoral era of social inequalities, where the pandemic has put into crisis a neoliberal model, in this unequal Italy we must restore confidence, hope and dignity to the citizens, in a future with a human dimension. 12:08 a.m. (Follows LANNUTTI). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President, and thank you. Back in 1982, on a trip to Europe, I was impressed by a phrase of a wanderer, a jumper that I met in Marseille at a theatrical show: Je ne travaille pas pour l'argent, je travaille pour l'amour (translated: I don't work for money, I work for love). Here, in this age of greed [[applause]] Arrivalism, mystification, oppression, destruction of the founding values of a society, in the age of neoliberalism and globalism that have put into the attic the three sacred principles of Enlightenment, the basis of democratic Constitutions, such as freedom, equality and fraternity, with the primacy of equality, because without it there are neither freedom nor fraternity, in the age of the ruthless struggle for the power that generates social hatred, globalization of capital that created the globalization of poverty, we of Movimento 5 Stars work driven by love for Italy and the Italian people, cultivating those values of equality, solidarity and mutual respect. [[Applause]] Let me renew an appeal to democratic oppositions to work together, to pursue the general interests and the common good of Italy, rebuilding from the rubble, like our fathers in the post-war period. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u29	Mr President, I am happy to speak at this point in the debate, because I have been able to listen to wise and authoritative senators, who have also allowed me to direct what I am going to say now. I do not remember whether Emanuele Severino was commemorated in this Chamber when, unfortunately, he was summoned by the Lord; if he were present, he would certainly help me to say what I will try to say. The reality of this planet is made of two consistencies: on the one hand there is nature and I, as a believer, say that nature is all that God has put in us; on the other hand there is civilization, culture or technique and that is all that man adds. We have suffered the revolution of nature. The pandemic, in fact, is a rebellion of nature, which has caused a break in civilization. The legal system, the policy, the legislation must be able to find a solution to the breakdown of civilizations. What determined itself? We have put in place extraordinary measures, also reported in the photograph of the Update Note to the document of economy and finance, but we are faced with another difficulty: if NADEF is a photograph, as the legislation provides, we are in a condition in which photography can no longer contain, to detect reality. There would be a need for some kind of filming for the speed of change. Everything that was shared three months ago risks, after ninety days, not resisting. What are the numbers in this document? We know that some regulatory measures have led to a recovery of liquidity for companies and households; these are extraordinary numbers, never conceivable before. We have determined several times the deviation of the fiscal consistency and we will do it again in this circumstance; we have foreshadowed that the recovery of normality pre Covid-19 about GDP, which is the whole of the goods and services produced by a country, will happen only in 2023. This is what foreshadows show. NADEF is, in fact, a programming effort, but at this stage it is characterized by objective weakness: we do not know how the destructive capacity of this contagion will evolve from Covid-19. I'm a pro-European, which means I'm an anti-confinist. Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that it is the responsibility of Europe to prevent and react against scourges and pandemics. In this debate, I would like to say first and foremost that I want the European Union to make more Europe, so that the problems of the large size of the economy and the major issues of collective health call into question Europe, not the national Member States. There is a path on this front, which has been the protagonist of Italy: the great coverage of the recovery plan is a goal achieved compared to this new idea of Europe, which when there are problems does not call the European Union outside the scope of competition; the Union is called into question to produce flexibility and adequacy of resources. I would like to add one thing, in terms which I hope will be useful for the further debate, because I am always convinced that this is not just a place where we speak, that is, a talking room, but a Parliament, in which the dialectical points of view are made up, in order to place at the top the line of virtue that then produces the norm. In the annex to NADEF we have a number of regulatory objectives. I would also like to mention three of my great interest in the role I have in the Committee on Finance. In the course of the parliamentary exercise that will open in January we will have the expectation of a delegated law concerning tax and tax reform. I would like to say clearly, bearing in mind the words of authoritative intellectuals of the law, that the law of delegation is the only way to deal with the complexity of a tax reform. The alternative is what we have already known as a regulatory product (the decree-law, which almost forces parliamentary work to the wall) or the normality of parliamentary work that does not make it to the heights of the technè that requires a tax and tax reform process. The same is true of the delegation law relating to the reform of tax justice, which many people are asking for from many quarters. Thirdly, I am very interested in what was written in NADEF about the fact that 2021 will be the year in which we will mark a simplification agenda, which is the full-bodied part of the simplification law. We lack 500,000 human resources; we have EUR 130 billion in our belly before the recovery fund. With the resources of the recovery plan we will reach about 300 billion euros to push the wheel of the economy. If there is no administrative function, we will not succeed and it is good then that it is written in the document that we will also deal with the simplification agenda. For these reasons I speak in favour, knowing that Italy has experienced three moments of civilization break. The first was just after the Second World War in the place that also gave rise to the Constituent, which was the dual part that put together all party belongings to give rise to the extraordinary product that was the Constitutional Charter. The second moment was the struggle of the country system with respect to the violent phenomenon of terrorism. Even then there was an extraordinary effort of convergence, taking note of the risk, the rupture and the fear that existed in the country. This is the third time and the third stage. What must happen if there is to be an upward alignment of the political views of all? I expect that, starting with NADEF and the budget that we will also have to set out for 2021, there will be an effort of convergence of all because, to two months of life of this Government, it could never be imagined that a level of rupture of civilizations of planetary dimensions could come. This must lead us to proceed responsibly together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u31	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the update note to the 2020 Economic and Financial Document is also plausible on the basis of current trends, unless the lockdown returns. In companies, when preparing business plans, there are always worst houses. There is the positive prediction, that is that it is expected to go - that is what NADEF is saying: it has said it optimistically, but it says it - and there is the worst case, that is, what happens if the situation keeps up or even worsens. In my opinion, this aspect is missing, precisely because we are in an emerging situation that requires caution, analysis and proper cards to ask for stronger and tougher measures. Having to take over the whole range of possibilities, I believe that an analysis and a rethink on the DEF will certainly be there. The Parliamentary Bureau itself, in fact, draws too optimistic forecasts. The trend data are the ones we know. The real economy is a little different from how we draw it here. There are vital areas and sectors of the country that are ko. Do we want to talk about tourism, catering, services, the whole world of fixed-term work that has disappeared? Let's think about the situations of loans made available to companies, loans, but always debts are, that they do not go to "throw" because it is always about debt. Trust and optimism are lacking. Then, in my opinion, at a time like this, this aspect needed to be considered in the Document at our examination. I am sorry that Mr Monti is not here, but I see Mr Lannotti calling him back. Even yesterday Senator Renzi called us (since the economic situation is such and which), to what happened after the end of the war. The country was ko. The wise fathers, quoted by Senator Lannotti, De Gasperi, Nenni and Togliatti had behind them, dear colleague Lannotti, something that, for example, his MoVimento did not have; they had behind them parties with a tradition, a history and a roots that I do not see today. [[Applause]] We are constantly calling, as the President of the 6th Commission has also done, for cooperation. It requires two subjects: who lends it and who receives it. However, there is no cooperation if it is only requested. [[Applause.]] The opposition, with mantra that continues to repeat, asks to be summoned, to be put to the test to verify whether or not it is reliable and credible. Is it possible that, beyond some of the agendas of which we are well aware of the purely edittal political value, no substantial amendment of ours, in any of the Commissions, has ever been transposed and done in its own right? We wonder. I would like to say to Mr Lannotti, that De Gasperi and Nenni, - I must - to mention their names I should rinse my mouth - spoke, combined and their work then found perfect synthesis in the Constitutional Charter, which is the fruit of all. I wonder if it is possible that from here there is the limit of incompetence, of inability, of intolerance and of everything and from there there there is the wise, the good and the beautiful. No, I reject that categorically. Right now, just because we're in emergency, we need everyone. We need the serious, responsible, reasoned and profound contribution of all. We, as in Forza Italia, are part of the European People's Party. Is it possible that we are not considered in a moment of crisis as serious as what we are experiencing and that none of our contributions will be taken into account? I am sorry that there is not Professor Monti, who recalled his experience as a Government; we also supported that historical phase, but something did not work if the results, in hindsight, are the ones we saw pre-Covid. [[Applause.]] What didn't work? It did not work, in my humble opinion, that the lack of politics, the lack of capital P, which characterized that government, had made it weak; it had made it pleasing in the eyes of the European technocracy, but it was not permeated in the substratum of our nation. [[Applause]] , which is a heterogeneous and complex reality that must consider various interests and various realities. I am now going to make a few comments on the subject. We made a whole series of decrees, which you all remembered. This happened with great announcements; every evening President Conte entertained us with his press conferences, with all the favors of national and local cameras. Today the Messenger reports how many implementing decrees are missing to give voice, substance and concreteness to those norms that remain edittal. Mr. Deputy Minister, I quote two, very trivial. In the various decrees is previewed a fund in the budget of the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports for the road connections, with delegation to the ANAS. Do you know what ANAS answered? He reiterated that the realization of these works was not his responsibility. [[Applause]] Did you catch that, Mr. Deputy Minister? We are talking about the road link funds, which are delegated to ANAS, but which said it was not competent. Let me give you another trivial example. Do you remember that you said that there were funds for local authorities for kindergartens? Well, the fund is established at the Ministry of the Interior, but, to date, there are no implementing measures and, therefore, the competent function of that Ministry refers to the sender, waiting for the implementing decrees. I could quote a lot of other cases, but that's all. What is the point of this list, which has also been mentioned by my colleague, if - then - the implementation of the measures already envisaged is not possible and does not take place? I repeat, there are 380 implementing decrees that are missing. There is a rumor - but we do not have the strength to say so - that one of the major problems of our system is the slowness of public administration. [[Applause]] Therefore, the European Union makes the funds available to us, but we know that we will not be able to translate them into concrete acts. Mr Vice-Minister Misiani, Mr Undersecretary, could we not block tariffs for electricity and gas during this period of recession, in which families are in great difficulty? In October, gas prices increased by 11 percent and electricity prices by 15 percent. In the Update Note there is a clear and clear increase in the tax burden. Are we going to tax Italian citizens again? You have to tell him! [[Applause]] Mr President, as President Casellati, whom I thank, has already done authoritatively, it is necessary for the Presidency to refer to the role of this branch of Parliament in order to be heard in the relevant fora. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u32	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to take up what my colleague, Mr Ferro, has said about timing and timing, because it is a subject that I have dealt with several times and which seems to me to be central. He referred to the 380 implementing decrees that have not yet seen the light and time, in this case, becomes the very effectiveness of the measures. In the urgent decrees adopted, we have provided EUR 100 billion in debt to deal with the emergency in many areas and therefore we must now make an effort. I said "we have to" as an institution, but it is the Government that must give the input and direct this step, so that the machine does a superwork. Otherwise, if the implementing decrees were to arrive late, the bazooka effect would become the shot of a toy gun and our country could not afford it. We are always here, that is the problem: we must act immediately. We talked about this a few days ago: the public administration is being asked to give something more. It is an effort that we all ask. We are asking the families and businesses, who in many cases have anticipated the integration fund to their employees; we are asking the teachers, who find themselves doing their work in a completely changed situation; we are asking the children and the children who are in the schools; we are asking everyone. Can we ask the ministries, too? There are all the intelligences and abilities, they need to do a superwork, because Italy needs it. [[Applause]] We realize, reading this Note of update to the Document of economy and finance, of how much obvious uncertainty reigns, because indeed the picture photographed is this and on this the government and the minister are building the economic maneuver; but we know very well what difficulties can exist in conjunction with a surge of the contagions, but also - if we have talked about it - of catastrophic atmospheric events. Unfortunately, the world has changed, we are all aware of it and we are all ready to do our part. I have been wandered in the Commission, because I have allowed myself to say that, in my opinion, we also need to look at the approach of normal people, those who turn on television. Some, the ones who can stay in the house, keep it on from morning to night. It is not possible to subject people from sunrise to sunset to brainwashing by talk shows and news: it is right that they give the information, but the right ones, and that they say that the contagions increase and that you make a lot more swabs, so the positive cases are many more; but you have to distinguish which positive cases asymptomatic from the symptomatic ones, because the cost of all the measures will depend also on this element. It is right to make recommendations, but one of the epochal challenges before us is to strike a balance. It is not possible to hear 10-12 experts every day, of which one says one thing, one the exact opposite: normal people, who are not graduate in medicine or who do not want to deepen, how can they orient themselves? She's disoriented. She's scared. [[Applause]] If people are afraid, then maybe it happens, as happened to me, to hear a friend say that it seems that in a great publishing company you are thinking of starting to quit. How can these people be? There is anguish of the pandemic, of getting sick and of losing work. Tampons can't last forever. Then, of course, we need awareness, right information and to remove too much: it is a pact that must also be made with the press, which does not mean shutting her mouth, but asking her, as well as on television, to be responsible. This balance is absolutely necessary, because this perception also depends on the behaviour of people and the propensity to consume. Great aid has been given, to some even for survival, to others so that they could not only live with a minimum of tranquillity, but also support domestic demand; but if there is this terror, this affects not only the depression of people, but even the economy, because we know very well that people's expectations are a variable that enters the economy, sometimes even heavily. So let's take this ride. Several Members have spoken today of the willingness to cooperate, but sometimes there is an a priori closing attitude, such as in the August Decree. As an opposition, we have dealt with important proposals through our amendments. Vice-President Misiani, on some of them, said that we did not actually make it here, but we will have to think about it in the budget law. For me, this is similar to a commitment, if not a real commitment, on some categories. We talked about reshoring, trade fairs and all the induced, automotive and many other categories. Therefore, we will also have to find room for these sectors. There must, however, be the will to speak and we must not confine ourselves to the moment of the House or the press conference, where we are told that we are ready to accept the opposition's suggestions and that we must have dialogue: this happens if we talk and listen to each other. Yesterday Matteo Salvini repeated this. We are, with responsibility, as always. We have shown this, despite the sometimes schizophrenic development of the works, but there must also be your availability. Otherwise, it's a little comedy, where everyone plays their part, but then things don't change. We are bearers of voices of territories and problems perhaps more than others, so this comparison must be there. But it is up to you to make this transition an important moment for this institution. Otherwise, we will always be the B-series Parliament, unlike what was thought of by the constituent Fathers. Yes, the measures must pass from here, but, all things considered, let's do quickly, with one reading, and let's cut this and that one. No! The moment is so serious that this union of intent is necessary, not just for the short term. Now we are thinking of taking steps all together to stem a possible second wave, but at the same time, we must all be so far-sighted as to think about what the next country will be. In other words, we must allow, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises, since our fabric is made by these people, to be so resilient that we can start again, as soon as possible, with almost normality, because this can be done. There are companies, lucky for them, so smart, so forward and so structured that they are still overcoming the crisis, because they have invested in green and digitalization. So many, though, are still behind. We cannot just look at the present, forgetting the long-term objective; we must plan that, for school, for building, for the work of young people and for all these fundamental categories. If, after the pandemic is over, we're just disoriented, then it's really the end. I hope the pandemic passes soon. Allow me, here, to make this personal note, as a person who has lived in the family diseases, even a death and experience of patients who did not negativity, even though they did not experience the same drama of the areas of Bergamo, Cremona and the areas most affected. I hope that there is a lot of responsibility on everyone's part and that he will never feel, anywhere else, irritating those who are worse or in the emergency, because it was a shameful thing. [[Applause]] I've never wished evil on anyone. I hope that everyone can heal and that, with the help of all, we can improve. Lombardy - the hated one, the loathed Lombardy - has given the availability to make use of the hospital Fiera Milano also to other Regions. I think this is the right attitude, of those who overcome evil and meanness and think about the good of Italian people, of whatever part they are. Let us take an example from Lombardy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u34	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u35	Mr President, this morning in the Health Commission, which I have the honour to chair, an opposition colleague reminded all of us, including Nadef, that no one would ever have imagined that they were afraid of each other and that they would have dinner with friends or talk with the mask. We are therefore living in an exceptional time. Exceptional in NADEF is also the prospect of falling GDP to 9 percent. An exceptional time requires cooperation, of course, but it must start with responsibility, which must be shaken. I am addressing the opposition in particular: where can responsibility be better than in a 2014 Economy and Finance Document Update Note in an exceptional time? Many of our constituent Fathers have been mentioned: De Gasperi, Togliatti, Nenni; but also great women, great mothers of ours: Tina Anselmi, Nilde Iotti, Giglia Tedesco. [[Applause]] These great men and these great women were not born Togliatti, Nenni, De Gasperi, Iotti, Anselmi and German, but they became it for their responsibility to act. [[Applause]] Let's get out of this health and economic crisis only all together (because I think deeply that we get out of it). The safety of the National Health System is crucial for economic and employment development. In this exceptional phase, here is the question straight away. In this regard, Italy, as mentioned in NADEF, must take into account Recommendation No 1 of the Council of the European Union of 20 July 2020: strengthening the capacity and resilience of the Health System with regard to operators, essential medical products and infrastructure. Our country must fill, yes, the lack of public investment in care; the recruitment of health workers, in relation to the occupational projection in this sector, must overcome the training funnel of medical specialists. The terrible epidemic - we say this, but we must also do this - must be an opportunity for us. NADEF prepares the budget law. Surely we must put resources in place to implement the provisions of Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015, in order not to subtract assistance to our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens, especially in some areas of the country (I am thinking of the South). The day before yesterday I received a delegation of mayors from the Cosenza hinterland, who represented their cry of sorrow (they expressed themselves with these words) for fear of the lack of assistance to their fellow citizens. We must overturn health policies, putting primary prevention, local medicine, digitisation and home services first. We must give maximum development to the protection of health and safety at work; NADEF recalls the bill linked to the budget law on this issue. We must have a general public transport plan: this government will have to do it very well in the budget law, because we know that many contagions occur during transport. Today I was reading for example the data of the non-infected in a country like Japan, which is already used to managing public transport, because it has suffered other pandemics; so Japanese citizens are already used to it. An environmental reclamation plan which is closely linked to health and development is needed. Then there's the research. As Senator Cattaneo in the Chamber said very well yesterday, a country that does not invest in research has no future; this in the budget law we must face in a very strong way. We will also have to think of forms of State participation as a partner guarantor for those realities that develop new technologies, cures and vaccines. We need an employment plan, which must start with an industrial plan to strengthen certain sectors; I am convinced that we will have more jobs in some sectors, such as pharmaceuticals, research, sanitization companies, digital. We therefore need an employment policy that is closely linked to an industrial investment in these sectors. Senator Conzatti said this morning to go beyond NADEF and the budget law; Senator Renzi said yesterday that we will face this difficulty, especially employment, which will affect the work of our young people, if we have a perspective. The resources that will come, of course our financial documents will take into account, cannot be the sum of projects, but they must have and build a perspective, even of life. Those of us who have had a problem or discomfort in our existential life know that only by building a perspective can we emerge from a condition of existential difficulty. Hoping that NADEF and the budget law will have this perspective, I appeal to the Government and to my colleagues in the majority to say that we will have to have a more welcoming attitude towards the demands of the opposition, so we will all emerge together from this crisis that concerns our humanity, because we form in relation to each other. If this epidemic crisis puts the very substance of humanity in difficulty, this exceptional time requires exceptional collaboration and responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u37	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, NADEF cites the measure of the universal single child allowance as part of one of the most complex interventions, namely tax reform. I do not go into the general planning of the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document, but I focus on the long-awaited measure of the universal child allowance. Let's take a step back to contextualize the whole thing. On 20 July last, the delegation law and the provision, transmitted to the Senate, was approved unanimously in the Chamber, will be discussed in 11th Commission. The bill of delegation on the single and universal allowance for dependent children from zero to twenty-one years is part of the family act, approved last June. Brothers of Italy also voted in favour of the Chamber on the measure of the single cheque. He did this to support families and promote birth, as we have always done with our legislative proposals and with all our amendments to every government bill and draft budget law. I must also reiterate that we would have preferred an immediate operational rule and not the uncertain and long times of a bill of delegation. In addition, the criticality of the long term does not only concern the size of the cheque, but the whole package of the family act, because, in order to exercise the delegation, the Executive took almost two years of time and so at the moment everything appears to us - I say it with fear - as an empty box. I would also like to introduce another technical consideration. We are witnessing an abuse of the decree-laws; there is an excessive appeal, I would say compulsive, but unfortunately also the appeals, as in this case, to the draft laws of delegation, with which the Chambers delegate the Government to legislate in certain matters. In short, it is a tool that shifts the centre of gravity of legislative production from Parliament to the Commission: a wave of draft delegation laws with which the Government first mortgaged legislative activity, relegating Parliament to an increasingly marginal role, and then plays it in part. These are not my words, but a note appeared on the Corriere della Sera on October 8th in an interesting commentary signed by Enrico Marro. The same article states that in NADEF 22 draft laws are announced related to the next budget maneuver. In addition, I stress and add that even a year ago NADEF listed 22 related proxy bills, but not all were submitted. In fact, at least seven delegations from the current list come from last year's list and among those that have not been completed and remained on paper there is precisely the crucial one of the tax reform, which is coordinated with the introduction of the universal cheque. Let's go back to that fear of the empty box I referred to at the beginning. At the moment, Minister, there is no provision for economic cover on the measure and the information on the minimum guaranteed amount per month for each child is vague. It is therefore necessary to identify the necessary resources in the next budget law, in the light of the implementing decrees as well as - as I said - the fact that the measure is accompanied by the time of tax reform. Question: What is the roadmap that the Commission has identified for moving from words to deeds and for the single cheque to become a reality and to reach families materially? In short, the eternal theme: when and how much. That's the point. I regret to point this out, but this measure was expected for 1 January 2021. Well, it will not be so: perhaps it will come from the middle of next year? We need to know real time and figures. As I said, it is a very long-awaited measure from a country, Italy, that in the statistics of expectation of fertility would want to make children, but then renounces to make them, and not out of hedonism or selfishness, but because they are an economic cost, which I would say is becoming social and existential. I believe that it is necessary to focus on this issue, considering that Istat reminded us that in 2019 we reached the negative record from the demographic point of view, with a decrease of 4.5% compared to 2018: the full demographic winter, if not a real emergency (we have reached the historical minimum of births since the times of the unity of Italy). Another critical point, which is the task of tax reform, is not to discriminate against those who today will receive nothing in the next cheque. Above all, the need for an additional allocation of 6 billion has been calculated. That's the point: where will they get them? Some evil people say that the government will have to choose whether to give them to the South by cutting the tax wedge (which must be confirmed by the European Union) or to families to have children. I hope that the government will not have to make this choice. Mr President, the point is vision. Even in the recovery fund are social and family policies central or are they cinderentole? Brothers of Italy has asked that they be central and that there be special attention within the more than 200 billion that Italy will have to spend for resilience and restart. Finally, are the will and determination of the Commission there or not to invest in families and births, to reverse the demographic route and that negative record, in short, to really support them? I conclude, without controversy, on this subject: there is a fear that the funds for this measure of the single cheque will not arrive and there will be no additional 6 billion. The fear - which for us is, indeed, a conviction - is that you have not understood that we need a plan to save the family and the birth; you will not understand it, if you do not have a vision of the system, with organic policies to support the family and the birth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Nannicini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u39	Mr President, the Amending Note to the Economic and Financial Document we are about to vote on presents us with a fiscal policy framework that maintains - and could not be otherwise - highly expansionary. This is first and foremost with a further deviation from the return to the medium-term objective; a deviation which - it should be remembered - is perfectly in line with the general safeguard clause of the European Stability and Growth Pact which the European Union has rightly decided to extend, not least because, unlike other crises, there is awareness at European level that national states must be left able to maintain expansionary policies in order to emerge from the crisis. Then there are the resources of the Next generation EU, which the Update Note considers and whose effects begin to estimate; indeed, with a fiscal multiplier effect on the country's growth that is also cautious and precautionary: only 0.9 percent of GDP points in 2021, 0.8 in 2022, 0.7 in 2023. It is good that the government has presented us with cautious and precautionary estimates; it is also useful for policy to be aware that, from the use of these funds, we must be able to activate a much greater tax multiplier, if we want to put the country back on a path of growth. From here comes the first political element of this debate on the Update Note, in my opinion, that the money of the deviation, the European money, does not come from Mars; they come from the future, because we are asking them on loan to future generations of Europeans and Italians. Not even grants come from Mars, as well as transfers from Europe, which we rightly claim as a high-debt country, because we need those resources, which do not impact on debt sustainability and are a just and strong response from Europe (an embryo of fiscal union that complements monetary union, at last). Those lost funds, therefore, come from the future: we are borrowing them as Europeans. We must therefore feel the weight of the responsibility to spend it well, putting today's young people and future generations at the centre, from which this money comes. This element has an implication: we must quickly change step, not because the first was not right and necessary, but because now we need a different one. From an emerging logic, which rightly aimed to compensate the people and businesses most affected by a terrible crisis, such as the one we have experienced and that we are living, we must move to a design that puts at the centre a vision of growth of the country. Of course, we must do this with seriousness and graduality, as the Update Note in the context of public finance also invites us to do. Graduality means that now we must put three ingredients at the centre: the first is a series of interventions that are still emerging, but selective, compared to the sectors most affected (tourism, entertainment and a part of that of services), to the most fragile and most difficult people, because our network of social shock absorbers is not broad enough and universal; therefore, interventions that are still emerging, yes, but strongly selective, as the first ingredient. A second ingredient is the quick recovery of public and private investment to activate that tax multiplier. The third: reforms that allow that money to create sustained growth, yes, but also sustainable on an environmental and social level and inclusive growth, because a high-debted country like ours should know that without reforms money alone is not enough. To do this we need speed of time and courage of choices. This is the time for clear choices and priorities. Rightly, in these days of parliamentary debate we have focused a little on the book of dreams: it is right to dream, when we talk about guidelines for such important interventions, but now we will have to move quickly to the list of expenditure and our political responsibility is to make sure that it is not completely detached from the book of dreams, because we do not resist the porosity of the pressure of category or lobby with respect to the real decisions, to the living meat of public spending. It would be a political mistake if the list of expenditure did not speak to the book of dreams, and if these two realities are to be talked about, we must put in place a strong sense of responsibility towards young people and the future, not even the courage of choices. The fiscal expansion that we are voting on today and what the European Union will allow us will only make sense if we do not lose the compass that Government and Parliament have started to give themselves in the debate these weeks: sustainable growth, but also - I repeat - supported, because this country needs to get back on track. We will not be able to do this, as has been said in the debate these days, if we do not act forcefully on three flywheels of growth: female employment, youth employment and the recovery of total productivity of factors, allowing our productive system to hook up technological and ecological transitions and relaunching a path of public investment. Women's and youth employment are not only priorities for social inclusion, but are factors for growth. In this crisis we have lost about 600,000 people, despite the Cassa Integrazione and the stop to layoffs. They are 600,000 less occupied, which are not visible, such as the workers involved in the crisis tables, who end up in the newspapers, but are people in the flesh, who without this crisis would have had a job, an ambition and an income that they do not now have. Perhaps they are women who have stopped working because they had a temporary contract or because only on them is the burden of caring for our elders and children. These are young people who have entered the labour market but who have not found the opportunities that other generations have had. Without the dreams, talents and ambitions of these women and young people, Italy simply will not grow again. The money and the proposals are there. Only the courage of choice and the desire for the future are missing: Let's put 'em on! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u40	As agreed, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 2 p.m., with the continuation of the joint debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 2 p.m.) The session is resumed. Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues here, but there is no government of the nation. I see a purse on government benches, but I don't see the person.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u42	You're absolutely right. By not seeing representatives of the Government present in the Chamber and not receiving directions from members of the majority groups, I am forced to suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u43	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). The government purse is always something important. There is EUR 80 billion in Treasury: it may be that stock exchange, Mr President, is the Treasury.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u44	You don't take advantage of the government's absence to take over! [[Laughter.]] Pending the arrival of Deputy Minister Misiani, I briefly suspend the session which will resume at 14.10. (The sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 2.10 p.m.) The session is resumed. I am delighted with the presence of the Government and I therefore return the word to Senator Pichetto Fratin.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, Mr Under-Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the Finance Economy Document today brings us, in sequence with respect to the documents we have dealt with in the last six months, unfortunately, to assess the state of the art and to make an attempt at reading to date. Moreover, it is an attempt which, even with reference to what is reported in the Note update, is already evolving compared to fifteen days ago, when it was thought to be at the end of the pandemic, to the final 2020 forecasts, as well as to the 2021 and 2022 projections. An overall trend assessment highlights deviations of EUR 100 billion, a request for deviation today of another EUR 23,254 billion with a forecast at the end of the year of 9% of the collapse of gross domestic product and almost EUR 1,650 billion of gross domestic product as a result of this reduction. All this with a forecast by the Government of a programmatic rebound in 2021 of 6 percent, 3.8% in 2022 and 2.5% in 2023, with the difficulty at this time of making estimates. We are aware of the great difficulty, because at the end of this projection we will find ourselves with 303 billion euros additional. This is the projection, with an employment situation that has already seen 800,000 jobs lost and with all the indicators that - alas - tell us that these numbers will still increase, testing the government's ability to take effective measures. There is a first criticism I would like to make. There was much discussion of Next generation EU, with a significant investment forecast for 2021, 2022 and 2023, but the same Update Note provides for a trend effect of 0.3% in 2021, 0.8% in 2022 and 0.7% in 2023. The planned investment amounts to EUR 45 billion, which is a small figure when compared to what has been mentioned in other documents in relation to the structural funds that we have available for years and without calculating the share of national funds with which works have been financed. Therefore, we must evaluate all this from the perspective of the next three years and the Government will also have to assess the substitution effects, that is, how much of the previous 100 billion euros deviation we intend to replace with the new mechanisms. On this projection we will have the spaces of the SURE and the recovery fund, which also have a considerable political implication. In fact, it is specifically indicated that part of the recovery fund funds are used for youth and childcare interventions (5 per cent of the Reset-EU programme). On the part of the European Union there are a number of economic policy indicators which - alas - at the moment the Note updating the Economic and Financial Document, Mr Vice-Minister, does not say that it does not emphasize but in some cases does not mention, except in a very marginal and discursive way. Let's realize that there are themes mentioned, or at least developed, but they have the nature of the manifesto. Ladies and gentlemen, with this NADEF we are more than ever before the book of hope and I say it not in an ironic sense. I am talking about the book of hope because, to date, we do not know when the pandemic will pass, when we will get out (not us Italy, with a provincial vision, but we world) and what the Brexit effect will be. How will Brexit affect our economies? What percentage will it move on our gross domestic product, our exports and our people's movements? What kind of agreement will be concluded between Mrs Merkel and the frugal countries? Let me add another point: what effect will the outcome of the elections in the United States have on our country on November 3, depending on whether the two contenders win? It will have a great effect, given Trump's model of politics and the model of politics announced in the election campaign by Biden. All this with an influence on the Mediterranean, which is our market for the supply and definition of oil prices, and in part of the gas in the relationship with Russia. I believe that all these elements make it very difficult, unfortunately, to make the assessments "to decimal places," which instead we used to do with the normal Update Notes, in a firm and stable economic structure and, therefore, with a fairly predictable situation. Colleagues, we are at this moment in a situation where, on the one hand, if we want access to the recovery fund as we want - personally I also want access to the ESM - with respect to the update note, the health part will have to be managed and financed by the ESM and, on the other hand, we have a list of constraints that the European Union imposes on us. This list contains a series of reforms that we absolutely must complete, among other things, as a matter of urgency, and we can do so immediately and the government is lacking on this. These reforms concern the education system, the justice system, the tax system and a whole range of actions leading to the use of the great availability of funds that we could receive. I would also like to make a recommendation. The European Union's funds are divided into grants and funding: I believe that a great deal of effort must be made by our country to make priority use of the part relating to grants with direct action that has consequences for the country. I consider any action of debt substitution subsidies to be irrelevant, on the basis of one element: do we add EUR 300 billion and make it 290? Of the 2,500 billion euros that become 2,800 billions, in the end we discuss between 2,790 or 2,800? That's not a choice. The availability of subsidies, when they take place, is not a matter of competence but an immediate one, because the Commission pays - to understand us - within forty to the maximum sixty days, so in this case they can have a real effect if there is the condition and capacity of a government - which the current Commission has not shown at the moment - to act. However, we have another indicator, which I read numerically positive but which we must also read carefully politically: we have placed three-year BTPs at less than zero and the three-year BTP placement at less than zero means that there is no inflation, that there is no growth, that there is no pressure of demand compared to supply and this is not a good sign when it comes to recovery and expansion. For our part I repeat the most complete collaboration as a contribution of ideas, but of course we would like a subsequent opening by the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u46	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u47	There is less than half a page on family policies in the full document before Parliament and which will be put to the vote today, among other things to be divided into social policies: social and family policies. Once again, two policies are confused, two actions of government which in theory should, on the contrary, be clearly distinguished because one thing is social policies, which concern the fight against poverty, social inclusion and other thousand things, another is family policies, which we should start to consider as strategic. All the rest of the document, very rich, very full-bodied, with a thousand voices, does not consider the fundamental point of view of the demographic perspective. I have heard many times in this House reference to the demographic perspective, but there is little trace of it in this document. What does it mean to start looking at things with a demographic perspective? It means starting to think that we could build even the best infrastructure, we could also make the best green economy, we could realize all the women's empowerment or get to the perfection of the policies of the job, but if there will be no more Italians because they will no longer come to the world children, all this will do absolutely nothing. [[Applause]] We must begin to enter into the order of ideas that family policies are not an accessory, they are not something to forget or leave last or on which to spend two euros at the end of the right account because, otherwise, someone makes his voice heard, but they are the real strategic policies of our country. They are the real policies on which to focus all the attention and resources of our country, all the resources possible, because, otherwise, soon there will be no more a country. I do not want to mention here again the desolating birth rates: you know that we are at the bottom of the list, not of Europe, but of the world as a birth rate. On the other hand, I would like to focus on something that I am putting to the attention of the Government this afternoon, yours, Mr President, and also of all my colleagues. We have a significant gap between the rate of children desired by families and the rate of children actually then had. This is a significant gap. Families would like at least two or three children while, very often, they find themselves forced, for economic reasons, by the reasons of social acceptance of motherhood and fatherhood, to bring to the world only one. So, if we could give families the opportunity to bring into the world the children they would like to bring into the world today, without any further promotion if not simply to help families do what they would like to do, we would have an average of children born for every woman of childbearing age who, instead of 1.1 or 1.2, would safely reach over 1.5. Of course, we are still far from the rate of renewal, which must still be higher than 2; therefore, we are still talking about a society in decline, but at least it would be a concrete signal. To do all this, however, it is necessary to change the mentality and I, of this change of mentality, in the four shrivelled lines present in the Update Note to the DEF I find absolutely nothing. There is no change of mind. However, we are still trying to apply old recipes, which have already proved not to work. I'll explain. We cannot think of giving hope to the millions of young people who would like to get married or to the millions of young families who would like to bring new children into the world simply by proposing welfare policies, which arise from the same wretched mentality that thinks of solving the problems of Italy with the income of citizenship. We can't think of it that way. We must invest in these families with a form of taxation that is finally rewarding. I try to explain it even more simply: if we rate the income of the two parents in the order of 48 percent and then, gracefully, we give back a little money in the form of a cheque or a subsidy, we are not giving any hope to the families. In fact, we are basically depressing life expectancy and family hope, but we are also depressing the economy of this country. On the other hand, what is the policy that the League has been proposing for some time and that, on this point, has already proved to work in some narrow areas where it has been possible to apply it? The policy must be that of no tax area. Family duties must not be taxed, because if there is a father who has an income of 50,000 euros a year but has three children, that father must not be taxed even one euro from his income, because with 50,000 euros a year and three children, it is difficult to reach the end of the month. [[Applause]] And I put myself in the shoes of the workers who, with much less than 50,000 euros a year and maybe three, four or five children, still manage to make ends meet. Truly to them goes all our esteem, because today putting a child into the world in Italy is an act of heroes, it is a heroic act. I said that we must get out of the thinking of aid and finally enter into the mindset of family policy of a fiscal nature. This I would have liked to read in the Update Note to the DEF and instead what do I find? I find the family act, I find the integrated structural plan of family policies, which doesn't actually have a single euro on it. So what are we talking about? Of a dream, of a pious illusion that, however, does not see a single euro moved in the spending forecasts. This time you will not be able to hide behind the usual fandonia of the fact that there is no money, because - look at this - the money is there this time, there is indeed. We then want to test the good intentions of this Government and we want to see if we really want to make family policies or if we want to tell some lies and some urban legend again. Making family policies, as I said, means changing attitudes. The no tax area is built in a very simple way: every child and every dependent person (who can also be an elder, a disabled person or a person in need of care) must be completely extrapolated from the family income, which must not be calculated on the basis of individual incomes, because this then generates a great iniquity. The income of the whole household must be calculated and then, on the basis of that, the accounts must be made and there one must go to extrapolate, for each dependent child and for each household load, a no tax area, which can of course be variable according to the situation but on that income must not be paid taxes. Do you know that today in Italy children pay taxes before they are born? Each one of you had the pleasure of giving a little gift to some child who was not yet born, because maybe a child of friends waiting; when there is a pregnant woman, you go and see her and maybe you bring a dress or something else. All of you paid VAT on that product, all of you paid a value added tax on that product; that is, we pay taxes, whether direct or indirect, before even coming to the world. [[Applause]] The first thing they gave me when my three children were born wasn't just a gift, a pat on the shoulder, a smile, a saying: Bravo, you gave birth to three children, who will then pay taxes and pay pensions to all Italians.No, I was given the tax code of my children, because in the meantime, in doubt, we begin to register them for the tax registry. Well, I think this administration of the tax code to a newborn as the first gesture of welcome in our country could perhaps be changed and could become something more favorable towards the nascent life. I have concluded, Mr President. We must do what Churchill said (not "the Churchill de' noantri " but the real one), who used to say that the best investment in each country is to put milk in bottles. I repeat: the best investment that Italy can make today is to put milk, possibly tax-free, in bottles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u48	She's enlisted to speak Senator Accoto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I remember when last year we were discussing this same programme document in this House, among these benches; we never thought that such a difficult history page would be written. After what we have seen in the last ten months, what we are talking about today appears to us to be a very difficult language to translate. Not only our country, but Europe and the whole world have experienced unprecedented upheavals. Although this Update Note refers to the three-year period 2021-2023, the Government has also developed six-year macroeconomic and public finance projections, which will form the basis both for assessing the impacts of the investment programme and other actions funded by the Next Generation EU and for achieving public finance objectives. However, as we have seen in recent months, it is not at all easy to interpret the future. Precisely for this reason it is even greater the responsibility that, as a government and as a majority, we are taking to ferry our country out of this pandemic muddy. We will ferry him with the confidence that we will come out together, helping each other, perhaps panting, yes, but saving. What we are asking, however, is not an unconditional confidence in the decisions taken, but a feeling of national unity that must prevail over particularisms and unilateral decisions. After all, history is rich in difficult moments from which humanity has always come out stronger than before. What is different from the past is the earnest will to get out of it all together. In the pandemics once only the strongest or the most fortunate survived; today it is our task and duty to safeguard every single human life. The government can - and it is - alleviate the effects of any economic loss or work difficulties. Unfortunately, what we cannot do is return life to the many who have left us and who deserve to be the very soul of our work, responsible and prudent, in the coming months. NADEF contains within it the spirit of a united and united Europe. The macroeconomic scenario outlined therein contains all the instruments that will be made available to our country with the Next Generation EU plan and in particular that will be dedicated to the projects included in the National Plan for the recovery of residence at the beginning of next year. The resources to be allocated to Italy are estimated at some 205 billion, 78 of which are grants and 127 of loans. The next budget law and recovery and residence facility grants will have a total value of around 2% of GDP in 2021; the priority will be to exploit these capitals, in order to ensure the reduction of the social and economic impact of the pandemic crisis, primarily by supporting workers' incomes, as well as employment. In this respect, it should be stressed that the measures taken so far have prevented the most adverse scenarios. The introduction of instruments such as the derogation fund meant that the percentage of employees fell by far less than the fall in the labour input linked to the closure of production activities. Istat notes a cyclical increase in employment of 0.4 per cent, both in July and last August; moreover, the recent manoeuvres of stimulus of the economy undertaken with the so-called re-launch decree and the subsequent measures have resulted in a positive change to 5.1 per cent of the forecast of economic growth for 2021 compared to the previous estimates of the DEF that stood at 4.7 per cent. We are working actively in the parliamentary committees precisely to structure an action plan for the effective use of European funds. Public and private investment will be relaunched and important reforms implemented within a plan to relaunch and transition towards a more innovative economy, more environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive. Of course - our banner has always been - we will pay particular attention to territorial cohesion, providing for a tax advantage and infrastructure investments. What we are talking about is a contemporary new deal, a great reform plan based on the state impulse in all strategic sectors of the new millennium. No economic sector will be left behind (of course you don't want to invest to go back); the goal is to accompany the recovery by looking at future scenarios. This floor is not a closed and hermetic box, but open to suggestions and contributions from all representations. We want a positive dialogue, not instrumental to sterile criticism and spoiled by preconceptions [[Applause]] From the entrepreneurs come daily incentives to support the recovery with interventions on the cost of the job and it is precisely in the interest of the country a structural reform that reduces the tax on the job and that positively affects the average incomes, always the largest group of the working population, without forgetting also all those who instead have lower incomes and have been hit hard by the crisis. We know that the industrial sector can be the real locomotive of the job recovery, but it is certain that, although the Government will provide the propulsion to start this engine, then the entrepreneurs themselves will have the burden of not holding the handbrake pulled, as it has all too often happened in the past. There is also an impressive fiscal manoeuvre, around 40 billion, with a deficit financing ratio of more than 22 billion euros, which will be accompanied by a scrupulous management of public finance aimed at reducing the net debt of the public administration, compatible with the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio. In fact, compared with this year a decline in real gross domestic product of 9% is estimated, a programmatic growth already in 2021 of 6%, which will be expected to be 3,8 per cent in 2022 and 2,5% in 2023. Thus, a progressive return plan is outlined to bring the debt of the public administration below the pre-Covid-19 level by the end of the decade. The economic indicators are right, indicating overall a positive and gradual recovery of the economy, which we hope will result in greater confidence of households and the productive sector, as well as in increasing global demand. Trust is slowly gained, step by step, brick after brick; we never took it for granted, and we know very well that a small crack is enough to ruin everything in an instant. But the work, if good, is right that it is emphasized without preconceptions, with the hope of a luxuriant rebirth after this harsh winter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, now that we are facing an important crossroads with NADEF and the other measures that await us, I would like to remind this House of some aspects that concern the basis of the recovery fund's success. Here, like Movimento 5 Stars, we have confirmed clearly and decisively that the areas of intervention will make the difference. The cry of pain of our productive fabric continues to be heard in this very difficult 2020, marked in a very hard way by coronavirus and that has cost us so much in terms of GDP and real economy. For this reason, all our productive sectors are asking us for an effort never seen to give them not only decisive answers related to the emergency, but also all the structural measures that our small and medium-sized enterprises have been waiting for for years. To this end, already the guidelines on the recovery plan that we have outlined speak very clearly. The polar stars to follow are those of digitalisation and innovation, education and training, the green revolution and ecological transition, good mobility and social equity, health protection and public health that has the resources it deserves, and not the remains of the different budget laws, as happened for at least two decades. Efforts on the part of politics, therefore, but also good will on the part of our friends of Confindustria for example. I myself have made my own legislative proposals that I find necessary to support strategic industrial sectors for our country. But what I do not see in the current presidency is the willingness to cooperate constructively. The Government and Parliament certainly have a duty to support the recovery with legislative instruments, but it is also necessary to overcome the historic resistance of Italian entrepreneurs to investment in human resources and in research and development; investments that will not follow in three or four years, because they are needed immediately. For our companies, the effort we need is supplementary. From this pandemic our productive fabric will have to emerge strengthened and aware that the State is not an enemy of the private initiative, but a precious ally ready to compete because our country, the second manufacture of Europe, returns to the productive levels it deserves. An epochal measure such as the 110% superbonus is driven by this objective: a mechanism strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars to produce a real shock in a crucial sector for our economy and with a very high economic multiplier like that of construction. A building that we want different: more sustainable, virtuous and avant-garde. Inserted in the decree-law I throw again, already in the so-called decree-law August the superbonus has been perfected and has been enlarged in fact the audience; now it must be further consolidated, because it is a wide plan of interventions of energetic and anti-seismic restructurings that, according to all the main business associations, from Confindustria to the ABI, from Unioncamere to the ANCE, passing for the professional associations, is able to give a clear reversal of tendency to a sector that has tribulated a lot, but that must be supported and helped. (14.44) (Follows LANZI). This innovation can create hundreds of thousands of jobs. It is not our prediction, but the result of concrete projections. Not only is the superbonus to be strengthened, but as a majority we have agreed on the need to achieve stabilisation - at least on a three-year basis - of transition 4.0, which we have already transformed and simplified in the last budget law. Reinforcing these measures is the most reasonable way to make a real contribution to our industry. In this case, we refer to that massive package of tax incentives, already worth €7 billion a year, which will allow companies to invest in capital goods, machinery, technological goods, software and everything that will enable them to compete best on domestic and international markets. There is also a separate chapter that must be addressed, in which reference is made to the productive fabric of our country, which concerns the valorization of the production capacity of the South. In fact, it is essential to extend the 30% contribution for companies in the South: a measure introduced by the recent Decree-Law of August. Spread on a multiannual basis, this measure will allow more massive and lasting investments in the southern regions, with an employment impact of a different source than the current one. The South can truly become the symbol of our country's rebirth in the post-Covid. We have to be ready when the time comes. The path we are making to the budget law must move along this path. There is much more to be refined for our small and medium-sized enterprises. With the Government we are working hard in the sign of concreteness: from trade to industry, from agriculture to tourism, from logistics to crafts. The answers to be given are many, but the courage, the proposals and the ideas are there. The road is marked. The Covid, unfortunately, is destined to hit our businesses again. The latter know that the Government and the majority in Parliament will always be at their side, ready for the greatest effort not to kill productivity in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u54	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to make one point. We have seen that the list of members, compared with what was planned for the resumption of work, has suddenly been extended. The question is: we are usually told that the possibility of enrolling people to speak must be given before the beginning of the sitting. I understand that there may also be time available, but is it possible for this to happen? Let's talk about six, seven people. It is enough to know: it is a precedent and if necessary we will all do the same thing, because I have always been told that registration must take place before the beginning of the sitting. During the work in the past it was allowed to include, perhaps, one or two persons at most on the list of members. Here, six, seven units have increased. If the majority does not have the 161 votes necessary to approve the budgetary deviation, let the opposition know, say it clearly and say it especially to the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u55	Senator Romeo, just for the sake of complete information, I did a verification. First of all, we are within the time available, just as it was decided by the Conference of the Leaders and the Assembly. However, the President authorised the current list of members to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u58	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, forgive me but I find that Senator Romeo's speech is instrumental because, until recently, Senator Calderoli was president. Senator Romeo has therefore waited for the change of presidency to put the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u59	Thank you, but the Presidency is a collegiate office and is still ready and willing to respond to any request for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u62	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking as I have been called into question. It is true that by the end of the morning seven new members were added to speak. The Presidency has recalled the Rules of Procedure, which it expects to be entered in the general debate, normally within the previous 24 hours and has therefore submitted the request to the presidency of the Senate, because I personally would not have accepted them. The President of the Senate accepted this request and therefore they were inserted, in the order in which the request was made.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u63	Thank you, President Calderoli. It was precisely in this sense that I made the clarifications, in the unity of the Bureau. He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u64	Mr President, today's debate on NADEF inevitably ties in with the path already taken to deal with the epidemiological emergency. It is a path that starts from the decree cure Italy and continues with the decrees liquidity, relaunching, simplifications and August and passes now to NADEF and the imminent law of budget, which in turn will be read in conjunction with the recovery fund. There is no doubt, as written in NADEF, that a path to relaunching the country will not be able to do without a deep and organic tax reform, as well as the reform and digitalization of public administration and the speeding up of the times of justice, also the fiscal reform will be decisive in the horizon of opportunities that opens before us with the recovery fund and with the possibility - this needs to be evaluated - of issuing public debt securities at zero or negative rates, as in the case, for example, of the three-year bonds (it is news of yesterday). I also heard in this House yesterday, in a rather instrumental way, that there is no tax reform and that there will be no trace of it for a few years. Tax reform certainly cannot be written in an emergency and cannot be written in a few weeks. We need to start the discussion, as the government is doing. Parliament must be genuinely involved. I am right in this respect to the opposition. This can also be done by means of a delegation law, which the Government itself has also spoken of. Tax reform is a path, in order to deal with it, however, we must start. Last year we cut the tax wedge for 16 million taxpayers, who are now in action to confirm that cut, which was valid until the end of 2020. We are working to incorporate into the maneuver the single family allowance, linked to the ISEE, which will allow us to rationalise a whole series of bonuses and facilities, which are now excessively pulverized. NADEF shows the number of tax expenses that are actually no longer acceptable: we are at 513 in 2019, which in 2020 has risen to 532. We MEPs, both in the majority and in the opposition, should make a small self-criticism about this. The number and extent of tax expenditure is enormous, as we always say, every year, but unfortunately we are the first to propose any measure of economic support, of any kind, through deduction, which is always the most popular instrument. The tax burden, in the coming years, is reduced to existing legislation and will, for the most part, fall with the measures that we are going to implement. The use of technology will be essential, both in order to simplify the relationship between administration and citizens, and in order to counter, in preventive function, tax evasion, which in Italy reaches still too high levels. I believe that we should talk precisely about preventive function or prevention of evasion, because we have seen that the term 'fight to escape' unfortunately has not worked in recent years and has helped to create a climate of mistrust between financial administration and taxpayer. The government knows this and we have all been able to see it with the introduction of e-invoicing. Escape is prevented by technology. The end of the route will be the recalibration of the Irpef, which will have to significantly lighten the tax burden on the middle class, the one most penalized, especially because of the 11 point jump from the rate of 27 percent to that of 38 percent. So we are talking about a journey, not about delays or dream books, as we have heard. There is talk of majority-opposition cooperation: the opposition calls for involvement - and I agree - as long as there is awareness that we really need to be united in dealing with the effort. But then I hear a part of the opposition, still in the Chamber yesterday, spreading falsehoods, such as the fact that the Government would be canceling 100, when the League of Government itself agreed to launch the measure as a three-year measure and therefore due to expire at the end of 2021. [[Applause]] I also hear that the government would be canceling a woman's option, when yesterday, when Senator Salvini said so, we all knew that the government had decided to extend it in the budget maneuver. [[Applause]] Or again, we hear that the INPS is not paying the supplementary funds, when we all know that in early September the INPS paid 11.06 million supplementary funds out of 11.4 million: the percentage seems quite high and defensible. [[Applause]] I say this because I wonder if there is any real willingness to cooperate with the opposition. However, I hope that everyone can really participate in this effort, even by sharing innovative solutions. As Movimento 5 Stars we have different ones: the superbonus, I will never tire of saying it, it is our measure and we must say it first. It was designed and wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars. The principle of free movement of tax credits has been introduced, which has also been extended to other forms of tax facilitation. It is now a matter of taking a further step forward and allowing the use of these credits as means of payment for goods and services, once certified on a computer platform, in security and in compliance with all constraints. President, today we are here to discuss the possibility of designing the country of the future. It is thanks to this Government and the majority, in which a decisive role is and will continue to be played by the Movimento 5 Stars. I call on the Government to involve Parliament, the majority and the opposition more closely. To the opposition, to some opposition, I ask not to be the bearer of only resentment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u65	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u66	Mr President, the Update Note to the 2020 Economy and Finance Document defines the perimeter of public finance within which the measures of the next Budget Act will be included, which will aim to support the recovery of the Italian economy in the three-year period 2021-2023. The actions will have to be aimed at supporting in the short term, throughout the Covid-19 crisis, workers in the most affected productive sectors, to make full use of the resources made available by the Next Generation EU programme, to carry out investments and reforms of unprecedented scale and depth, to strengthen investments in support of recovery in the Mezzogiorno and the internal areas in order to improve territorial cohesion. They will then aim to implement a broad tax reform that improves the fairness, efficiency and transparency of the tax system, to ensure a qualitative improvement in public finance, to ensure an improvement in the well-being of citizens, equity and productivity of the economy, and will aim to bring the net debt of public administration back to levels compatible with a constant and significant reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio. An ambitious programme, in which the objective of territorial cohesion cannot be lacking. The long-standing question of the depopulation of inland areas, whether mountain or island, is a global problem. We have inaugurated the third millennium with a record that must make us reflect: the world population living in the metropolis and megalopolis has overcome what lives on the rest of the planet; continuing this step, we will reach two thirds, then three quarters and so on. But is such a situation acceptable? Is it compatible with the ecosystem, with a dignified human existence? Several decree-laws and legislative initiatives have for some time announced interventions aimed at combating this situation, without the political choice being made to reserve resources capable of reversing this trend. Now the money is there and we cannot afford to miss the opportunity for the redevelopment of villages and countries, for infrastructure works, for the maintenance and strengthening of essential public services (schools, health care centres, public security places, first of all), for more adequate transport and connectivity through broadband. That's how we fight depopulation. With regard to the international macroeconomic scenario, we note with concern that in the first half of 2020 the world economy experienced the most profound setback since the Second World War and this as a result of the spread of the pandemic by Covid-19. Despite the extraordinary measures of fiscal and monetary policy to support workers' incomes and the productive fabric, adopted by governments and central banks, the productive bloc has led to a contraction of GDP and world trade at record levels and the global scenario seems still oriented downwards, because of the fact that the evolution of the epidemic in the world - which continues to manifest with particular intensity in many countries - risks linked to geopolitical tensions pre-existing to the epidemic and exacerbated recently: from the tense trade relations between the United States and China, to the difficulties of the Brexit negotiation process, to the emergence of new complications in the relations between Turkey and Russia. Like many speakers in this House yesterday and today, the geopolitics of the Mediterranean has completely changed. In place of bilateral, multilateral and decentralized cooperation, we are witnessing the escalation of the wars by proxy, which make particularly fragile the balance that has been difficultly built in the previous twenty years. The foreign policy of our country cannot be reduced to the right measures in favour of Made in Italy through the refinancing of the revolving fund for the internationalization of trade fairs and innovative start-ups. The Mediterranean dimension of the European Union and its active role in peace and the promotion of human rights must be re-launched. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u67	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u68	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this note updating the economic and financial document for the health sector, the recommendation of the Council of the European Union to strengthen the resilience and capacity of the health system, improving governance and crisis response capacity, to bridge the public investment gap that has affected the health sector. We have repeated several times in this House that over the last ten years EUR 37 billion has been cut off from the public sector; we have lost 71,000 beds, especially in critical areas, including intensive care; 46,000 workers (doctors and nurses) have left the public health service to see their merit recognised in private facilities. For these reasons the Movimento 5 Stars for two years has been working on a reform of the National Health Service that puts at the center pillars for us fundamental, starting from the infrastructures. Already in the last budget law we have allocated EUR 2 billion for health building and the technological modernisation of our hospitals. We had tabled an amendment to our signature, which was intended to allocate the contribution to general medical doctors to equip themselves with diagnostic tools precisely for the purchase of telemedicine tools. How useful these telemedicine tools would have been to doctors of general medicine also in the management of this pandemic! We have focused on digitisation because, for us, the electronic medical record and the electronic health file must become a reality in all the Italian regions. ( [[Applause]] ). In our reforms we focus on research and Italy is the country where we invest less in research and development and it is the country that has the lowest number of researchers in Europe by number of inhabitants. There is no pre-role path defined for researchers in this country. I, as a researcher of the largest Italian public research agency, know very well how mortifying it is not to have funds available for research projects. We have focused on the enhancement of healthcare professionals, starting with their training. There is talk of a training funnel, which has been created because it has not been able to program: there has been no programming of specialists in the health sector according to the health needs of the population. For this reason, in the last budget law, we have allocated 3 million to the Observatory for the Accreditation of Specialization Schools and we have established a technostructure for coordination between the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas) and the Observatory for Specialization Schools, which will be used to plan the needs of specialists. There is no shortage of doctors, but specialists in some areas. Staff must also be valued by stabilizing the precarious health care. We all know that if the National Health Service held the shock wave it is for the resilience and dedication of all healthcare professionals, many of which, due to the blockade of recruitment in health care, which we finally passed, have been working for decades with precarious contracts. ( [[Applause]] ). We have therefore stabilized a first block of precarious people and will continue along this path. We have focused on a reform of governance, starting with the appointments of managers and directors-general, who for us must be meritorious and not politically, always putting merit and competence at the centre. Reviewing governance also means strengthening the role of central state leadership because we can no longer afford a different access to the care of citizens on national territory. Reviewing governance implies a review of the relationship between public and private health, with public health that must be a crutch and not a sponge that absorbs fundamental resources for public service. Reviewing governance also means reviewing access to medicines and treatment. Drugs must be increasingly innovative and personalised. In the last budget law we have allocated EUR 1 billion for innovative medicines. We have foreseen new methods of reimbursement of the cost of the drug such as the payment by result, used by the Italian Agency of the drug (AIFA) to contract the price of the drug with the Chimeric antigen cell manufacturers receptionor T (CAR-T). We are convinced that in order to ensure the sustainability of the National Health Service we must focus precisely on innovation and appropriate care. Reviewing governance means finally implementing that National Plan chronicity, which is actually applied only in very few regions, and completely reforming territorial medicine, which is not only general medicine, but is a network of primary care and intermediate care. These pillars on which we have worked so far with our legislative and amending proposals are also the pillars of this Note to update the Economic and Financial Document and will be the pillars of the next Budget Act. Let us put programming at the centre according to the health needs of the population. We put at the center the skills and also the evaluation of the results, which in this country, unfortunately, is often a utopia. We need to reform health to make it a real tool for health protection and only with defined and solid projects will we make the best use of the recovery fund funds and, in general, the Next Generation EU tool. We have understood at our expense that we do not need to spend less, but we need to spend better, especially reducing waste and inefficiencies. We will not have another opportunity if we cannot use this tragedy to have the courage to finally implement the reforms that the country has been waiting for for at least a decade. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u70	Mr President, every generation is expected to change the world. My own - Albert Camus wrote - knows that it will not change it, but its task is even greater and consists in preventing the world from falling apart, heir of a poisoned history in which failed revolutions, crazy technique, dead gods and exhausted ideologies are mixed. Where mediocre powers can annihilate everything today, but they are not able to convince, where intelligence has lowered to become enslaved to hatred and oppression, this generation has had to rebuild itself and around itself, starting from its own denials, a bit of what the dignity of living and dying does. I would like to make this reference to the fact that it is not by chance, as is the case in this House in recent months, if the discussions we are facing on individual measures are never limited only to them, but are trying to go further by analysing the reality that runs with its problems around our eyes and perhaps imagining a better tomorrow. They are discussions about the great opportunity to plan the future of this country. This huge opportunity passes, as has been repeatedly said in this House, to the huge resources of the Next Generation EU plan, representing a significant result of the action of the Government and the majority supporting it. It is a result that in the interests of the whole country can and must be enriched, in our opinion, by the contributions of all political forces. We are in fact faced with an epochal crisis and therefore with a turning point that absorbs all aspects of existence. This sincere invitation to collaboration is not a pretext to be exhibited in a speech here or in television interviews, but finds the daily commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars also through what happened, for example, this morning in the Finance Committee where, having to express an opinion on NADEF, we as a majority addressed to the opposition forces a sincere invitation to analyze the measure, the government action and the solutions that were proposed in the document. In fact, if there had been a proposal from the opposition forces valid and to be included, the majority forces would have had no problem in receiving them. We do this not in order to tend, as has been said, pitfalls or traps, but because we are fully convinced of the dramatic reality of the country, of the demands that the citizens every day manifest to us and that the president of the Republic Mattarella never tires of remembering us. Never before is maximum unity needed at this time; in a dialectic that is also strong among political forces, however, there is a need for a spirit of constituent and republican collaboration, the only one that can allow us today to solve the problems of citizens and create the economic and social conditions so that in the coming years the country can return to live and run, socially and economically conscious and conscious, as I am, that this is not an opportunity reserved only for those who today govern. This is instead an opportunity that the majority offers to the country and the opposition, knowing that, in a noble and healthy practice of alternation, today it is up to us and tomorrow it will be their turn, with the wish, since today, that they can do the best for Italy. Aware of all this, we recognize that - it is true - we are running to examine the measures. However, let us be careful because this speed of parliamentary work is not a characteristic of this majority and of this Government: it is a speed we have recorded and we have often complained about with the previous Government. However, we must all be aware that there is no tomorrow to change the parliamentary dialectic and the spirit of collaboration, which must be Republicans. The opportunity passes today, because today we work out and examine decisive measures for the future of the country and the citizens look at us. [[Applause]] I, like other colleagues, have noted with great pleasure and satisfaction, in the speeches made yesterday in the Assembly by some opposition representatives, a fierce and timely criticism of government action, but also some first timid signal to the majority that a spirit of cooperation should be established. We are here and want to practice every day, to the extent that we can, the appeal that the President of the Republic never tires of proposing to us, in order to give the country the best answers. In NADEF - as you know - there are no answers to all the problems and - in my opinion - it is wrong to criticize this or that point, this or that forecast figure on what the economy will be in 2021 or in the coming years. We must be aware and tell the citizens that, faced with the pandemic, of which we do not see a certain end, economic forecasts are also precarious. What is certain is the sincere action of this Government that, in NADEF, makes a survey of all the problems and gives a perspective to the country, stressing - for example - the need for fiscal reform. Mr President, I shall conclude. There can be no rebirth for this country, nor the call to the republican spirit and its practice if we do not begin to explain to the citizens that every republican pact and any social pact is based on the contributory ability to give honestly. We cannot ask a government and a state to have subsidies if, then, the taxpayer thinks that he can continue to evade this duty. The issue of resources is important. Never before is this government putting a large mass of resources into the economic and productive system...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u71	I invite you to conclude, Senator Di Nicola.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u72	DI NICOLA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. We would like even more to be distributed with discernment and, perhaps, even with the opposition's suggestions. We have the problem of controlling the use of resources, starting with what individual citizens do, but also business. Perhaps, from this point of view, if we want to be a different country, we must understand that, if we want to begin to recognize the social role of the enterprise, the citizens - in this case the workers - must have the possibility to influence... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Nicola, I really invite you to conclude. DI NICOLA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. We want to look, as a majority, also at the possibility of drawing on German experience to try to involve, in management... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u74	Mr President, the Update Note is now a songful exercise: you gurgle notes on a staff written by Europe, but the Europe of the Italian real economy, of the Italian families, doesn't matter anything; moreover, it is not equipped to write this music here. Yesterday as today, the Ministry of Economy and Finance in its structure is a piece of the system of power, of the cab of direction of a Europe with only financial and speculative traction. There is no interest in its radar of Italian companies, Italian families, Italian workers. The appointment to the Unicredit presidency of Pier Carlo Padoan, former Minister of Economics and Finance of Renzi and Gentiloni, confirms this. And finally Pier Carlo arrived - we could say - because before him at the MEF there was the late Fabrizio Saccomanni, Minister with Enrico Letta; in via XX Settembre he arrived from the bridge of command of Bankitalia. What did Saccomanni do after his ministerial assignment? He went to be president of the board of directors of Unicredit - but you look - until the day of his death. Before Saccomanni, at the Ministry of Economics and Finance there was Vittorio Grilli: he arrived at the top of the Treasury, where he was head of the Directorate for Privatisations; then, among other things, this office suspended him, because he went to Credit Suisse - happens to always go to the important banks - but then return again to the Ministry, where he became General Accountant of the State, then General Director of the Treasury and finally Minister in the Monti Government. Yay! Well, what's Grilli going to do after the MEF assignment? He goes to the J.P. Morgan business bank as corporate president area Europe, Middle East and Africa. Yay! Finished? No, we still have one to serve. His name is Domenico Siniscalco, for his friends Mimmo. Mimmo came to be Minister of Economy from the Treasury Directorate-General, where he had taken the place of Mario Draghi, who - it is known - packed his bags to go to Goldman Sachs and then returned to the Bank of Italy and to the ECB. Now we'll see if President of the Republic does and God doesn't want to do it. Well, what will Mimmo Siniscalco do when he leaves the Ministry? He's going to be Morgan Stanley's international vice president and other positions that are no less important. All this excursus makes us understand that the MEF is one of the most strategic and functional machine rooms of the system: you arrive if you are part of it and if you accept the rules. The MEF is used for the system, not for the real economy, for families and for workers. Since we entered the European logic, it is even more so and this Update Note is also functional to these financial game jams, where the people leave the crumbs, selling them as a success and the data demonstrate it: nine million debitory folders ready to tear small and medium-sized enterprises and families, businesses not paid by the public administration; increasingly absurd rules in the catering, crafts, commerce; credit system light years away from companies; tax pressure inversely proportional, elusive policies for multinationals - I inform you that they do not make cash transactions, indeed; other than lottery of receipts - and tax pressing on small businesses. Families are frightened, stressed by the crisis and its obvious social injustices; the bills of light and gas are shameful, because you do not have the courage to remove the burdens of the system. What a new green deal! The bills must be drastically reduced, and not a little bit with scissors, because Italian families have their pockets full. But what do you care? Both the Government's concerns are to give Unicredit presided over by Padoan that Montepaschi that former minister Padoan had nationalized. The usual friendly government of friends! So: live Italy, honor to the Italians and away from Europe. Viva Italexit! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u75	The joint debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that the Presidency has received, on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, motions for resolutions nos. 100, presented by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger, and 101, presented by Senators Ciriani, Bernini and Romeo. In addition, the Presidency has received motions for resolutions Nos 2, 3 and 4 on the Update Note to the 2020 Economic and Financial Document. 1, presented by Senators Marcucci, Perilli, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and 2, presented by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u76	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in my reply I will try to address a number of points raised by my colleagues in their speeches. In fact, I think it is appropriate for clarity to be made here. It must be ensured that those who follow us can have correct and purified information from political positions. The data, in short, must be given and must not be distorted for a political advantage. First of all, on the question of the recovery of amounts by the Government, I believe that what Senator Toffanin said is incorrect, namely that the recovery of tax evasion will be used. It is certainly true that the Government will continue to pursue policies to combat fraud and tax evasion and, in general, to improve compliance, which in recent years have achieved remarkable results, above expectations, but the programmatic projections do not include any further increases in revenue resulting from the fight against evasion. On the other hand, it is expected that a fund will be set up, to be fed with the revenue actually generated by this activity, which will be used to finance fiscal reform measures and to reduce public debt. I did not say before in the intervention that, as regards the resources for the financing of the interventions provided for by the budgetary maneuver, they will be ensured by the following areas of intervention: the remodulation of some investment funds and the launch of a programme for the revision and redevelopment of public administration expenditure; the revision of some environmentally harmful subsidies; revenue increases resulting from the improvement of compliance, also related to the incentive to use electronic payment instruments; additional revenue from the growth generated by the investment programme (this tax feedback is included, in part, in estimates only from 2022); use of the resources made available by the package in the Next generation EU, including those of REACT-EU funds, rural development and RRF (recovery and residence facility). As for professionals, even with the known difficulties of relationship with these categories, it is good to remember that, for the first time in history, they were considered by the State when there was financial support to be provided. It never happened before they got anything. I am referring to the fund of last resort of the decree cure Italy, with the advance contribution of the coffers for matters of speed, but in reality paid by the State. If I understood correctly, Mr De Bertoldi said that the logic of the government is, or has been in the past, hitting the rich. But in this pandemic phase, in which he was faced with a catastrophic situation never before, the government's intention was, first and foremost, to protect the weak sections of the nation. At the same time, efforts have been made to support the country's productive belt, but there has never been any intention of hitting anyone. Certainly, it has not been completed - as Senator Rauti correctly said - the law of delegation on tax reform, to which, however, the Government is working, because there was no room, first of all temporal and second economic, to be able to act. As you know, any assumption of tax reform that can significantly lower the level of taxation must also be considered and passed on to budgetary correction; and certainly no reform can be made in a state of emergency. And in 2020 we had and only have to work to get the country back on track. The government's intention, of any government, is to make a tax reform. We would be mean if we charged any government in office at this stage, in this 2020, the fact that we did not bring this project home. It has been said that we saved the banks. Apart from the fact that by the expression "save" banks, in fact, it should be understood not to save bankers, but to save the productive fabric that is around banks; those companies that have required trust because they need it to work and keep working and living their employees, the bankers who have their responsibilities for having brought the banks in those conditions will respond to their actions. But the judiciary needs to think about it, not us. I remember that we are the legislative part of this system. And I remember - just to say how true this thing is - that while the government recently saved the People's Bank of Bari, at the same time the judiciary is instructing trials against the leaders who destroyed that bank. I welcome what Senator Monti said about the definition of the recovery fund as a better instrument and a greater source of concern at the same time. This must lead us to understand that the use that we will make of it and the support that we will give to this Government - each for its own part, all the political forces present in Parliament - will be essential in order to work to the best of our ability, and not only in order not to waste the rain of billions that will come, but also in order to use it effectively and efficiently, because I really believe that this is our last chance of recovery. As we start from a higher level of debt than other countries, we must make the most of this possibility, not wasteing a single penny. Of course, this will be difficult for a country where construction costs are significantly higher than the rest of the European Union. I am not just referring to the construction costs of roads, railways or other important works, which in the case of Italy - as we know - are three times higher than those of France and almost four times higher than those of Spain, but also to the lower costs. I remember that when a couple of years ago the city councilman came to visit us at the public works in Bilbao and learned the cost of our roundabouts, he pointed out that from them, in Bilbao, they cost about four times less, confirming those cost levels. This means that at both high and low levels there are such problems that need to be solved. The change of the country depends on us, on all of us, at all levels, and it is not only the Government that must finance itself with the fight against evasion, which we remember to be equal to about 100 billion euros. We all have to work on that front. According to a note made by Senator Ferro, the worst-case present in NADEF would not be a real worst-case. Here we have to make a difference between the company and the state. The worst-case scenario for a company that makes an investment choice is different from that of the State, because there is never limit to the worst, but for this you must not go and hypothesize the catastrophe in a scenario, otherwise all the money in the world will not be enough. So, the best thing to do is to assume yes a worsening scenario, but with an extreme probability level; you can't consider everything. But I agree with one thing: we need everyone and that is why we must all start providing support to the country, starting from our little one here in the Senate. If we want ours and your provisions accepted, then let's start working together in here, regardless of the government. Let me give an example, perhaps trivial, but - if you think about it - it is true: let us reduce the number of amendments tabled on the measures under consideration, otherwise we cannot all work together and bring the amendments home with everyone's satisfaction. 2.672 amendments have been tabled, 23% of which - almost a quarter, just to remind Senator Ferro - have been tabled by Forza Italia; this does not allow anyone to work properly. And it is not a criticism of Forza Italia, because we have all tabled a large number of amendments. We should be able to be more on the point, in such a way that we really work on what the country is interested in. If we want to cooperate, we try to fight politically about facts and we don't use our time and breath to disassemble fake news. You will remember that yesterday President Perilli had to reorganize his speech to respond to the false news given by Senator Salvini. It has been said - for example - that there has been an increase in energy tariffs, which Italian citizens will now pay. Attention: the increase in energy prices is due to a market trend because, again increasing consumption in the post-Covid, market prices have increased, which had fallen at that stage, returning to pre-Covid levels. If we want to be precise - now I have to give some numbers, which I do not like to do - after the declines of the second quarter (- 18% electricity and -13.5% gas), continued also in the third quarter, with the strengthening of the recovery of economic activity came a rebound in energy prices. But with regard to the effects on consumers, in 2020 the typical family will still benefit from a total saving of about 207 euros compared to 2019. In detail, for electricity -13.2 percent and for gas -12 percent. So, in fact, in 2020 we did not have an increase, but a saving compared to 2019. It is certainly true that we will have to act on the system charges - as Senator Paragon said - but we must not go around saying incorrect things. The services market should be opened up to greater supply, which will bring significant direct benefits to citizens. Let us remember in this regard that we have already activated the superbonus of 110 percent, as well as an incentive rate of Mise. The 110% superbonus will have effects that will go far beyond the economic aspect of families, as we know; moreover, with regard to taxation, let us not forget the cancellation of the VAT safeguard clauses. Senator Pichetto Fratin said that there are a few investments, about 75 billion, if I remember correctly; he spoke of a small amount, but I remember that we have another 150 billion in current legislation; as always, the problem of this country is not so much to invest them but to spend them, to go ahead; moreover, since for 100 million of investment we take ten years, we must act in that area and reduce the times and with the decree-law simplifications we have given a first blow. Finally, Senator Rauti and Senator Pillon addressed the demographic issue. They are absolutely right: it is essential to solve the demographic problem of support for families, but it does not seem to me that for years the right has done something about it, indeed. Instead, the 2020 Budget Act established the universal allowance fund and services to the family; in 2021 the resources dedicated to the delivery of the birth grant, the so-called baby bonus, and the daycare bonus and additional resources will be directed to the implementation of interventions in the field of support and enhancement of the family, as well as to reorder and systematize policies to support families with children. Even during the Covid emergency, the resources of the social funds (National Fund for Non-self-sufficiency, After us, Family Policy Fund) have been increased with the aim of strengthening the system of interventions of territorial systems dedicated to the family and disability. We can rightly have different political positions, but I think it is correct to report what has been done in this period by the Government; these are activities that - I repeat - no one would ever have thought of having to manage in such a short time and for which the support of all, even at this stage of approval of the budgetary deviation, is a question that is of help not to the Government or the majority, but to the whole Italy [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u77	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrero.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of an unprecedented situation such as the one caused by Covid-19 has certainly led to difficult economic scenarios. We are also aware that optimism is a fundamental component in trying to overcome the difficulties at best, but that optimism must not become a lack of awareness of what the future scenarios may be. The feeling is that we are dramatizing the health situation, causing perhaps excessive fears - I refer to Senator Rivolta's speech - and we are demoralizing the economic situation, making too rosy forecasts of the economic indices for 2020 and the coming years. In NADEF, GDP is forecast to fall to 9% - it was 8% in the DEF and, therefore, it has deteriorated by one percentage point - but we know that the September estimate of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is even expected to fall by 10.5%, while Confindustria in October - is recorded in the hearings, in particular of the Parliamentary Bureau - predicts a 10% drop. The Parliamentary Budget Office is therefore the first to warn about these estimates. In addition, NADEF expects a 4% increase in social contributions over the three-year period 2021-2023, but does not take into account the lack of estimation of the impact of the termination of the ban on dismissals at 31 December 2020, in terms of the lack of income in contributions and on the exit side, with reference to the possible provision of the New Social Employment Insurance (Naspi). Senator Renzi said yesterday that there will be a crisis of unemployment in January and, therefore, we did not say so but the majority. This is not provided for in NADEF. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful because I have not heard of this phenomenon, but January is around the corner. I have listened carefully to all the speeches made by my fellow Members, seeking concreteness in order to grasp that cooperation which is loudly demanded by the majority a little 'all, but the problem remains ideological. We are all aware of the problems and often in identifying them we say the same things: we must act quickly; this time we must really act and not miss this opportunity even in the dramatic nature of the pandemic. [[Applause]] These are the good intentions and words that we also exchange with the majority, but then everything stops there. Unfortunately, I note that they are different recipes between different political views. The ideology of the left - let's say this - fills the mouth with expressions such as gender equality, inclusive growth, green transaction, green economy: they are all very important things, and I absolutely do not deny it, but today we are in an economic emergency and we need a serious push on GDP. The debt-to-GDP ratio will stand at 158 percent, but today the International Monetary Fund makes an estimate of 161 percent. Then we have to raise GDP, then the denominator of the ratio. Unfortunately, GDP is a number and it takes concreteness: the economy must be set in motion. But GDP growth is created by giving momentum to the real economy; employment is created if there are companies that give jobs. It is a recipe we propose, but this majority seems to be deaf to a fiscal shock. Tax pressure in 2020 is expected to be 42.5 per cent and 42.6 per cent in the following years: these are the data from NADEF. But in reality, the tax burden on companies is among the highest in Europe: 60% is even mentioned. The World Bank says that the Italian tax system is inefficient both in the management of refunds and in tax checks. A survey of accountants reported on "Il Sole 24 Ore" estimates that in reality the tax burden, purified by the submerged, reaches over 48 percent. Companies need not so much subsidies, but they need less bureaucracy. Do you realize that large companies produce in Italy - when they still produce in Italy - but declare profits in other European countries? Do we want to keep the profits in Italy? Then there must also be competitiveness in taxation and the competitiveness of Italy is also measured on the speed of action. All the related billing when they see the light? When will they have real repercussions on Italian citizens? Annotated on this NADEF there are so many bills and so many fine words, but words are no longer enough: they must be transformed into measures that actually have a structural and long-term impact on the national economy. Therefore, a thorough review of the tax system is needed to reduce the tax burden on households and businesses. [[Applause]] ; simplification and real deburocratisation; and structural investments ranging from public works to the strengthening of education and research. We have made 100 billion in debt and we have 84 in cash: this is an indication of how cumbersome and complex the mechanism is. Do we want to spend this money? We have the recipes: territorial medicine, basic doctors, telemedicine, investments in health building, support for automotive, tourism, catering and commerce, corporate taxation. Listen to us: we have the concrete recipes. [[Applause.]] 15:43 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u79	I call the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, and to indicate what motion for a resolution he intends to accept on the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u80	Mr President, we welcome the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled to the DEF Update Note. As regards the report to Parliament, we welcome the motion for a resolution No 100 and against the motion for a resolution No 101.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u81	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 1, signed by Senators Marcucci, Perilli, De Petris, Faraone and Unterberger, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it is now in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u84	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document has the merit of seeking a balance between short-term and long-term prospects, placing expansionary policies in relation to debt sustainability through a steady path of reduction of nominal deficit and debt-to-GDP ratio; a subject which is not much talked about, but which instead is of fundamental importance for a country that will not be able to rely forever on the ECB's activism in the markets. It is also a matter of a moral nature towards future generations, to whom we must leave an economy not crushed by the boulder of a debt even greater than what we have inherited. At the same time, it is welcome that estimates are made according to a prudential principle, i.e. without taking into account the effect of the reforms being carried out. However, the goodness of these predictions confronts today with a great unknown, which is called the pandemic trend. We do not know what will happen in the coming days and weeks in Italy, in our home; but we do not even know what will happen at international level, and especially what will be the restrictive measures that will be taken in the world to combat the spread of the virus. It is not a small matter for all those economic sectors that before Covid had the main source of profitability in exports; a great question point to which no one can give answers today, except through a greater link on prevention policies at European level. What we must instead aim to govern is the development of the internal market, starting from the assumption that policies to counter the spread of the virus and policies for the economic recovery of this country are two sides of the same coin. That is why, rather than new restrictions, we need more controls, we need to make continuous calls to the civic sense, always explaining that the fate of the most fragile people, of our elderly, of companies, of jobs passes from the behavior of each of us. For this reason, we must now concentrate aid on those sectors most exposed to the trend of the epidemic curve and the introduction of new restrictions. Today, with the new decree of the President of the Council of Ministers all the economy that revolves around marriages, educational trips, bars, catering activities with early closures, and to all the induced of amateur sport, is strongly damaged. To this are added the problems of tourism, culture and the retail trade: those sectors that, until the coronavirus is defeated, will live on the waterline threshold. That's why we have to archive the season of the Italian cure, the right time of the rain aid, because then we still didn't understand how the consequences of this unknown virus would develop. We now know better where, above all, economic problems are and, therefore, we must aim for action and focus on those areas which, since January, can blow up the employment issue. It is one of the biggest economic concerns, the issue of employment, once the interventions on Cassa Integrazione and Social Shock Absorbers adopted so far have been completed. We must act with the awareness that social cohesion is at stake here. What I want to say is that, in the budget law, the effort of perspective must not lose sight of the immediate and concrete needs, reflecting in this the scheme and the spirit of the Update Note under consideration, in which short and long term, vision and concreteness have the same attention and importance. It is a direct point, as is the point on growth, starting with the reduction in labour costs, to strengthen the purchasing power of families, and the reform of the tax system, which generates greater social equity, and then to the growth fuelled by the increase in investment, both public and private, also as a result of the huge resources that will come to us from the European Union. If, however, we really want Italy to produce growth that can strengthen the rebound of GDP over the next two years, we must win a game: the one against bureaucracy, in order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public administration. Only with a public administration equipped, prepared and fast will it be possible to start all those investments necessary to ensure the desired growth, but also indispensable. As Minister Gualtieri pointed out in the Commission, we need an improvement in the spending capacity and the planning of public administration, but also a constant reduction in rules and procedures and a new pact with the banking system, in order to avoid a premature tightening of credit. We must intervene quickly on these elements of the system, move forward with the path undertaken with the decree simplifications, agilely overcome the criticalities that are emerging on the application of the measures pillar, such as the one that concerns the superbonus to 110 percent. However, we also need a third element, which serves as a link between tax and public administration, namely the reform of justice, which - as we all know - costs Italy a point of GDP every year and is the main obstacle to foreign investment, which we very much need. Radical reforms in these sectors would be the largest economic multiplier that the country has ever seen, to give us a strong base, able to withstand the impact of the pandemic, and above all able to achieve those goals of growth and debt sustainability, of which I mentioned earlier. Also for this, in the coming months, it needs a great investment on the young people of the country. Young people are an extraordinary field of skills, energies and innovative visions, which must be liberated. It is they who suffer the most in this pandemic and we see it also by looking at the numbers of the labour market. Although it has held up until now, we see that youth unemployment is increasing. Young people must be put at the centre of the process of modernising a system, which will soon have the task of driving and carrying forward, in a country that, in fifteen years, will have the problem of three million less people in work. Mr President, I will end by repeating what we said yesterday about the recovery fund: we know that the road will not be easy at all, that there will be difficulties and that the success of the operation comes from the system reforms that require great courage and great decision, but the road taken by the government is the right one. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the Amending Note and vote in favour of the resolution tabled by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u87	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, like every time Senator Salvini intervenes in a Senate session, we are used, almost resigned, to listening to the long list of issues that do not go to the country. Mr President, I have to say that I have also almost got used to playing a little game, that is to go and check after the speech whether you have forgotten anything. So, I'm going over the surgery and I'm listening to individual complaints about everything that's wrong in the country. I must say that he is good, Mr President, because he does not forget one, in the sense that all the intervention was made by listing them all, a bit like the cahier de doléances of the French Revolution, containing all the complaints that were addressed to Parliament before the Revolution; also a bit like a sort of "Green Wave" on traffic and therefore on all the criticalities of movements and cars. From the green shirt he went to the green wave. Next to him, who is now the Al Bano of Italian politics, there is Romina, which is the Meloni: she also delights us every morning with her press releases in the list of complaints and things that are not going. This morning I read the statement that indicated the real theme of the restaurateurs who are penalized by this crisis of bars, gyms and sports activities, which, among other things, with the closure due to the coronavirus and with the winter season at the gates, therefore with greater difficulties, will certainly need other support from the State; there is then the industry of marriage and catering; school trips; travel agencies and hotels in general. It is a long list that I believe in this House that no one can say that they do not share, because objectively, following the pandemic, there are some sectors and certain categories of our country's economy that are suffering more heavily than the crisis and it is therefore necessary to intervene. Then, of course, Salvini also reminded us of the flooding of the North-West, on which there is a need for intervention: all true things. For our part, as I believe on the part of all senators, there is absolute sharing of the pointed and detailed list that the senator has made and that he constantly repeats. Then he closed the speech with a kind of statement to the President of the Council of a love that was not missed and not returned: "Telephone me, because if you called me, I could probably answer you and I could also give you some suggestions on what to do." He said they don't listen to him. When the thread of dialogue between the majority and the opposition is missing, it seems to me to be a bit of a mistake to look for the person responsible, because perhaps the responsibilities are mutual, but I know one thing, Mr President: compared to the two votes we are about to make in this House, there is one that is quite complex and it is a vote that I think we should have the strength, if we really cannot find unity in the content, to turn into a sort of technical vote. I am referring to the deviation, on which there is a need for a qualified majority. There is no majority that is without numbers, and we will prove it even today, but there is an objective condition of difficulty linked to a pandemic that has hit colleagues as well. We had to make mortal leaps to ensure that everyone was present and I believe that this opportunity (it is a further appeal I make to all the opposition forces) and this particular condition could prompt Parliament to draw the first signal of unity and cooperation. This does not mean being part of the majority, it does not mean sharing responsibilities, but it just means that in the face of a division in the country, however, the needs of Italy and Parliament to be able to find numbers on a qualified majority that would otherwise risk losing. So the appeal I make is: do not confine yourselves to the list of things that are not going, but take part with us in the vote on the resolution, because dear Salvini and dear Meloni, if there were not a majority that is organized here with the senators who are also feverish, with negative swabs (I would like to stress this), all that list of things you have told us would not find a solution, because there would be no economic resources to support all those categories that have told us to be in difficulty. So the further appeal I make to the opposition is, at least on the deviation, to vote together; then on NADEF, which is the political measure par excellence, we will split up again. But I believe that this appeal must be met, just as I believe that this necessary institutional cooperation would make us stronger in Europe, too, President. I am glad that Bagnai, who may speak after me, has also converted to Europeanism; he will say that Europe has converted to legism and I will also let him say it, but I am pleased that this conversion has taken place by the League. Only the highlander Paragon is left to speak ill of Europe, and in my opinion this is a value. Today we also read about Giorgetti talking about populists and popularists who become popularists, with jumps we say dialecticals that do not harm the substance. Finally, the country recognizes the indispensable and fundamental role of Europe, which is the most important thing. However, it is necessary, President, that the country be strong in Europe. I say this because we are basking and happy, for example, for the possibility of intervention on state aid. After that, however, if we go to see who benefits most we see that they are the strongest countries, those that have an economy that allows them to support the companies in greater difficulty and therefore the gap between the weaker and stronger economies of the European countries increases. Out of three trillion authorised State aid resources, 52.7% went to Germany and 15.2 to Italy. Our country has collided with the so-called frugal countries for the resources of the recovery fund and we are approaching a confrontation also with the former friends countries of Bagnai who are led by Orban essentially on the issue of the rights that must be linked to the financing. Faced with all these challenges, I believe there is a need to have a strong Italy that, recognizing the important role of Europe, confronts other countries in order to increase its role. We are pleased, Mr President, that we have received these economic resources: 209 billion are so many. It is the first time in history, however, that Italy perceives more than it gives to Europe and I would like this phenomenon to be linked only to the pandemic crisis and not to a structural condition for our country that would thus be condemned to a condition of difficulty and weakness, becoming almost an objective nation. In order to avoid all this we have a duty, President, to make the best use of those resources, because we must get out of this condition of difficulty quickly, even compared to other European countries that are stronger. So it is crucial to understand not only how to spend resources, but above all how to invest them. We have a duty to support the most important projects and to accompany them, not only with economic resources, but also with structural reforms. Reference has been made to the reform of justice and to the deburocratization, all of which are necessary reforms for those resources to be spent and spent well. Other resources must be devoted to active labour policies. For one phase we supported only passive ones such as the Integration Fund, we prevented unemployment and the possibility of dismissal, rightly so. The problem is that now the phase has changed. When we discover the vaccine, it will not improve the economic situation. When we discover the vaccine, we cannot say that the country will be out of the economic emergency, indeed, it will be an even more complicated and delicate phase, so we must intervene in this direction to create work. We need to support companies on training and innovation because our economy will change. We must accompany companies to a conversion of jobs and mission, just as we must intervene on the infrastructure, the bridge or any link that remains, which I believe are indispensable to create wealth. We must think that we invest 54 billion euros in three years for income citizenship and quota 100, while the Bridge costs 4 billion, but it creates wealth that remains because it gives our country a centrality that builds further economy. We are aware, therefore, of what productive expenditure is and of what risks it is to be an expense of assistance that does not generate future wealth. I conclude by saying that we must support, as I think the Government will do, the most fragile and the most penalized by this pandemic, which are people with disabilities, the elderly and even students who have had difficulties in training and I say, finally, that we must use all the tools that are available. The idea that Italy will take 5 billion euros, which are the resources that we would lose in ten years not using the ESM, I cannot tolerate it. With EUR 5 billion in this country you could do a lot: delete the files for swabs, eliminate the fact that there are basic doctors who say that they have 30 vaccines available with 300 requests; we could intervene on medical specializations. Because these 5 billion savings we could have... ( [[The microphone is switched off automatically).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u88	I would ask you to conclude because it has greatly exceeded the time at your disposal and not to solicit the hourly sensitivity of Senator Marcucci.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u89	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I conclude by saying that Italy Viva will vote in favour because it believes in the expansionary policies put in place by the European Union and because we know that this country will be in a position to make the best use of these resources, especially to help the new generations, who are the ones who are lending them to us. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u92	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, let us address this issue related to the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, describing the certainly difficult situation that our country and our economy are going through and clearly highlighting how the measures put in place by the Government, the power of fire according to our President-in-Office of the Council, have proved insufficient. The government and the majority, in fact, have chosen to follow the simplest path - I would call it a shortcut - of rain aid, with a limited impact over time and without any medium and long-term political vision regarding the development of the country. It is clear that this time with this Note we have an advantage over previous years: thanks to the pandemic we have eliminated all the safeguard clauses that have always heavily conditioned, like a boulder, the approval of this Document and the state budget. Compared to this issue, there may be greater serenity with regard to the approach to the budget law, which is on its way and which, in a few days' time, we will begin to talk about, but we always put at the center of our political will what we have always said and, that is, that it was right to protect and compensate income and employment because at this stage it was also necessary, but with the 100 billion that the Government and the majority had at their disposal, it was necessary and necessary to set up a strategy for relaunching the Italian economy. Mr President, yesterday I also appreciated a number of speeches by my colleagues in the majority. Senator Pittella referred to the return of the Stability Pact and was, therefore, somewhat concerned. Senator, we share your concern. In this respect, let us say that we will need a gradual return to this system: we must delay it, because even Europe already thinks that next spring or next summer we can return to the rigidity that has always been there. This will obviously not be possible, however, because in a context of uncertainty, with such a uneven recovery, as the representatives of the Government who have succeeded in this debate have also told us, we cannot undermine all the efforts that have been made in recent months. One question, moreover, arises spontaneously: how will Italy be able to cope with the public debt that has splashed further, reaching percentages now close to 160 percent? Returning to the DEF Update Note is a kind of book of dreams, since inside are inserted as many as 22 connected drafts of law, which, among other things, were present to a large extent also in the DEF Update Note last year and even in that of the previous year referred to 2018. So announce things to do among so many others that you have already announced, as demonstrated by the dozens, even hundreds of implementing decrees that still wait to see the light after the approval of the decrees referred to post-Covid. Then there are also quite bizarre things in this Update Note. I want to remind you of the introduction of the minimum wage, a certainly noble end, but, before asking the private employers, who are in some way suffering from the health and economic emergency that there has been, you begin to adjust the salaries of civil servants, in particular of the Forces of Order and teachers, who receive ridiculous wages from the State that, in this case, is their employer. I do not want to talk about the delegation to tax reform. Last year you announced the reduction of the tax wedge; this year you try, indeed, re-launched on this issue. Then we read numbers that sincerely disorient even a little. In fact, the Update Note says that GDP will fall by 9%, or no, by 10.5%, if the pandemic gets worse. It is said, again, that in 2021 there will be a leap of 6%, or no, of 1.8%, even in this case if there is a worsening of the pandemic. In any case, numbers apart, never as now in the history of the country would need a stable Government, able to guide the processes of development of Italy. As I said, this is a dream book, a sequence of numbers that raise positive predictions and, when needed, lower negative ones. What about the recovery plan funds? How do you think anyone can believe that you have the ability to spend these resources in an overall view, after you have used 100 billion - with minority political forces that, by the way, have somehow authorized these deviations in the previous months - and squandered much of these resources through assistantism, tips and various gifts? To date we cannot see a tangible effect of what you boast of having done for the country. The much announced firepower, about which President Conte has spoken in recent months, has been reduced to a candle consumed, among other things very quickly. You were still good and able to give orders. Tell the Italians that they have to do motor activities with masks and that they can run even without; that they can go to weddings with 30 guests and even indicate how many people can enter our private homes. You are capable of unleashing drones, helicopters against the Italians, also calling our neighbors to act as delators. Woe not to respect the distances, not to respect the rules, but then every day allowed dozens of boats to land undisturbed on the shores of Lampedusa carrying hundreds of crowded immigrants. Clearly, in this case, distances are of no use to anyone. Then there are the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, the last of yesterday, which are said to be used to protect the health of all of us. We then ask ourselves a question. In these weeks in all the Italian municipalities local public transport is in collapse and our children travel crowded on buses. And there is no solution, because, in this case, the Government did not want to transfer money to local authorities for local public transport, perhaps because it thought it would solve such a long-standing and important problem through the use of bicycles or scooters. Colleagues, let's tell you something. In my opinion, the government fears the document under discussion today more than the centre-right might fear it. However, if we in the opposition fear it for what is or is not written, you fear it because you think you do not have the numbers today to vote and be authorized to this further deviation. We do not know how it will end, because we do not have the crystal sphere, but even if you succeed, by a handful of votes, in snatching the approval of the document today, you must accept the truth of the facts that you no longer have the strength to go forward, nor the support of the country, that has never voted this unnatural coalition, born only to hinder the center-right, which is the true majority of this country. Try to appeal, as I have heard from Mr Paragon and many other colleagues today, to our sense of responsibility which you ask of us but which you have never demonstrated in all these months, with the rejection of all the proposals that our leaders and parliamentary groups have tabled. Surely you will be able to breach someone to grab some votes scattered here and there, but be assured that you will not be able to count on Brothers of Italy because we will never give a vote and support to this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u95	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we will vote in favour of the motions for resolutions tabled by the majority. NADEF highlights the extraordinary nature of the phase: 100 billion euros of debt and emergency management. Colleagues, I have listened carefully to the debate and I must say that, perhaps because of my own predisposition, I have found in some part of the speeches by members of the opposition a different attitude. I would like to try to propose a reading that allows us to recognize each other together, at least as far as the emergency is concerned. I have heard a number of colleagues say both yesterday and today that things have been done and EUR 100 billion have not been tracked. Colleagues, on the government you can have the political judgment that you believe, as it is right and legitimate that it is, but can we really think that we have not seen any trace of all this? I am referring to the Cassa Integrazione and the extraordinary interventions (not yet fully satisfied with the Cassa Integrazione). See that the primary objective - I would like us to reason on this and reason - of the interventions contained in the various decrees, starting from the decree cure Italy to the decree liquidity to the decree throw again and finally to the decree August, was to prevent or to prevent the emergency dramatic health a social emergency would settle out of control. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to see that, although not entirely, this objective has been achieved in essence. It is an objective fact and I do not understand why we must insist, certainly for political positioning, but I wonder what it is for. Coming to the second element, many colleagues have told us that the Update Note is the book of dreams, that predictions are random, but is there anyone in the world who is able to make certain predictions about what will happen in the next three years in this world, in the whole planet? Is there anyone here who can stand up and say that? There is no international body that does not put the issue of the pandemic at the centre of reasoning and the risks that the resumption of the pandemic proposes on the economy. I would also like to remind you that even the International Monetary Fund has said that the experiences behind us on lockdowns have not harmed the economy, indeed perhaps - just look at England - from this point of view some other countries may have some second thoughts, as well as the United States, perhaps after November 3. I would now ask you to make an effort not to underestimate the stage we are in, which is a difficult phase, colleagues and colleagues, not taken for granted. In all the countries a discussion is opened and you see the difficulties of the Governments, both the English, the French and the Spanish, to give answers to this resumption of the Covid, which should not be underestimated. I've never used superlative adjectives in relation to the management of Covid and I keep avoiding it. I am concerned because there is a novelty in Italy that concerns the spread throughout the country of the Covid, with characteristics of the health system objectively different. After all, we have been talking about the abyssal distances between the Northern and Southern Health Service for years. The real problem, then, will be how we will take charge today, not in five years, patients on the ground, to avoid bringing patients into intensive therapies. That's the real problem. Perhaps I have to say, in order to provoke, that it will be appropriate to think of temporary health homes to take care of the patients in the territory in the North and the South [[Applause]] , but we cannot underestimate this situation. You can say that it is the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, but it is the Italians who take note that the situation is getting worse and react objectively with fear. Therefore, the call to work together, therefore, is not a request for co-responsibility, as I heard yesterday in relation perhaps to the concern that the objectives we are proposing are not achieved. No. It's an attempt, it's an effort we all have to make to try and hold this country and give it a perspective. From this point of view, NADEF offers a double passage. Colleagues, we started to umbrella and it was right and inevitable, because we didn't know exactly the conditions, but today we have new data. The manufacturing has reacted better, much better. Our problems, in the first place, are on services. Firstly, on tourism, on catering, on trade, on trade fairs, on these services we must continue to do emergency interventions. You call it welfare? No. They aim to keep businesses open, to keep them standing and to build a bridge in a process of change. So, on the one hand, we will have to continue these policies and, on the other, make that qualitative leap that is indispensable. Let us then discuss this qualitative leap. We must start, with the budget, strategically investing, with the resources of the recovery fund, on the start of a process for a new development model and a new social model. We must invest in the outskirts, the different peripheries, territorial and social, on the South in the first place, but also on the internal areas. And we need to invest in the South and the internal areas, first of all to design that new model of development, that ecological transition of the economy. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is a challenge that we can take together even if we do not recognize the same approach to the resolutions. Someone remembered the Marshall Plan, Togliatti, De Gasperi, Nenni, that historic phase. Look, we were in the hardest ideological confrontation. Nobody spared anyone. There were those who ate the children and there were those who denounced those who ate the children, but there was the ability to see ahead and to be on some basic points. That's politics. Politics is not the list of what is wrong. Politics is not destroying what is there. Politics is building the project, at least getting together for a piece of the road. [[Applause]] We do not ask for co-responsibility. We ask you to try, knowing how difficult it is, having to make the reforms, hard and demanding: the fiscal one, that of the public administration. Either we take this step, however, or, otherwise, what we will not do will be to play the role for which the Italian citizens elected us and brought us here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u98	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, today's vote on budgetary deviation and on NADEF this year, indeed and beyond all rhetoric, as we have heard in the debate, are of extraordinary importance, decisive, for the country, for the Italians and for their future. We must cope, as today's data seem to confirm, with the very serious crisis caused by the pandemic; we must take care of and take responsibility for its effects on the concrete lives of people, families and businesses. At the same time we must invest in recovery and plan the future, starting a necessary reform season not only to overcome the problems caused by the pandemic emergency, but also, if not above all, to overcome those limits that, well before Covid, slowed our economy. Today this is possible, because in order to face this challenge the country has the historical opportunity to count on the extraordinary tools that Europe is putting in place, such as the recovery fund, or that it has already put in place, like the resources destined to research or to face unemployment by financing social shock absorbers. Resources for which this Government fought in Europe and which we have achieved with a collective effort of so many countries and forces that have come back to believe in Europe. It's a lot of resources; I mean it without making a joke, but seriously. I think it's good that those who didn't want them today want to help spend them, in the interests of the country. But the use of the huge resources we talked about, even yesterday, cannot but be accompanied by decisive and unavoidable reforms, first of all the fiscal one; a reform that must be fair, reduce the levy and continue on the road that this Government has taken with the cutting of the tax wedge and the reduction of the taxation for the employees. We need to strengthen the fight against tax evasion, which is not an aggressiveness or a fixation of a statist left, but which is necessary today. Today Istat data tells us that the submerged in this country is equal to 190 billion euros, to which we add 19 billion produced by illegal activities. This is a major problem; the fight against tax evasion and avoidance is not a fixation. And again, we need a radical reform of public administration, including by speeding up the rules on digitisation provided for in the simplification decree and opening it to young people. It therefore reformates on the one hand and, on the other, the theme of infrastructure, digital, networks that accelerate and speed up mobility. I think that with this Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document there are the conditions to respond to the three priorities that not only the Government, but the whole country must face. First of all, we all have a duty to help the people and businesses most affected by the pandemic crisis. The duty of all institutions today is to protect those in difficulty and not to leave anyone alone. We need the resources not to interrupt, even leaving an emerging logic, the economic support - it is serious that someone here called it wasteful - that in these months has been guaranteed to many, if not all, in the face of difficulties. We need to reform social shock absorbers and the social protection system, to ensure help to those who have never had it. Until the initiatives - let us not forget - taken by the Government to respond to the pandemic: self-employed workers, VAT matches, small business workers have never been helped and we now say that they must never be left alone again in the face of difficulties, as they have not been left alone in these difficult months. We also need attention to continue to support businesses, those that suffer the most, those sectors that have been most exposed to the crisis. Helping people today also means investing in the health, health and safety of citizens; we must continue to do so by investing, as NADEF says, all the necessary resources. The second priority objective is to relaunch the economy. Anticyclical measures such as the 110% bonus are needed, which will have to be extended beyond the current deadline; territorial cohesion policies are needed, but above all investment is needed by choosing a road. In NADEF the choice is: it is that of sustainable development, green economy, digitalization and the valorization of the talents of this country, those artistic, natural and women, whose contribution there is absolute necessity. First of all, however, it is necessary to invest in research, school and university, the real mines that this country must be able to exploit. The third, and indeed the third, priority is perhaps the least obvious, but also the most necessary, the one that must always remain in the target of every policy we are going to make from now on. The point is that we need an idea of the future, knowing that it is wrong who thinks or even hopes that the post-Covid will restore or restore pre-Covid conditions. It won't be like that. In fact, we will be facing a transition from unspoken outcomes. These months of pandemics will change, indeed they have already changed the way they work. Smart working will encourage companies to reorganise, mobility will change; they will probably change or are already changing the times and habits of life, the behaviour of people; our cities will change, the centers dedicated to services for office workers will no longer hold up as we have known them. We are faced with a transition that either undergoes or governs to improve people's lives, to make them an opportunity, an opportunity for life and work. This is the task of politics and institutions, not only of the Government. We have faced the challenge of being able to look at reality and imagine and realize a better future for the country, in a Europe that has rediscovered itself strongly, has regained its sense of self and, in many ways, has taken up the path that its founders had thought. It is such a great challenge, the one we face, that really sterile polemics and attempts to reduce everything to a theater between majority and opposition are exhausting. For this reason, NADEF also does not serve the government or the majority, but the country and the citizens. The last elections have also given a clear message: citizens demand seriousness, reliability and accountability; they have rewarded all outgoing candidates for this. There is no guaranteed rent of position for those who only know how to shake problems. Today, in the face of the crisis, concrete answers to politics and institutions are being asked. Even with today's act we fully assume this responsibility, only in the interests of the Italians, and we hope the whole Parliament will do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u101	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, six months after the adoption of the Economic and Financial Document, today the Government brings to the attention of the Assembly the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, with the revision of the data and economic forecasts that had been identified at the time. It was the month of April, so we were in the first phase of the health and economic emergency; since then the country has certainly reacted forcefully and the Italians have reacted with their strength to this situation. Today we look at how economic data have changed in this period of time, what they are and what the current situation is. We have crystallized data, on which today we build a present and future proposal for the relaunch of our country. If we look impartially at this data and, above all, read the notes that have been received in all these months by trade associations and institutional bodies, so not by political parties, we can absolutely affirm with force and great intellectual honesty that all the measures that have been implemented in recent months by the Government have not had any of the positive effects hoped for for for the country. Surely the failure of your measures is due to fragmentation: you have done too many since day one. The oppositions and Forza Italia have proposed a single deviation of 100 billion euros [[Applause]] to write together an economic measure that looked at the present and the difficult economic situation of the Italians, but above all traced the future of our country and had four guidelines (families, work, investments and, in particular, infrastructure). Instead the government has chased the critical situation, in an attempt to put pieces to all the holes that have appeared in recent months. Especially in the last days and in the last hours, at such a particular moment, when Italians expect measures in favour of them, what does the Government (or rather, a part of it) do? He appoints as president of Unicredit a member of the Democratic Party of the most important bank. [[Applause]] Instead of thinking about the Italians, we think about occupying the banks. And all this passes with the silence of the Movimento 5 Stars, of the allies who had always made their flag of opposition to the occupation of the banks. Over the last few months there have been too many breaks and welfare interventions: just see the bonuses, which did not have any effect; or rather, they never left, such as the bonus mobility or the bonus holidays, which were absolutely useless and had an absolutely opposite effect. In the face of these measures, little or nothing has been done for investment, which is the real flywheel and the real multiplier of the economy. From NADEF and data - let's read them, which are irrefutable - we can say that the share of investment, in relation to the expenditure that has been and is dedicated to them, is only 5%. In 2021 there are only 45 billion to dedicate to investments: too little to think about the revival of the country and the restart of Italy. [[Applause]] Instead, you base this report entirely on optimistic forecasts, built absolutely on sand, and it is clear and clear that you are also looking at them with the electoral reading key of the next 2023. [[Applause]] The Parliamentary Budget Office also clearly tells us to look closely at this data, so it warns us above all about this report. An important chapter, not only for us, but also for the Italians, concerns the tax burden. Let's read the relevant data: in 2019 it rose to 42.4%; in 2020 to 42.5; in 2021 to 43. It seems like a paradox: at a difficult time for the economy, what does the government do? It increases the tax burden. [[Applause]] It is a fact, as I said, irrefutable. At this particular moment, once again what does the government do? Illudes the Italians, promising a tax reform, and even plans to cut deductions and deductions to many Italian families, hitting with the single cheque especially those of the middle class. Let us say no to these reforms, because we have always been the true advocates of tax reform, putting at the centre the family quotient and families, which are important, in order to recover what must be their value today and above all of the middle class. One thing is important at a time when fiscal reform is promised: there must be the eradication of the past. In these hours and in these days are arriving to the Italians 8,5 million debitorial folders. [[Applause]] How do you promise tax reforms when you ask Italians today to pay taxes, including previous ones? We are the country with the lowest fiscal competitiveness. Not on the second floor is the question that concerns all the draft laws related to NADEF: 22 are foreseen in the Note that now presented; 19 were foreseen in the previous. How many of these connected bills have seen the light today? Absolutely no one. [[Applause]] This is the biggest vice of this government, which we once again highlight. I am referring to the lack of ability you have today to move from flagrant announcements to effective and concrete measures for the country. For this reason and for many other reasons, which we have stated in all these months, we announce on NADEF, therefore on the revision of economic and fiscal estimates, our vote against. Let us now turn to the chapter on budgetary deviation, which is also very important, because in this House you are asking us today for a commitment for an additional 22 billion debt. During these hours the announcements and appeals to the sense of responsibility have multiplied, which are addressed to the opposition by the Government and also by the President of the Council. Well, we have demonstrated this since the first day of this emergency. [[Applause),]] but ours is a sense of responsibility towards the country and the Italians. There we have manifested ourselves and have manifested it with force. Unfortunately, alas, all the requests and proposals we made to the Government have been rejected to the sender; therefore, it has become a surreal dialogue. There's no more deaf than there are those who don't want to hear. Of our existence, of oppositions and of the call to oppositions you remember only when the numbers are dancers. I'm sorry, but this time we don't fall for any deception. I repeat: our responsibility is alone and only towards the country and we do not change our convictions according to the moment. The previous budgetary deviation, alas, has also fallen into oblivion, although in that case there had been a strong appeal of the three leaders of the opposition parties, Berlusconi, Salvini and Meloni ( [[Applause]] , which made concrete proposals to the Government; also on that occasion, they were systematically trashed by the Government. Colleagues, we are not worried about the 22 billion or the debt, we have always said so; what worries us is the clarity that is lacking in this measure. How will you spend the 22 billion? What measures will be taken in favour of Italians? There is absolutely no clarity. The Italians responded to the difficult moment - as I said at the beginning - with great strength and patience; but the moment comes for all when holy patience asks for the account with concrete facts. And here, unfortunately, you're in very bad shape. It is time to wake up and look at the real country that is out here and that, alas, you do not know at all. On the deviation from the Parliamentary Group Forza Italia there will be no aid. I therefore call for an abstention vote. Since in the past you have repeatedly invited us to the sense of responsibility, and then leave us on the threshold of the door, once the time has come to look together at the concrete proposals, we now make the autonomous choice to stay on this side, to look at the window, to see if today in the Chamber you have the numbers to move forward and then look at the future of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u104	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let me start with the words and phrases I have heard in the debate: cooperation; unity; responsibility; participation in solutions; let us put ourselves together to make a piece of the way. It may be that the League or someone in the center-right have made a mistake, until now: we cannot always think of doing everything right and that the faults are only of others. However, let us make a few comments, so we all realize whether what we have done so far is wrong or not. We are in fact in a particular situation, in which, for the cases of positivity - of course we are sorry - of some of our colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars or someone else, there was a risk that there would not be the famous 161 votes in favour of the deviation of the budget (it is about 21 or 22 billion euros, from what appears to us in the Note). This could really have been an opportunity for the majority, not having the numbers, perhaps even being a little forced, to enter into dialogue with the opposition. I say this because there are people in this House who I respect, with whom often and willingly, even behind the scenes, we debate and talk, trying to find common solutions. I address them above all, without naming them, so we understand each other. This really could have been an opportunity to ask the opposition whether, in the face of these EUR 22 billion, there was a figure or a measure on which it was particularly keen or that it had any idea that it could work at this time of difficulty, to make a commitment to include it in the next budgetary manoeuvre. This attitude would certainly have been responsible for the whole centre-right, in the face of the commitment to include a measure wanted by the centre-right in the next budgetary manoeuvre (in short: to write the next budget together!). This attitude, in our view, would have been a witness to the willingness to cooperate on the part of the Government. [[Applause]] We note that, on the other hand, the commitment of the majority and the government was to look for those responsible, who could bring the majority to more than 161 votes. Then maybe, I repeat, we made a mistake. The other question concerns the so-called August decree (so let's go a little back in time). On a €25 billion decree, €250 million were made available for Parliament's decision, of which only 25 million were put in the availability of proposals made by minorities, to find solutions. All right, these are many chapters put together, however, if I had to compare the 25 billion euros of the decree-law with the 25 million for minority proposals, the lack of cooperation perhaps is not entirely the fault of the minority. [[Applause]] I see Senator Vasco Errani smiling: evidently this reasoning is in place. How many times have we asked not to use the unilateral instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers and instead we have seen decrees of this kind, decrees-laws always approved with forced recourse to the vote of confidence, and delegated laws! The colleague of the Gruppo Fratelli d'Italia, just this morning, questioned in her speech: all delegated laws! In short, Parliament is a little out of date, but I repeat that we may have been wrong. That is not all, because the will to cooperate and to unite the country is also seen by the actions that the Government carries out. The first objective of the Government, just installed, was to cancel the flat tax up to 100,000 euros and to modify that up to 65,000 euros, putting new stakes, for VAT matches, artisans and professionals. The second act, which we saw a few days ago, was to delete the Salvini decrees. The third act - we will see it shortly and you have already announced it - is that 100 is the end of his adventure. Let me understand, if the government cancels everything that the League has done in the previous one, in your opinion it sends a relaxing signal, indicating the will to collaborate, or to complete closure, of the series: do we do what we want and do not care about the minority? If we are to unite the country, we must also take a cultural path that goes in this direction. If the logic is "cancellare Salvini" then it is really difficult to think that it can be found even for a piece of the way, Senator Errani, a bit of convergence. Maybe we are wrong (we leave it to the perception of the people who are at home), but it seems to us that the President of the Count Council and this Government have some problems about the will not to cooperate, but - I repeat - maybe we have mistaken everything and we had to change attitude. On the Update Note of the Document of Economics and Finance, just to enter the merit of the explanation of vote (but this premise on the collaboration was all there), we found a definitely negative element: apart from the predictions of the notes of update of the Document of Economics and Finance - Senator Monti knows well - have never taken us in the last fifteen years, because reality has produced completely different data (so we could also take it a bit lightly); looking at what is written, however, we thought that, in a phase of recession and difficulties like this, the objective of the Government and the majority, collaborating with the opposition, was to reduce taxes to companies and families to meet them. In short, we are sorry to read so much in the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document, in the table on page 59, that the tax pressure next year will grow by 0.1 percent (from 42.4 to 42.5), in 2021 it will be even 43 percent, then go back in 2022 and 2023, to 42.6 so recording in the five-year period only a 0.1 more. However, it is an objective fact: according to your Update Note of the Economy and Finance Document, taxes will increase. That's what you wrote. [[Applause]] Is that the answer? I would remind you that, when we were in the government, Mr Marattin enjoyed making television broadcasts, saying: here is the Government, on the Note it says that the tax burden increases. He went to all the broadcasts, with his way of doing definitely very determined. But what would Italy Viva and Mr Marattin say today, since you are in the government and the taxes are increasing you, at such a difficult and delicate stage? [[Applause]] A party, the one embodied by former Council President Matteo Renzi, who was to be close to companies, families and territories, votes an update note that goes exactly in the opposite direction. Then, let's be clear: compared to the forecasts, someone thought that if the layoffs were to end, a million people would risk being out of work. That's the entrepreneurial feeling. Have you put Naspi's money that you will have to pay for two years for this million jobs, or have you not included in the forecasts this expenditure that the state will face? [[Applause]] The Naspi has been abolished, there is and must be paid, among other things for at least two years. Yet there is not in the Update Note, just as there are no effects of the new decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that you have just put in place, of what will happen and the situation of uncertainty that will occur: many locals today suffer a lockdown, the night ones will remain closed you do not know until, others will close before; there will be less revenue and there are people who risk the job. All these forecasts are not included in the Note. How do we vote in favour of an Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document that does not take into account these fundamental aspects for the future of the country? These are subjects on which, in our opinion, a clear answer must be given. Then, as has been said before, we are certainly responsible people, so we will not vote against the deviation, but we will abstain. We would have preferred to use the money from the deviation to reduce taxation. This political agreement could be made between the majority and the minority, also because, we are telling you now, in the situation of uncertainty we face in the future, it is also unwise for the majority to maintain this attitude of total exclusion of the minority. A little more political intelligence might be useful for your future too, but I don't know if you'll understand it; rather, I doubt it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u107	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I would like to confirm the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group on the DEF Update Note and the deviation, as presented by the Government. I would like to heart, as far as possible, my colleagues in the opposition, following the testimony of the Parent Company and President Romeo, that there may be dangers for workers from here to the end of the year. In fact, I would like to remind them and President Romeo that there is and has been confirmed until the end of the year: so, luckily, we should not have any problems on this issue and I really would like to hearten everyone. [[Applause]] It is useless to add alarm to the already emerging situation that we are living day by day. We have now read today's figure: 7.322 new cases. It is very sad and must also make us think about how to continue our work in Parliament, because indeed, if there is no cohesion, cooperation and union, we will hardly be able to do anything useful for the country, while there really would be a great need for it. The situation is very sad. Surely no one this summer was in a position to say that we had left the virus behind. He has returned, unfortunately, and with some energy, that we must try to do everything we can to fight. Well, yesterday's data show a positive one, 1,428 people healed, which must comfort us a little. Among other things, I would like to welcome the two colleagues who had fallen ill in recent weeks, Francesco Mollame and Marco Croatti, who have recovered and returned to work among us; they also had the intellectual intelligence and honesty to warn us immediately, when they realized they were sick, so that they put everyone in the position to run to the shelter, if necessary. This must make us reflect on the fact that the situation is still critical, but fortunately some data tell us that things are not so bad. I am referring to those relating to public debt and the fact that in this situation we are able to issue them at rates that are actually advantageous compared to the past. We have to say that this happens thanks to the ECB, which allows us to buy many Italian government bonds and, fortunately, to adjust our rates to those of other countries, which, although in our condition, in recent months and years had enjoyed much more advantageous rates, while we suffered, for having much higher rates, which weighed down our economy. Now we are almost completely aligned and this is definitely a great advantage to look to the future. Having said that, however, we must recognise that this is the DEF Update Note: it is one thing, but it is not the possibility for the Government and Parliament to return to the Chamber if there is a need to take other measures to deal with the emergency. Mr Errani said earlier: no one has the crystal ball and can actually say how much resources will be needed next year, but let us set the target of at least 7% debt. Well we hope to succeed, with this, to do everything. If that is not enough, we will return to this House and, as we have done for other measures, we will vote on another deviation. We have done so and we have succeeded in doing great things with the decree of April, with the decree of growth and with the decree of August. We will continue along this path, because we have been able to benefit many families and companies. Of course, perhaps someone has fallen behind and we should actually focus on this, because every time we vary a maneuver, there is always someone who unfortunately remains excluded. Well, we should focus more, and this is the prayer I make to the Government: to be able to create as universal a measure as possible, so as to understand everyone. I am referring to the various bonuses and the various measures. Unfortunately, every now and then, there is someone who is unhappy, but we have to intervene now, because the possibilities are there: we have the budget law before us and, therefore, we try to actually do things that are needed. As far as the sectors that have been left behind are concerned, I must immediately think of tourism, the entertainment industry, dance halls, restaurants, bars and pubs. These activities are more affected by restrictions and closures. Therefore, for them we must do something truly universal, which can give support, because we cannot lose the tourism industry, which produces 17% of GDP. Indeed, something more has to be done from this point of view and I am sure that our Government will do so, will bring it to the House and we will vote for it. With regard to other activities, such as commercial ones, and to shops - I said this last time, when I spoke here in this House - something more needs to be done. One of the biggest problems is rent. We must try to do everything possible to ensure that these activities are allowed to continue and, therefore, if they need an integration to pay the rent, it must be guaranteed universally, also in this case, depending on the losses they have suffered. Once and for all, why don't we establish that the state puts a part in it, a part continues to pay the tenant and a third part puts the owner? ( [[Applause]] ). Let's establish it once and for all, so we can slowly return to a normal situation. We can't help but think about those who are worse: the disabled, the care givers and their families. ( [[Applause]] ). These are the people we have to refer to. In the next budget law, please do everything you can to do something for these families, because they are the people who have suffered most from lockdown isolation, so we have to do absolutely something for them. Let's go further and think about how much we have to do for the production sectors that are left behind, to try in small steps to give satisfaction to everyone. In this House, just over the past few hours, something positive has happened for everyone, from a spiritual point of view: with the contribution of everyone we have managed to build a report on the Next Generation EU. Everyone's been able to give their address to the government. This is the way in which we must be able to move forward, that is by participating in the choices and by making the government understand in small steps what is to be done. We did it with the Next generation EU and we will continue to do it, because it will be a plan to keep an eye on. We'll do it with everyone's contribution. Mr President, I am also referring here to families that are worse off. I have already said this yesterday in this House and I repeat this: families in difficulty are always many and unfortunately I think that they will continue to increase if this remains the case. We have to do something for them. Law No. 3 of 2012 on over-indebtedness can be improved with some things that we have already approved in the corporate crisis code, which facilitates procedures for over-indebtedness. We must anticipate them, because they will come into force in August 2021: we now anticipate the rules on over-indebtedness for families and we will really be able to support many of them. ( [[Applause).]] I confirm the vote in favour of the deviation and NADEF for 2021. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u108	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. Motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. The vote on the motions for resolutions will therefore take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause]] It therefore precludes the motion for a resolution No 101, tabled by Senators Ciriani, Bernini and Romeo. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1 to the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, accepted by the Government, presented by Senators Marcucci, Perilli, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. I note that no amendments have been tabled to this motion for a resolution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] It therefore precludes the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, a proposal for a preliminary question concerning the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 125 of 7 October 2020 concerning the extension of the enforcement measures of the Covid-19 has been received. The resolution on the proposal will be on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, Thursday 15 October 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u112	Colleagues, please, do not create assemblies. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the flood of 2 October has wiped out some sections of a road that is fundamental for the connection between Italy and France: the state road 20 of the Colle di Tenda. Some sections of the road are completely unworkable and, unfortunately, the tunnel has also been severely damaged. Those 3,182 metres of gallery, which since 1882 connect the Vermenagna Valley to the Roya Valley (which in that period, I remember, was still Italian), are still unworkable. The bad weather also took about fifty meters of the road that goes down to France, a few meters from the entrance of the tunnel. In place of the asphalt there is now a chasm and the hairpins to descend are at risk of dangerous and dramatic collapses. On the Italian side mud and debris have made the construction site in progress unworkable for the construction of the second tube of the tunnel of the Tent: a stop that will make to slide again who knows for how long, the end of the works for the doubling previewed for the half of 2024. I recall that this tunnel had been designed since 31 July 2001. It's been exactly 20 years and this second rod hasn't been built yet. So let's refer to what's a problem... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u113	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u114	Please, Senator Bergesio. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Meanwhile, in 2017 five French mayors banned the traffic of vehicles above 19 tons in the French municipalities, thus leading to a unilateral blockade towards the Italian carriers and companies that is added to the damage of recent times due to the flood of 2 October last. This ban is still in progress, with the consequence that logistics must pass through the highway or other packages that are not at all comfortable. We ask the President of the Count Council, the Minister De Micheli and the ANAS to address immediately this huge road problem that is affecting negatively on the enterprises, the families, the transports, the logistics and the tourism of the Regions Piemonte and Liguria. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, there are too many gatherings in this House. That's not possible. Please, Senator Bergesio. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is an endless story, which needs an immediate solution. In the light, then, of these fantastic resources that should come, please, as of now, allocate what is needed to this very important artery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u117	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, my speech is aimed at denouncing an intricate affair concerning the reorganization of the activities of the Auchan Group through the acquisition by Conad. It is a story that has been enriched by a new worrying chapter that is coming to a climax precisely these days and that risks falling into the general disinterest. Little is said, in fact, and nothing is known of the fate of 127 employees of the cooperative General solution service, with registered office in Lavello, become - despite them - a collateral damage of the million-dollar game of supermarkets that for months holds with breath suspended thousands of workers in our country. The next 30 October will expire their contract, that the Lucana company had tied to double thread with the activity of handling of the goods carried out on behalf of the French giant. The point is precisely this: the need to clarify within the complicated procurement and subcontracting system that has generated those orders that are about to fail. Only in this way will it be possible for the relevant ministries and the social partners to outline the correct, but above all timely, protection procedures to be launched for the benefit of Lavello's employees and especially their families. I hope, therefore, that the crisis table opened by the Ministry of Economic Development will take charge already in the next few hours (I do not say in the next few days, but precisely in the next few hours) of the situation, starting a transparent operation that avoids the risk of creating blind corners where the workers of the induced would find themselves alone and without any way out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u118	Colleagues, please, I invite you not to create assemblies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u121	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank, even if late, with emotion and pride as an Italian citizen, our President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella for the certificate of honour of Alfiere della Repubblica, who wished to confer, on a proposal from the President of the Italian Society of Pediatrics, Professor Villani, to the young Sebastiano Mattia Indorato, sixteen years old. The prestigious honour is recognized by the Head of State to young people who have distinguished themselves for courageous and supportive actions and who represent positive models of citizenship. Mattia, Sicilian of the Province of Caltanissetta, has for years taken care of the younger brother seriously ill because she has a rare disease, a serious form of epileptic encephalopathy, that needs intensive care and continuous assistance, showing extreme availability and generosity out of the ordinary in helping her family in difficulty to face the serious illness and its difficult, complex and daily management, all with deep dedication, day after day, often with silent renunciations to the normal recreational and leisure activities, like the dates with friends, proper of a teenager. This recognition ideally represents a certificate of symbolic thanks extended to all the brothers and sisters of the many families that, like that of Matthias, live and live together with the problem of disability, managing daily to guarantee, despite enormous difficulties, the best quality of life for the most fragile citizens of our country. [[Applause]] Mattia dedicated to them, with a spirit of altruism and solidarity, the honour received, simply declaring: I would like to do something to help other people who are in the same situation as my family. It is my duty to thank publicly and on behalf of the whole of the Mattia Assembly and the many young people like him. They represent for our country the living and true strength of our present and the hope of our future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-265.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 15 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.22.
