ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 13.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u3	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Gino Rossi Vairo School in Agropoli, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u4	The next item is the holding of questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u6	Senator Zuliani, first you must announce to the Presidency what you are asking to intervene on. Then I'll decide whether or not to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u7	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I am a member of the 5th Budget Committee, which is currently being convened. I wonder if it is possible for the Commission to work... Yesterday, the Conference of Leaders authorised the Commissions to continue their work today, given the importance and also the urgency of the expiry of certain measures. ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u8	The first question will be asked 3-01080 on the environmental impact of the refinery in Milazzo. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u9	Mr President, Senator Floridia, as regards the "overall review" procedure, concluded by Ministerial Decree No 172 of 11 May 2018, the first session of the Conference of Services for the issuance of the Integrated Environmental Authorisation (IAA) measure, convened at the end of the investigation phase, was held on 19 December 2017, for the discussion of the final investigative opinion given by the competent AIA-IPPC Commission. During the session, the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, in order to acquire the health and public health requirements, as provided for in the environmental code, considered it necessary to update the work of the conference, in order to allow the competent municipalities of Milazzo and San Filippo del Mela to formulate more precise prescriptions than those expressed in a general way during the session. Acquired these precise determinations, the Ministry invited the commission of inquiry to prepare a proposal for modification of its investigative opinion, in order to make it consistent with the above precise determinations. During the next session of 14 March 2018, the manager and the mayor of the city of Milazzo informed the conference on the actions taken also with the extraordinary commissioner of the Municipality of San Filippo del Mela, aimed at identifying an agreement, taking into account the critical health issues, in order to put in place shared actions for the acquisition of further and more up-to-date data on the environmental and health context of the area concerned. In the final conference, held on 28 March 2018, the manager and the mayor of the City of Milazzo deposited an agreement signed by them, with the aim of designing and conducting studies of environmental epidemiology, intended for the assessment of the state of health of the populations living in the valley of the Apple. Subsequently also the extraordinary commissioner of the Municipality of San Filippo del Mela and the metropolitan mayor of the city of Messina have signed the said agreement. With regard to the partial review procedure initiated on 20 February 2019, it is recalled that, with a resolution of 18 July 2018, the Region of Sicily adopted the new regional air quality protection plan, containing, among other things, some measures to reduce industrial emissions aimed at achieving air quality standards. Consequently, in January 2019 the Region requested the review of the AIA of the refinery in Milazzo and other installations of state competence, in order to adapt them to the new conditions of the aforementioned plan. In the context of the control activities carried out on the installation, the Ministry, acquired the results of the checks carried out by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) in April 2018, in particular with regard to the management of the event took place on 7 March 2018, adopted an act of caution to limit the environmental consequences and prevent any further accidents or unforeseen events. The Ministry then acquired the documentation of the Regional Technical Committee (CTR) for Sicily, reporting the results of the activities carried out in the field of major accident checks. Subsequently, on 20 February 2019, the Ministry issued a note providing for the partial review of the AIA issued to the refinery in order to adjust the prescriptive framework following the adoption of the new regional air quality protection plan, as well as for the verification of the adequacy of the requirements related to the management of the ageing of storage tanks and soil pollution, also in the light of what emerged during the AIA inspection activities and the activities of the Regional Technical Committee for Sicily, as a result of the found loss of hydrocarbon product in a tank of the installation following the adoption of the plan. Following the initiation of the partial review procedure and the acquisition of the operator's documentation necessary to proceed, transmitted in April 2019, the Ministry has ordered the initiation of the investigation activities. In order to make more effective the phase of adaptation of the tanks and their containment basins, with certain times, the head of Cabinet of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has represented to the head of Cabinet of the Minister of the Interior the necessity of a effective participation of the Regional Technical Committee in the investigation of AIA review, in consideration of the problems brought to light by ISPRA relative to the realization of the double funds of the tanks and the relative containment basins. The abovementioned note was found to be favorable by the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, the investigative activities, including inspections, are still under way. Moreover, the additional documentation submitted by the operator on the waterproofing adjustments of reservoirs has recently been acquired. The Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea is working to conclude the partial review procedure as quickly as possible. In this process, the competent authority on the prevention of major accident risk (the CTR) is involved not only through the request for participation in the Conference of Services, but also with the direct involvement in the activities of the AIA-IPPC Commission. By accepting the Ministry of the Interior's reply note, all the documentation, and in particular the final investigative opinion of the AIA-IPPC commission, will be addressed in good time to the CTR for the expression of the relative path that harmonizes the proposals of AIA prescriptions with those Seveso for greater environmental protection. With regard to the establishment of limit values as restrictive as possible for emissions into the atmosphere, it is recalled that the definition of new emission limits, including those for volatile organic compounds, in the light of the new elements acquired after the release of the ALA 2018, can only take place at the conclusion of the ongoing investigation. Finally, with regard to the assessment of the restrictive regime resulting from the approval and adoption of the landscape plan within the 9 of the Province of Messina, it is recalled that the above plan is explicitly referred to in the final investigation opinion annexed to Decree AIA No 172 of 11 May 2018. Moreover, all stakeholders, with particular reference to regional and local representatives, will be able to report on the state of play of this recovery plan and, where appropriate, propose specific requirements to be included in the AIA during the ongoing investigation of the process and subsequent activities of the Conference of Services. Finally, it should be noted that the Higher Institute of Health, in addition to carrying out through the National Epidemiological Study of the territories and settlements exposed to pollution risk (SENTIERI) periodic updates on the state of health of the resident population on the site of Milazzo, is carrying out a specific study of cohorts of the former workers of the factory of asbestos artifacts Sacelit, located in the Municipality of San Filippo del Mela, included in the SIN-Milazzo.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u12	Floridia (M5S). I thank the Government, in the person of Undersecretary Morassut, for the answer and I can say that I am very satisfied for several reasons. First of all, I am happy that the procedure in question is being completed and I am certainly satisfied because it is not the first time that we talk about the Apple Valley and the criticalities of that area regarding some impacting companies that in the past have done, alas, good and bad weather on the health of citizens and the Government never as in the last two years has dedicated itself to facing this reality. I am also satisfied because having reopened the AIA a short time after the last authorization issued was not at all obvious nor simple, but it was definitely necessary, not only given the regional law on air quality, but also by virtue of the study SENTIERI, which continues to highlight in this area significant critical for human health. Therefore, I am sure that they will achieve much more stringent measures on emissions into the atmosphere. Finally, I am satisfied because finally the refinery, which, I remember, has been wary of by the Ministry of the environment for the found loss of hydrocarbon product, will be imposed with certain times the realization, finally, of the double funds of the tanks and the relative reservoirs of containment. The environment, the Sicilian subsoil and the sea heartily thank you. I am satisfied because you yourself have also mentioned the requirements of the Landscape Plan, which can and will have to be reported by local and regional representatives at the Conference and I hope they will. Thank you, because knowing also that further epidemiological studies of observation and analysis are being carried out also on the former workers of the factory of asbestos artifacts, always falling in that area, confirms the Government's attention to the right to the health of citizens and to respect for the environment. To conclude, I would like to point out, in the face of so much attention to the needs of the citizens, the fact that the Sicilian refineries sometimes, in spite of the environmental code, have allowed themselves not to present part of the documentation required for the renewal of the AIA and to allow the comments of the citizens themselves: I hope that this era will end soon. Just as the era in which the offices of Mise, in the past, were sent to the Conferences of the services to protect the refineries, was over, without any due and necessary insights. It is now clear that we are working to combat climate change, but what does that mean? It means that we have decided to move towards sustainable development, towards renewable and clean sources, which means that we want to get out of the hydrocarbon age as soon as possible, I hope it means that the ecological era has begun. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u13	Following are questions 3-00768 and 3-00978 on the implementation of Law No 112 of 2016 on assistance to disabled persons without family support. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u14	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the questions I am presenting are both about the application of Law No 112 of 2016 in favour of persons with disabilities without family support, so I will give them a joint answer. Law No 112 of 2016 should be included in the regulatory framework on the rights of persons with disabilities, in implementation of the principles set out in the Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In this regard, I would like to stress that the issue of disability is constantly at the attention of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This government adopted the first National Plan for non-self-sufficiency, starting a gradual path of defining the essential levels of performance. I would also like to emphasise that social policy issues, including interventions in favour of people with disabilities, are also among the key points of the act of guidance for the identification of policy priorities for 2020 recently adopted by the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. I would also point out that the programming of social policy interventions is exclusively a regional competence, without prejudice to the definition of the essential levels of benefits, which remains at the head of the State while the management is entrusted to the municipalities. In this regard, it cannot fail to bear in mind that this framework of constitutional competences acts on a scenario of extreme heterogeneity of interventions, in particular the interventions provided for by Law No 112 of 2016, must emphasize their highly innovative character and the need - for their concrete realization - for a broad involvement of all the actors concerned. Having said that, with specific reference to the questions asked by the interrogators, I would like to point out that the second report to Parliament on the implementation of the law in question has been sent to the Chambers; therefore, from the beginning it is possible to carry out a broader reflection on the modalities of implementation of law n. 112 of 2016, also in order to enhance the good practices present in some territorial realities. The report shows that the total number of beneficiaries at 31 December 2018 was just under 6,000, and that Lombardy is the region with the largest number of beneficiaries (about 1,600): more than a quarter of the national total. In terms of the impact on the resident population, instead, Piedmont and Emilia-Romagna are the regions with the highest values: more than twice the national average (57 and 46 beneficiaries per 10,000 residents respectively). With regard to the content and policy guidelines presented by the Regions, it appears that the resources are mainly allocated for the interventions envisaged in the personalized projects. Entering into a greater detail regarding the individual types of intervention, the area on which the greater amount of resources is programmed is that of the activities in support of homelessness for about 37 percent of the national total. However, the planned routes for leaving the family of origin or for deinstitutionalisation with a quota of just under 30% remain financially relevant. In the light of the data presented, the Ministry will continue to participate actively with the Regions and the ANCI, continuing the experiences already activated, with a view to an improvement also in the light of the results of the monitoring highlighted in the report object of this act. Finally, I would like to stress that this Government, with the 2020 budget law, has increased the budget of the so-called Fund after us by EUR 2 million for 2020. Therefore, the resources of the fund are equal to €58.1 million in current legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u17	IORI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for this reply which really fills me with satisfaction because it takes into account the main anxiety that parents of children with serious disabilities are experiencing as they approach their elderly age. Since the lives of people with disabilities have been prolonged, parents obviously get older and often do not have parental networks that can take care of their children. So, his words are of great comfort. It is very comforting to know that there has been an economic investment but also and above all, in my opinion, that attention will be focused on the quality of innovation. People with disabilities, however very serious, always have a margin in which you can plan a possibility of relationship, made even of looks or caresses, so it is very important that you continue the activity of the Regions that - I know very well - are the main but it is also important the reference you made, Undersecretary, to the number of beneficiaries (about 6,000) and to the 2 million invested. Above all I am satisfied with the idea that there is a monitoring because, compared to a peculiarity of gravity but also of diversity, unfortunately we tend to approve talking about disabled people, while each of them is a different person, with a particular history and a different pathology, so it needs an absolutely personalized intervention. For this reason I find the culture of homeliness and taking care of this aspect to allow the relationship with the family and home environment very important. Even the sunlight beating at the same time in a certain direction, which would seem a detail, in reality is not at all. I therefore stress the importance of de-institutionalisation. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply, for which I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u20	Mr Alfieri (PD). I would just like to add, in addition to what Mr Iori has already said, that we are pleased to record how the information that had been requested was provided, partly because it is two questions that go back to seven and ten months, respectively, when the previous Government was still standing. Therefore, the act of direction, on the one hand, and the integration of resources into such an important law, on the other hand, but above all the fact that the report on the state of implementation of the law has arrived, are certainly steps forward. In the question we also asked what measures the Government intends to put in place, precisely because the report reports of a state of application of the rules of implementation of the law on the After us differentiated from Region to Region. It is true that the Government has the task of maintaining the essential levels of assistance in accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution, the Regions have the part of programming and the municipalities the one of implementation, but it is also the task of the Government to put in place measures aimed at mitigating the differences, often substantial, between Regions and Regions on such a delicate side, on which we always need new resources. Above all, it is necessary to be able to build a regional and municipal system within those that were the area plans, which build a network of social protection and support for families. So it's definitely a step forward. Well, the report on the state of implementation of the law, but on this issue we must be careful to ensure that respect for those rights and prerogatives that we have written in the Constitution are not just a wish, but become a reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u21	Following is the question 3-01039 on cases of anomaly in the use of the bonus for teachers. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Member, Senator Drago, on a number of cases reported of a distorted use of the Teacher's Charter, the Ministry of Education has readily activated, together with the Finance Guard, to modify some aspects - regulation and technical - of the dedicated platform, in order to prevent any illegality and to prosecute, even criminally, possible irregularities. I can assure you that the Dicastery will put in place all the necessary measures to prevent illicit use of this instrument and to ensure the correct use of public resources, as provided for in the current legislation. Having said that, I would like to remind you that the so-called Teacher's Charter is a measure which provides for the allocation of EUR 500 for each teaching staff in service in order to support their updating and continuing training and to enhance their professional skills. Well, we have reached the fourth school year of use of the same and for this reason I think it is important to report some data that show that there has been a growth in spending especially on areas related to professional development and updating, I am referring, in particular, to training courses and the purchase of books. More in detail, the funds used by teachers for professional development, covering training courses, certifications and the purchase of books, total: in the school year 2016-2017 to about 55 million euros, equal to 21.51 percent of the funds used; in the school year 2017-2018 to about 92 million euros, equal to 26.19 percent of the funds used; in the school year 2018-2019 to 94 million euros, equal to 29.98 percent of the funds used; in the current school year 2019-2020 (unconsolidated data) to about 43 million euros. I should like to conclude by pointing out, with reference to the initiatives to be taken in order to allocate the teacher's training card to specific topics such as specific learning disorders, as the honourable Member wished, that, under current legislation, the training activities are defined by the individual educational institutions in their autonomy and in line with the three-year plan of training provision, as well as with the results resulting from the improvement plans of the school institutions, on the basis of the national priorities set out in the national training plan, which pays more and more attention to the issue of inclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u25	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Di Piazza. I am satisfied in part with the answer, for some of the issues I will now put forward. First of all, we are talking about a 'payer', because to argue that they are going to take action to prevent illicit use is a good thing, in the sense that we have taken note of the problem, but we do not indicate how to intervene, so we will see. Moreover, in the reference that is rightly made to the percentages of use of the amounts of the teacher's card it emerges that the real use in terms of professional development and training courses, on average, from 2016 to today, is around 27 percent. It seems to me to be a very low percentage of the target that was to be achieved, given that the nomenclature of the paper is precisely that of electronic paper for updating and training. The reply refers to existing legislation. I thank the Undersecretary for referring also to specific learning disorders, a battlehorse of mine that I am trying to carry on with other colleagues almost from the beginning of the legislature. However, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that our Republic is a parliamentary, non-governmental Republic: there are draft laws on this subject and it should be taken into account in order to strengthen the training of teachers, which is, among other things, a right but also a duty. Therefore, with simplicity, for the charge that I put on, I feel like proposing solutions. Bonuses could be eliminated, such as the teacher's card, the cultural bonus, the reading bonus and others, because, I repeat and stress again, we must ensure rights, but also obligations, including the duty of continuing training, and possibly allocate the relative quotas to a revisitation of the national collective agreement of the school sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u26	Following is question 3-00881 on the provisions concerning the bluefin tuna fishing year for 2019. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it should be pointed out that under Article 16i of Law No 123 of 2017 - with effect from the year 2018 - additional quotas for bluefin tuna are to be allocated, by decree of the Minister, all fixed trap plants listed in Annex C to the Ministerial Decree of 17 April 2015. In the administrative mores related to the adoption of the aforementioned ministerial measure, in April 2019, this Administration - in order to allow the formal start of the fishing campaign - in compliance with the current supranational regulations of the sector, has, on a transitional basis, governed the various authorized sectors, including that of the fixed trap. This measure, in fact, has only ensured - harmoniously to the aforementioned norm of law - that all the authorized plants for 2019 (including Cala Vinagra and Favignara) could access - albeit in an undivided way - the additional quota (i.e. 84,69 tons), previewed for the field in question, regarding the year 2017. Therefore, with subsequent ministerial decree n. 235 of 30 May 2019, this Administration, in formalizing pursuant to Law n. 123 of 2017 the list of plants authorized for 2019, intended further to stabilize the sector in question - in this sense the then political authority was expressed by means of press - assigning to the new plants (Cala Vinagra and Favignara) a share of capture on the additional quota. The latter - it should be pointed out - is the ceiling on which, according to law, catches of these new plants can be insisted. For this reason, the historical reference to the three-year period 2015-2016-2017 is legitimate, in order to determine the average catch levels, since - harmoniously with Law No 123 of 2017 - on the quota allocated to the sector up to the year 2017, only the three plants listed in the first part of Annex C to the aforementioned Ministerial Decree of 17 April 2015 can insist. Moreover, the Favignara plant has not been operational since 2008, i.e. even before the significant reductions in fishing capacity then imposed in 2010-2011 at supranational level. From the factual point of view, it must also be noted that, until the date of adoption of the aforementioned ministerial decree n. 235 of 2019, that is 30 May of the same last year, the plant of Favignara has realized a very low level of catches, with several cases of daily declarations pairs to zero.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u30	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr Undersecretary, thank you for your reply, but I would like to point out that it is Favignana, with letter n, and not Favignara. I regret to have to tell you that your answer did not convince me, first of all because it was too late. Allow me to tell you that I find it unacceptable that the government should allow almost a year to pass before giving an answer to a question. The inspection union is an instrument of vital importance to ensure that our role as parliamentarians is exercised to the best possible extent, by enhancing the principle of representation which is at the basis of the mandate conferred on us by the citizens. Questions are a means of controlling the government's action by a Parliament which is increasingly mortified by your pressure on the debate, by matters of trust, by urgent decisions, always or often completely unmotivated. That is why the Government has every right and duty to respond within a reasonable time. I could argue that in these two years we have witnessed the succession of two governments, but the President of the Council, the Undersecretary, has always remained the same; he has presented himself by defining himself as a lawyer for the people and for this reason alone he should have imposed a golden rule on his Ministers and his Subsecretaries, that is to say, to give answers to parliamentary questions in a reasonable time. Having said that, allow me to make a brief excursus on the issue that I put to you and that, precisely because of the government's late response, today deserves, nine months later, to be reconsidered also in the light of the fact that in the spring the Minister will put on white the quotas allocated to the different systems of fishing for bluefin tuna and will share - I imagine - the quota allocated to the system of fixed traps between the different operators of the sector. Already last year the trap of Favignana had been forced to close, despite it, because of the decree of division of the quotas of tuna between the traps in activity, wanted by the Ministry of agricultural policies, that had assigned to Sicily only 14 tons of caught; a figure too small that has forced to the closure the Castiglione company that, with enormous economic efforts and great sacrifices, had managed to reopen the historical trap after twelve years of inactivity - as you found - guaranteeing obviously new direct occupation and to all the induced. The decree has severely penalized Sicily, assigning it a share of ridiculous tuna compared to the 340 tons allocated to Sardinia. The decree was based on an unreasonable principle - let me tell you, Undersecretary - because it has gone to despication of new entrepreneurial initiatives. In fact, it has allocated tuna quotas to tuna traps on the basis of previous catches, in fact facilitating and rewarding, of course, those already in operation. It is a conservative criterion, I dare say almost monopolist, that goes to penalize strongly, instead of supporting, who has the courage to invest and who - as in the case of the trap of Favignana - has revived a place of enormous historical importance that, with its 32,000 square meters, is one of the largest traps in the Mediterranean, an important tourist attraction, pride and symbol not only of Favignana but of all Sicilians. Moreover, on the issue, administrative case law was clear: the TAR, in a judgment of 2018, and then the Council of State, in 2019, reaffirmed the principle of the protection of the economic activity of all operators in the sector. What I am asking you, therefore, is that for once the Government should not limit itself to mere promises and propaganda commercials and, on the occasion of the new ministerial decrees relating to the quotas of bluefin tuna to be shared among the various operators, take the opportunity to remedy an unacceptable injustice and give a signal to Sicily. I would ask you that the tuna quotas allocated to the trap of Favignana be greater than those allocated to it last year. It is necessary to attribute at least 80 tonnes to it and if it is not so, Mr Undersecretary, the trap will remain closed again, to the detriment of the many workers to whom it has given employment, of all the induced to it and of the tourist activity of this beautiful island. What we ask, Undersecretary, is a signal, a concrete response to entrepreneurs who decide to invest in Sicily, who do not run away from Sicily, who do not abandon their roots and who unfortunately are all too often forgotten by this Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u31	Following is the question 3-01373 on the criticalities emerged in the public competitions of the Municipality of Sant'Anastasia, in the province of Naples. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to respond to the question put by Senator Iannone, who is asking to know what initiatives I intend to take to verify that certain competitive procedures at the Municipality of Sant'Anastasia have been carried out in compliance with the principles of transparency, objectivity and third-party judgment, in order to protect equal treatment between the various aspirants to a public employment. On the basis of the information provided to me by the inspectorate, I represent the following: with regard to the opportunity to carry out the competitive procedures in the run-up to the municipal elections, I would point out that the Municipality of Sant'Agata has announced its intention to refer recruitment to the 2018-20 Three-Year Plan of Needs and to initiate the process in October 2018. With regard to the assignment of the activities of organization and management of the preselection tests to a company already receiving similar assignment from the Municipality of Pimonte, directed by the same general secretary of the Municipality of Sant'Anastasia, the Municipality of Sant'Anastasia has communicated that it has proceeded, as a legal obligation, to the identification of the entrusted company of the service in question through the recourse to the electronic market of the public administration, with direct order of purchase, being a trust under the Community threshold. With regard to the participation in the competition by directors, their relatives, officials and former officials, administrators of nearby candidate municipalities in the lists that supported the mayor of Sant'Anastasia in the previous elections, the Municipality has shown that the pre-selection tests, consisting of the administration of a questionnaire of 30 questions with multiple response, have been carried out in ways suitable to guarantee the anonymity of the participants and that it would not appear that these tests have been passed by local administrators or relatives. Finally, with regard to the participation by the city council member of Sant'Anastasia in the pre-election tests launched by the municipality of Pimonte, I would point out that, on the basis of the elements collected by the public service inspectorate, it does not appear that the city council member has actually participated in the competition procedures to which the questioner refers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u35	IANNONE (FdI). Minister, your answer was particularly awaited by me not only because ten months have passed since the question was submitted, but also because - I think you should have heard about it in the press - at the beginning of December 2019 in Sant'Anastasia the mayor was arrested, two municipal councillors, the Secretary-General (he was also Secretary-General at the Municipality of Pimonte) and the legal representative of the cooperative society Agency selections and competitions, who had been entrusted with carrying out the preselection tests. The answers that I expected today, and that are waiting above all for many participants in the area of the Vesuvius, in the South of Naples - but the story seems to interest also municipalities in the North of the Province of Salerno, with news of press that speak of a "concorsopoli" - must render justice to those who participate in public competitions thinking that they are transparent, where they are guaranteed the correctness and merit; and this above all in an area of our nation strongly depressed, where it is difficult to find a job, but where public administrators every day fight between difficulties, public officials perform their duty having made the choice to work in the public employment and entrepreneurs seriously do their job, all damaged by stories of putrid corruption. When I promoted the question, I thought it was a fact, though serious, of political-electoral misconception, while what emerges from the investigations of the Public Prosecutor of Nola, whom I want to thank for the attention and for what he is doing, is really disturbing and gruesome. Minister, I would like to point out to you that I have produced two further questions to your Ministry, namely 4-02717 and 4-02788. As regards the question 4-02717, the same arrested persons, namely Secretary-General Egizio Lombardi and Alessandro Montuori of the cooperative society, are also included in competition proceedings of the Municipality of Cercola. In the Municipality of Sarno, this time in the Province of Salerno, on complaint of minority advisors, ten days after the arrest of Alessandro Montuori, has been conferred a further assignment to the cooperative society Agency selections and competitions, and this to me seems at least inappropriate. I would ask you, Minister, in a heartfelt manner, to pay close and precise attention to this matter. Without prejudice to the prerogatives of the judiciary, which we always thank, I believe it is our duty and of the entire ruling class of the nation to give signals of rigour to those who betray the public mission and to tell our citizens and especially to our young people that the State exists, is present and works concretely. Thank you for what you're going to do. For these reasons, however, I cannot be satisfied with your reply. [[Applause from Senator La Pietra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u36	Following is the question 3-01374 on the alleged irregularities in the conduct of a competition for public managers in 2019. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to respond to this question, which asks you to know what initiatives I intend to take with regard to the alleged unequal treatment which would have taken place during the pre-elective test of the course-training and recruitment of managers held at the National School of Public Administration (SNA), due to a different degree of difficulty in the questionnaires administered to candidates during the various trial sessions and opacity in procedures. With regard to the aspects highlighted by the interrogations, it is impossible to find structures at which, in a single session and in an orderly manner, the pre-election test can be organised in the presence of a very high number of requests to participate in public competitions (in this case more than 20,000 applications have been submitted). Organisational activity can only take into account the number of valid applications for participation in the competition and not the number of candidates who will actually participate in the competition. The division of candidates into several sessions, which is now the rule in the public competitions with high participation, involves the conduct of different days and it is therefore essential to modify, for each session, the content of the questionnaires, in order to ensure that all candidates participate in the competitions with equal chance of success. On the basis of the information I have been given, I represent the following. With specific regard to the non-apposition by candidates on the elaboration of the identification bar codes, I would point out that this activity was carried out - as in all competitions organized by the Ripam commission and in most public competitions - by the competition staff in public session, under the supervision of the examining commission. Barcodes have been affixed to the processed (coupling procedure) in public session - as I have already mentioned - under the direct supervision of the examining committee and the staff working in pairs, opening the envelopes one by one to avoid the risk of errors. All candidates were, on several occasions, invited to participate by means of a special communication made by the committee during the course of the tests. The choice not to entrust this activity to the candidates derives precisely from the consideration that if the barcodes - which have a unique numerical sequence - had been handed over to the candidates, it would have been possible to proceed with their transcription, putting - at that point yes - into question the principle of anonymity. An optical reading of the drafts and a ranking for each of the sessions in question have been carried out. The partial rankings, as they refer exclusively to the processes delivered in each session, have been formed by inserting exclusively the numerical sequences of the barcodes applied on the elaborations and the relative score (forming therefore an anonymous ranking). Only after having carried out the optical reading of the drafts of the candidates of the last session, with the consequent formation of a total anonymous ranking, the staff involved in the contest, in public session and in the presence of the commission, has: the opening of small sealed envelopes containing the registration card; to assign a name to the codes contained in the total provisional anonymous ranking of the test sessions. Subsequently, each candidate, through the password generated during the registration phase for the selection, was allowed access to his competitive acts through the "online acts " section on the Ripam website. By accessing the Ripam website, each candidate could view not only the image of his/her work with the barcode affixed to the match, but also the file of his/her own tests. As regards the content of the questionnaires, I would point out that all the questionnaires received during these tests were prepared in accordance with the criteria set out in the call for competition and in the notice published in the Official Journal concerning the diary of proof, with which, inter alia, it was communicated to the candidates that the questions would be divided between different areas and in the subjects indicated: logical reasoning (understanding of the text, verbal logic and/or deductive logic, numerical logic): twenty-four questions; constitutional law, administrative law, law of the European Union and international organisations: sixteen questions; political economy, economic policy, public administration economy, public management, analysis of public policies: fifteen questions; English language: five questions. On the other hand, as regards the different size of the percentage of candidates who have passed the session of the pre-election tests, I would point out that it cannot be regarded as symptomatic or as the sole reason for the administration of questions that have a different complexity, given also other elements and many variables to be considered from a statistical perspective. On the other hand, the heterogeneous and random composition of the various test sessions and the administration of questions of equal difficulty suggest that a higher percentage of more prepared candidates have been concentrated in some sessions. Notice that judgments were instituted before the TAR Lazio-Rome by candidates not admitted to the trials, aimed at obtaining the annulment of the results of the pre-election tests and subsequent acts. The State does not, however, find that there has been a ruling on the matter and that the precautionary measure granted to the applicants has been justified by the administrative court solely on the basis of the need not to deprive them of the possibility of taking part in the pre-election proceedings. An order was also issued by the same court on 6 December last, on the basis of which the National School of Public Administration, established in court, was invited to file a detailed report in order, in particular, to the procedures for combining barcodes to guarantee anonymity, the alleged disparity in treatment, the publication or not of the lists on the administration's website relating to those admitted to subsequent tests (in particular oral ones) and information regarding the publication of the final ranking. The next public hearing was scheduled on 3 June 2020. It is also obvious that the order appears to have been enforced.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u40	MANTOVANI (M5S). Minister Dadone, I am satisfied with the deepening that has been carried out by your Ministry. I would remind you that, with this question, I wanted to highlight to the Government some anomalies that have been denounced by several competitors who participated in the pre-election procedure in the context of the public competition for the recruitment of managers in state administrations and non-economic public bodies banned by the National School of Administration. As you just said, Minister, the TAR of Lazio by a public order, on 6 December 2019, asked the parties concerned for a detailed report on the modalities adopted in the context of this competition and on which the applicants pointed out these anomalies. In particular, information is requested on how the barcodes were applied and the barcodes read, as well as on the combination of the papers to determine whether anonymity has been violated. Clarifications are also asked about possible unequal treatment of the tests carried out. In view of the actions brought and the order of the TAR, I think it is absolutely appropriate for the administrations concerned to give a timely response. It seems to me that you said that the administrations responded to the TAR, to the applicants in general and to all those who faced the competition. I would therefore like to thank you, Minister, for the verification carried out and for your answer today which clarifies several aspects of the matter and highlights the methods adopted. As a Member of Parliament, I will endeavour to follow up any further developments in this matter. Today's opportunity is useful to reiterate that it is the duty of the State to protect candidates who, after years of study and considerable expenditure on preparation, face any competitive test and demand that it be carried out in full transparency at any level. The State must reiterate that, in order to have access to a public office, the first elements to be assessed are merit and competence and no other shortcut is admissible. Like Movimento 5 Stars, in Parliament and the Government, we will always fight for these principles to be respected in all public selections.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u41	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u44	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving us the floor. Let us bring to this House the story of Patrick George Zaky, a student of twenty-seven years, for many months at the University of Bologna, where he is engaged in a research master's degree. Zaky is a young researcher, militant for human rights, Egyptian, returned a few days ago, last Friday, in Cairo, to embrace his family. He was immediately arrested and, since then, he has been imprisoned. We have very little news of him and his condition. We are not aware, Mr President, of the charges which affect him, but we fear that he will be imprisoned and imprisoned for what are his ideas, his political ideas and his civil commitment. We fear that he is accused, imprisoned and imprisoned also for his research, which concerns sexual differences. There cannot be, anywhere in the world, the violation of human rights that we consider sacred. In this Chamber of the Senate of the Republic, we must honour what is our Constitution, which bans all discrimination and inequality; which instead stipulates the inviolability of the right of expression, of the right of thought, of the right to political commitment. Zaky's story is all the more dramatic and painful, because to us, Mr President, it brings the story of Giulio Regeni back to the present. We never considered that to be closed. Giulio Regeni, Italian researcher, just over four years ago he was first kidnapped, then tortured, until he was brutally killed, in Egypt. Our commitment is strong, together with the commitment of all parliamentarians, so that, finally, there may be justice for Giulio Regenti, who has become, in recent years, a symbol of Europe, of citizenship and also of the freedom of research, which is fundamental in our country. Therefore, Mr President, for Zaky, we call for the utmost attention and commitment from our Parliament, from our Government, from the European Parliament, from the European Commission and from the Council of Europe. There can't be silence. Our speech here today in this House tells Zaky that he is not alone. He urges him not to abandon what are his ideas, what is his thought. Our speech here in this House says that there can be no silence until Zaky is liberated; until, everywhere in the world, there are no more referees and abuses against human rights, which are the most important and most sacred thing for us that can have a democracy, its rule of law and every citizen. And that's the commitment we're here for. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Leu Groups and Senator Beginini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u45	Senator Verducci, the Presidency agrees with your call to pay the utmost attention and I am sure that Parliament will be able to find appropriate and appropriate actions so that the student can be protected in all his rights and can return quickly to university and his studies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u48	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, it is clear that the story of Patrick Zaky cannot leave us indifferent and does not leave us indifferent, especially because - as the previous speaker said - there is no clear and clear news. The situation is apparently taking on very worrying contours. For this reason, I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, which is taking action to ensure that there is procedural monitoring, since the first validation hearing will be held on 22 February next. Monitoring by the competent authorities is therefore important to ensure maximum fairness in procedures. Undersecretary Scalfarotto informed us of this during the last session of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Luigi Di Maio, publicly requested that Zaky's case be included in the procedural monitoring procedures. The Human Rights Commission has, of course, taken on board this case and I am pleased to announce that, following a request made by the Commission itself, next Tuesday we will be hearing the representatives of Amnesty International, to whom we will ask to help us to shed some light, to better understand and to open an information window on what is happening with regard to this matter. Personally, being from Bologna, and being Patrick a student who was attending a master's degree at my university, I can only feel called even more concerned. Patrick is part of the community of students that animates and makes Bologna an open, cosmopolitan city and has always been very attentive to human rights. So, I hope that soon Patrick can return with his classmates, to our beautiful Bologna. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Misto-Leu Groups of the Senators and Begins and Giro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u51	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I rise to support the call made in this House on the story of Patrick Zaky, which, among other things, almost coincides with the four-year anniversary of the murder of Giulio Regenti. This makes us think even more of how, unfortunately, the situation of respect for human and civil rights in Egypt is really serious. A few months ago, together with Senator Bonino, we met, right here in the Senate, some representatives of the Egyptian associations, who are fighting for respect for human rights and freedoms, who gave us a very alarming picture of what is happening in their country, referring in particular to the increase in the number of systematic violations, police arrests and missing persons. What we are given to know about the story of Patrick Zaky is even more alarming, because it almost seems to retrace the sad story of Giulio Regeni. It is well known that he has been subjected to torture, but it is not clear what the accusations are. Probably - as some of my previous colleagues have said - one of the accusations has even to do with his thesis on the situation of homosexuals in Egypt. You understand, therefore, how much more alarming the situation is. And then he gets charged with incitement to the protest. We are, therefore, all very concerned. Yesterday there was also the official statement by the President of the European Parliament, Mr Sassoli, who called for immediate release; Mr Borrell will put this matter before the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union and I believe that our Government is moving. Since, unfortunately, we come from the sad story of Regeni, we know that we have to claim even more forcefully the immediate release of the young man and above all the monitoring of what is happening in the fake procedural phase. As I come to the conclusion, I would really like to remind you that no diplomatic or economic interest can, for a country like ours, undermine the duty to guarantee human rights in other countries as well. It is therefore appropriate to assert this vocation also in our relationship with the other States, and even more so with Egypt. [[Applause from Senators Errani and Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u54	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, of course, the Forza Italia Group supports the hope that the Government will ask the Egyptian Executive to protect the young student, who certainly sees his human rights seriously violated. The link with Patrick Zaky is particular, although he is not an Italian citizen, because he has studied and should still study at one of our universities. However, I would like to see the same sensitivity for other cases in which, equally serious - and certainly some connection with Italy would also be found in those fringes - rights are violated in countries often not far from Egypt and to which less attention is paid. It is all right to ask for justice and respect for the rights of life and safety of Patrick Zaky and we join with strong participation in this appeal, but we also ask for justice for all other victims of violation of civil, personal, freedom, religious and personal freedom in any country. We cannot make Egypt a privileged target: Egypt is our interlocutor with regard to that case, with regard to the truth to be ascertained about the case of Regens, but many other countries must be respected on this same point. We cannot pretend that only in Egypt human rights are violated, because it happens much more often and in an equally serious way in many other countries and attention must be high anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u57	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I join with the call for respect for human rights made here today by all my colleagues and in particular Senator Malan. Unfortunately, human rights, which should be universal, in practice are not universally recognized; in fact, we are witnessing very sad performances, such as that of the poor Egyptian student, formerly that of the poor Regens, of Silvia Romano in Kenya and also of Luca Tacchetto, who died in Burkina Faso for more than a year now. We can say that we must respect human rights and we want respect for human rights. As a representative of the opposition, since we are here as senators to invoke these values, which are the highest, sovereign, superior to everything else, I ask the government what it intends to do in practice. Poor Silvia Romano has been kidnapped by criminals and perhaps sold to some terrorist organization, so it is a sort of evil NGO that acts as a subject of international law, although not recognized as such by us. The same goes for Tacchetto, for Father Luigi Maccalli, for the many Christians of Africa and the Middle East persecuted for religious reasons and violated in their fundamental rights by al-Qaeda, ISIS and by a thousand other groups and groups that act - I repeat - as subjects of international law, i.e. they claim an authority on a given territory and the ability to interact outwards and abroad, so much so that they kill and torture. So there are not only traditional states that violate human rights, but there are also non-state organisations. I ask the Government what it intends to do and what it will do to Egypt, as well as what it intends to do to our fellow countrymen at present in what we can call a prison with states or non-state organizations, serial violators of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the words are important - we are in Parliament - but the Commission is responsible for the facts. Although I recognise today, as at the time of the previous Government, the diplomatic activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, I believe that the Executive should - as is sometimes necessary - at least show the muscles. It must therefore speak a little less of renunciation of the military solution and more of human rights; it must pursue the diplomatic path, but letting it be understood that, in order to defend superior and extreme rights, extreme means of protection can be used. All victims, regardless of religion and nationality, are such. I am Silvia Romano no less than the student Zaky and Father Maccalli no less than Regens: they are all victims of the same enemies of human rights. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u58	Senator Candura, I am sure that having raised the universal theme of human rights will give us the opportunity not only to open a fruitful debate, but also - as would be desirable - to take joint action by this House in the name of globalisation of human rights. Pending the start of the planned question time, I suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 2.47 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u59	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development, the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Anastasi has the right to explain the question 3-01379 on measures to increase investment in research and development by Italian companies, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u60	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, innovation is an essential tool for ensuring the country's growth and giving our companies the opportunity to compete and generate new job opportunities. However, the data produced by many study centres, especially within the European Union, show a level of investment in research and development in Italy even lower than in other countries. In particular, in 2015, total expenditure as a percentage of GDP was 1.33 percent, or €21.9 billion. The EU average is 2.03%, while the EU's 2020 targets see research and development spending as 3% of GDP. Italian technological research is among the most appreciated in the world, but a significant number of researchers continue to leave our country for lack of career prospects. There is also a difficulty in transferring knowledge from research to the business world, hindering the leverage effect on business investment in research and development. The data released by the press showed that, at the end of 2019, the number of innovative startups registered in the special section of the business register was 10,882 units, with a quarterly growth rate decreasing compared to previous years. In decrease is also the average number of people employed: 781 less than in the second quarter. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, I would like to know what initiatives your Ministry intends to take to cope with the above mentioned difficulties and to encourage the level of investment in research and development in Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the honourable Members who have touched on a fundamental issue for the growth and development of our country. The data that Mr Anastasi mentioned are unfortunately irrefutable and put us in front of some reflections. First of all, to understand the direction in which to move, we need to analyse the state of affairs. The fact is that there are resources, there are tools, there are interventions, but perhaps there is no organic framework and there was no piece left, which we have finally filled with the formation of the governance of the National Innovation Fund. This is a venture capital fund, which goes precisely in the direction of stimulating research and development; a fund of one billion euros of public capital, with funds in part from Cassa depositi e loani and in part from the Ministry of Economic Development. With the start of governance, the strategy of the plan begins, which will be ready in a few weeks. In this way we should give impetus and stimulus to all activities of start-ups, research, development and innovation. The public funds part is therefore there; it needs to be understood how to attract private investment in research and development. The first thing we did was confirm the 4.0 package - we called it Transition Plan 4.0 - in which we confirmed the measures of the Business Plan 4.0, but extending the audience of the beneficiaries and intervening in a timely and strong way on the tax credit for research and development, extending it to innovation and design. The credit was therefore confirmed, but expanded in its intensity. In addition to this, which must of course be best communicated to our companies, we must understand how research and development form technology transfer to existing companies and how we do the skill up of companies that are born as startups. This is why we have created the Digital Atlas 4.0, a book in which we summarize all the research centers we have: competence centers, digital innovation hub, digital ecosystem for innovation (EDI), digital business points of the chambers of commerce, certified incubators, FabLabs, certified technology transfer centers and ITS (higher technical institutes). It is essential to put to network and system and combine the demands that arise from the willingness of entrepreneurs to make innovation, research and development with the need to attract private investments, but above all to understand how this turns, then, into an opportunity to do business, to do business and therefore to get back in the market. We do this by allocating a lot of resources: as I said, more than one billion on the fund and EUR 7 billion in the 2020 budget law for the Transitional Plan 4.0. We believe that if we want to grow this country, we must place it at the centre of our own research and development capacities and the transformation of our own production system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u62	Senator Anastasi has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u63	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, thank you for your reply, which was both brief and comprehensive. I would also like to thank the Minister for the initiatives which he has listed and which he is taking to enable our companies to return to compete worthily on the international scene. We hope that the coordination initiatives that he has mentioned, including tax ones, can make our startups competitive, like European ones, which already enjoy advantage tax and, on the other hand, attract investment. The road is the right one. I am pleased that the Minister referred to the many initiatives, which I would also like to add to the IPCEI fund, for the simple fact that I was its signatory in the budget law. We also hope that the initiatives that your Ministry is implementing will allow Italy to return to being attractive for foreign brains and investors, so as to make positive the net balance of our country system with regard to employment and wealth, in sectors, yes, high risk but also high multiplier. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u64	Senator Errani has the right to explain the question 3-01382 on the guarantee of the essential levels of performance in the context of differentiated regionalism, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u65	Mr President, I would like to make two very simple premises. The first: the third paragraph of Article 116 is a constitutional rule and must be fully implemented. The second: I appreciate and share the choice of a framework law that is able to define the boundaries through which to realize this differentiated autonomy that - I remember - is not, nor a new path to make a region with a special statute, nor a path to question what are defined as the fiscal residues of the Regions. These are elements that have nothing to do with autonomy. It is therefore essential that this framework is fully capable of ensuring the exercise of autonomy within the guarantees of national unity. This is in the interests of the regions which require the autonomy and, at the same time, of all citizens. We are talking about a very important and very important reform, which will change the institutional structure. The question is as follows. Without prejudice to the role of Parliament and, therefore, the possibility for it to intervene also on the agreements - and I trust that the Government shares this idea - I consider it indispensable, given the experience of Article 117 of the Constitution, its application and the significant institutional conflicts that it has produced, in addition to a preventive definition of the essential levels of performance (LEP) (health, education, assistance, local public transport), also to define and deduce the fundamental principles on which then regional legislation can operate. I am referring to fundamental issues, such as education and the environment, to give just a few examples. These fundamental principles must be defined in order to avoid, as is clear, institutional conflicts and to ensure that autonomy, while not wishing to do so, produces further disparities. I also have a second question concerning Law No 42 of 2009; we must fully implement this law because it will be clearer how we finance autonomy. I trust that we can finally do a constructive job on this issue and take a step forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u66	The Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Mr Boccia, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u67	Mr President, I thank Senator Errani. Your questions and your question allow us to clarify certain aspects. The draft framework law on differentiated autonomy is on the table of the Council of Ministers and I hope that it can be transferred to Parliament soon. I hope so because I think that Parliament must not only express itself in the time it considers appropriate, but I also believe that the work that the two branches of Parliament will be able to do, listening to the social partners and confronting the world of the Italian regions and local self-governments, can strengthen the principles on which we have worked. With Article 116 (3) of the Constitution, the draft framework law actually builds a safety belt that will impose on those who sign the agreements - and the Government will sign the agreements only on this condition - the implementation of the other articles of the Constitution, which are indirectly linked to Article 116; I refer to Articles 117, 118 and 119. In other words, the principles of subsidiarity and equalisation, which are set out in our Constitution, become a must for those seeking the implementation of Article 116. This is the sharing that has been found on the table State-Regions and for this I thank all the Regions, the three Regions that had made some progress in the two years that we have behind and all the others that, sitting at the table, have accepted the challenge. A common challenge, however, that concerns all Italian regions. Autonomy strengthens national unity: these are the words of the President of the Republic of Mattarella, whom I share, and which can be achieved. Differentiated autonomy is another thing compared to regions with special status: the two constitutional principles of differentiation and specialties are carved into our Constitution and make a clear difference. It is possible for regions with special status to have benefits from the indirect effects of differentiated autonomy - I think of the equalization fund that will inevitably be used by regions with special status - but it is not possible the opposite, because the specialty is the daughter of the history and culture of a relevant piece of our Constitution. So my answer is very clear: there is a very clear difference between regions with ordinary status and regions with special status and so it will continue to be. The definition of the fundamental principles to which you refer can be introduced with an ad hoc measure, because I think it is useful to clarify definitively the exercise of regional legislative power in relation to the additional forms and special conditions of autonomy, also in accordance with Article 116. We will decide together whether this further clarification will be necessary as soon as the basic text of the Government or the text which can be amended by Parliament. In conclusion, Mr President, I repeat that the agreements will also go to Parliament. Parliament is sovereign and will speak the last word on both the draft framework law and every single agreement that the Government will sign with each individual Region. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Errani to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u68	Mr President, first of all I welcome the Minister's last statement and I would like to stress it as a very positive fact. We must give away autonomy and new national unity. I do not ask that the basic principles be laid down in the framework law; I ask that the framework law emphasize the need to define the fundamental principles. Then we will have built an architecture that is absolutely useful for the country, for the Regions that demand autonomy and for all Italian citizens. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u69	Senator Laniece has the right to explain the question 3-01378 on the safety of the motorway section of the A5 near Quincinetto, in the province of Turin, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u70	Mr President, Minister, in the municipality of Quincinetto, on the border between the regions of Piedmont and Valle d'Aosta, a landslide of about half a million cubic metres of rock and debris is affected by a movement of a certain intensity and is under close monitoring. All this constitutes a serious danger for the international motorway A5 of Mont Blanc, the municipal road and the Turin-Aosta railway line. The displacement of the stone masses of the landslide front, measured by the instrumentation, had over the course of the year, from October 2018 to October 2019, a total movement of more than 40 cm, due to the heavy rainfall. The measures are carried out by the University of Florence in agreement with the Valdostan Highways Society (SAV). The motorway section affected by the landslide had several traffic interruptions in 2019 to overcome the attention thresholds indicated by the University of Florence and this has led to considerable inconveniences to the circulation both on the Piedmontese stretch, and especially on the side of the Valle d'Aosta. On the Piemonte stretch of road there is still a strong criticality represented by the Quincinetto bridge, which is currently almost unworkable for systemic safety work. It is then asked to the Minister in address if he is aware of the road problems described above that involve also the road of border between Piemonte and Valle d'Aosta and that, in case of prolonged interruption of the highway, they risk to create a logistic paralysis of the traffic, with economic repercussions both national and international, and what measures he intends to take in order to resolve these criticalities, possibly utilizing the declaration of emergency state in order to speed up the works of putting in safety highway.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u71	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the right to answer the question which has just been put, for three minutes (I am also interested in myself: I always go on that motorway to go to the mountains).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 May 2012, at the motorway section between km 54,700 and km 55, on the A5 motorway, the landslide you described occurred. Several large rock blocks, up to about 45 cubic meters, have reached the valley floor, damaging the secondary road. In addition, some of the rocky blocks hit the foot of the highway survey and a rock fragment ended up on the A5 track. The side in question is affected by a slow and generalized gravitational phenomenon, which covers an area of about 50,000 square meters and is subject to constant monitoring, coordinated by the University of Florence. In addition, a technical committee was set up to examine and evaluate the measures needed to resolve the problems arising from the landslide movement. In the mores of the definition and the implementation of the structural interventions for the safety of the territory, the prefecture of Turin, in agreement with the Piedmont Region and the Metropolitan City of Turin, adopted on 7 August 2019 the Plan of dispatch of the landslide of Quincinetto, which provides various measures of conditioning of the highway roadway due to the speed detected of movement of the landslide itself. In order to strengthen the alternative road to the highway, the Metropolitan City of Turin has planned improvements on the provincial road 69 and on the provincial road 70, which will be completed in the next month of May. With regard to the conservation of the highway structure overlooking the landslide, the SAV concessionaire, at the request of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, has prepared a definitive plan for the installation of a 350-metre-long paramassi, in frieze to the southern roadway of the highway. At the same time, work is in progress and will be completed in the current month for the construction of the provisional paramass network in correspondence of the emergency lane of the southern roadway, along the same motorway section that will be affected by the construction of the survey. This network will allow an increase of the risk thresholds and for the activation of the Shipment Plan, so as to make less frequent the need to close the motorway section overlooking the landslide. With specific regard to the interventions of adaptation of the bridge of Quincinetto, evidence that in the first decade of the next month of March the concessionaire should conclude the intense activities and proceed to the relative test for the capacity of 24 tons. In support of the local road alternative of the highway, the works of adaptation of the bridge of connection to the junction of Quincinetto, absent with concession to the highway Turin-Ivrea-Valle d'Aosta (ATIVA). The modernisation of the bridge will allow the movement of heavy vehicles with mass up to 44 tonnes, thereby making the alternative road more fluid when the A5 motorway is closed. Finally, as regards the statement of the state of emergency requested jointly by the Piedmont Region and the Valle d'Aosta Region, I would point out that the Civil Protection Department of the Presidency of the Council is conducting the necessary inspection activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u73	I give the floor to Senator Laniece to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u74	Minister, thank you for your reply. I take advantage of the word to recall the commitment of the regional administrations of the Valle d'Aosta and Piemonte to carry on the matter, in agreement with the competent ministerial departments. I also remember the mayor of Quincinetto, who has been working for years to resolve this issue. I believe that the focal point lies in the need to note that this is not an urgent but an urgent issue. I don't even want to think, for skirmishes, what could happen if half a million cubic meters of rock fell on the Mont Blanc motorway, maybe on a Sunday evening, when for four to five hours there is a large outflow of cars from the Valle d'Aosta to Piedmont. Minister De Micheli, we trust you for your authoritative and timely intervention to finally resolve this problem. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u75	Senator Vono has the right to explain the question 3-01385 on police management and procedural simplifications in strategic infrastructure works, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u76	Mr President, Minister, today's news is that the spread is at 126.5 basis points, not surprisingly at the very least since that May 2018 in which the previous Government was formed. The birth of the current Government has somehow tried to contain the effects of the policies of that government parenthesis. We have avoided the increase in VAT and prevented dangerous initiatives in open conflict with the European Union, with immediately visible effects such as the half-life of the spread. However, the Italian economy still lacks the fundamental contribution of the resources blocked in the state coffers (120 billion euros), which would allow, by relaunching investments in the infrastructure sector, to reverse the negative trend of GDP. The construction of infrastructure not only - you know very well - offers an essential mobility service, also creating jobs, but the availability of infrastructure itself promotes trade and promotes the overall well-being of our country. Our program, that we would like and we want to share with the Government, previews sburocratizzazione for the strategic infrastructures; procedural simplifications for the completion of the works unfinished to the North regarding the South; unblocking of the railway investments in order to allow the high speed in all the South, still to the last century in this field; and still the unblocking of the funds for the operativity of the ports (roads strategic for the economic and commercial relations) and the airports, with new possibilities of connection and intermodal transport for both the goods that the passengers. You have declared that you have unlocked in the first seventy-eight days of the Government works for 3.5 billion euros, and that you would commission other works, in addition to those already foreseen by law. Indeed, recent experience seems to show that the public works commissioners can, if properly implemented, produce positive results: to speed up the procedures, allowing the effective use of funds; for exceptional strategic interventions, as in the case of the Morandi bridge in Genoa; for ordinary situations for the new Naples-Bari railway line. Regarding missions carried out, let's think about the strategic plan of the Expo in Milan (characterized by investments and accounts in profit): all examples that could become models to follow in the ministerial activity. In addition, we have been waiting since December for the dismissal of the new single regulation of the Procurement Code to clarify the regulatory stratification. We are also asking you whether you have identified the criteria for proceeding with the Commission, in particular what works you intend to carry out and at what point is the work of simplifying legislation. And, again, if it considers it necessary to implement extraordinary initiatives for the release of those funds already allocated for the infrastructures that would allow the economic revival of the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u77	Mr President, with regard to the appointment of the extraordinary commissioners provided for by the so-called unblocking-cantieri decree, I would point out that, at my request, the offices of the Ministry have carried out the reconnaissance of all the public works already planned and blocked, taking all the necessary steps to overcome the problems that had prevented its initiation, that is to say hindering the realization. Twenty-one priority projects have now been identified which, due to the complexity of the procedures or the impact on the territory as well as the employment implications, require special Commissioner management capable of accelerating their implementation. They are seven works in the railway field; eight works in the water field, five of which for the safety and three for the completion of the water works; and six for the road infrastructure works. The draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for the identification of the works to be commissioner and for the appointment of Commissioners has already been prepared and will be sent to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in the coming days for the relative process provided for by law. In parallel, in the awareness of having to ensure a legal framework of reference with certain rules and easy implementation, as well as transparent and rapid procedures, we have set up a special ministerial commission (composed of administrative magistrates, accounting magistrates, state lawyers and university professors), which has been entrusted to proceed to the drafting of the single regulation, pursuant to article 216, paragraph 27-g, of Legislative Decree no. 50 of 2016. I have asked the ministerial committee for specific measures to simplify and reduce administrative burdens, both for contracting stations and for economic operators, which can lead to an acceleration of the lead time, obviously in the context of current legislation, as this is an administrative act. The work of the committee is about to be completed and the agenda of the preparatory meeting of the Council of Ministers will be requested in the next few days. For the works already unlocked call for consultation of the National Account of the infrastructures and the transports published on the website of the Ministry of the infrastructures and the transports, of which however I will give some more detailed information during the continuation of today's question time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Vono to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u78	Minister, we can be partially satisfied with the answer: your offices are working and we understand that it is not an easy operation, since your Ministry is involved in many activities. I would suggest, however, that political activity is also important, so political activity would be useful and necessary. I wish you good work. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u79	Senator Calandrini has the power to explain the question 3-01384 on the persistent closures of sections of the A14 motorway and on the infrastructural problems of the Adriatic corridor, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u80	Minister, the question that I am about to raise is certainly not a new one and concerns a long-standing problem that involves the viability of the A14 motorway, caused by narrow roads arranged by Autostrade for Italy along the ten viaducts of the stretch between the South of Marche and the Abruzzo region. I remind myself that these inconveniences are the result of a tragic accident that occurred in 2013, in which there were dozens of wounded and dozens of people lost their lives. These important traffic disruptions in the sections concerned, which regularly generate mileage queues of motor vehicles and consequent inconveniences for motorists, have been the subject of previous institutional interlocations, both in Parliament, and at the impetus of the Abruzzo Region. The same president of the Abruzzo Region Marco Marsilio has repeatedly urged the convocation of an institutional table. The last note, Minister - I have with me here the missive - was sent to you on 31 January in order to try to address definitively the issue of the realization of a third lane of the Adriatic corridor - that, I remember, today is stopped in the Marche Region near the Municipality of Sant'Elpidio - besides clearly to the issues connected to the state road 16 and the railway network, also subject to important limitations in the connections. Added to all this is the question of the high toll costs that users must continue to bear, despite the daily inconveniences that make the motorway at the limit of decency. We therefore consider it appropriate to arrive at a solution which will also lead to a general reduction of tolls, at least until the section of road in question returns to be adequately practicable. There has already been an answer, Minister, from one of your Undersecretaries in the House of Deputies, but I hope that we will go a little further than the factual responses that have been made in recent months. I expect from you a clear answer regarding the safety, the realization of a third lane of the Adriatic corridor and to understand what your Ministry intends to do to solicit the operator Motorways for Italy to reduce the current toll rate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u81	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u82	Mr President, on the motorway route A14 Bologna-Taranto there are currently many narrow roads resulting, both from the seizure measures issued by the judicial authority, as well as from the shipyards active for maintenance operations, with inevitable inconveniences for users, in particular in the regions of Abruzzo and Marche. In addition, the motorway concessionaire, following the verification activities carried out by the Ministry and taking into account the technical findings, adopted traffic regulation measures aimed at maintaining safety levels. In occasion of the limitation to the transit of the heavy vehicles determined on the A14 in correspondence of the Viaduct Cerrano, the Ministry has readily activated itself in order quickly to favor all the activities of verification on the state of the infrastructures and monitoring of the contiguous landslide through the activation of the emergency plan. These measures were favourably considered by the judicial authority, which ordered, a few weeks ago, the removal of the viaduct. This measure has allowed the restoration of the transit to heavy goods vehicles on the motorway, with some limitations, thus overcoming some of the inconveniences connected to the congestion of the highway in correspondence with the Pescara Nord-Giulianova route. In order to definitively overcome the limitations connected to the seizure of barriers on deck, the Ministry has asked the concessionaire to prepare a program of requalification and substitution to be carried out in certain times. To date, the Aspi dealer has presented for most of the barriers of the A14 final projects already hesitated by the competent offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure for the technical part. In the near future, executive projects will be developed to be submitted to the conventional approval procedure. At the same time, the Ministry of Infrastructure is evaluating the interventions of strengthening the traffic capacity in order to take into account the constant increase of demand generated in recent years on that section of the A14. As regards the possibility of a temporary reduction in tolls and any compensatory measures, I asked the concessionaire to draw up a plan covering both measures. As for the Adriatic railway ridge, I point out that it is a line entirely electrified and interested, even in recent years, from important investments of potenziamento. The 2017-2021 Programme Agreement has also planned, and fully funded, the project to speed up the Adriatic line, for a total of 617 million euros, with the aim to reach, on more than 60 percent of the 750 km total, the travel speed of 200 kilometers per hour, which will allow to reduce by an hour the times of railway movement between Bologna and Lecce.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u83	I give the floor to Senator Calandrini to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u84	Minister, thank you for your reply, but of course we are not satisfied at all, because we do not go into the substance of the issues I have raised. We are faced with a government that pursues problems whenever they occur, but does not make adequate planning to put in place a long-term strategy. I also note, subtlely, that the notes and the requests repeated several times by the president to the Region Abruzzo Marco Marsilio are before the block of the A14 motorway, which has occurred in recent weeks. This is also in the light of what President Conte said only a few months ago, on the growth of Italy that depended a lot on the ransom of the South of the nation, referring to an extraordinary plan of interventions of the Government for the South, which included also the strengthening of the infrastructures that we are now talking about. For us, the time has come to move from words to deeds and we as Brothers of Italy will continue to monitor and insist on this issue, so that the Southern regions can bring their beauties and products everywhere in the world. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u85	Senator D'Arienzo has the right to explain the question 3-01381 on the development and priorities of the government's infrastructure investments, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u86	Minister, the Democratic Party, confirming its vocation, considers that public investment as a driving force for growth, in support of employment and development, is essential. We are convinced that the speed of economic recovery and the competitiveness of our country depend also on the realization of important investments, both public and private, because it is on public works that we measure the ability to equip Italy with a system of connected infrastructure, modern, integrated and capable of creating development. The Government is facing, and well, this growth strategy and is doing so following sustainability criteria, which take into account the social and environmental impacts of the works, also waiting for the delicacy of the historical moment. Despite the difficulties, the 2020 budget law and in particular the funds that were established until 2034 are the concrete proof of this. There are important resources for central government investment, as well as for municipalities, regions, provinces, metropolitan cities, for the security of buildings including energy efficiency. The list of works is very long, you are aware of it, and includes public construction, urban regeneration, maintenance of the road network, bridges and viaducts included, hydrogeological failure, prevention of seismic risk, enhancement of cultural and environmental assets. Of course, the large allocation of resources provided for in the budget law for public works must be accompanied, in the coming months, by the adoption of measures and measures, which favour its design and therefore as quickly as possible. Minister, since, as you know, the last few days on the country's economy show the need to start investments, which can promote the rapid economic recovery and development like the major European economies, since investment in infrastructure is an effective tool for a positive impact on GDP and therefore on growth, development and employment, I ask you a simple, direct and unfiltered question: what interventions and infrastructure works can be unlocked, in the coming months, to ensure that what we have also foreseen in the law can be achieved? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u87	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u88	Mr President, we certainly need useful, modern, efficient and secure infrastructure, and we need to remove all those obstacles which, to date, have slowed down the effective use of the resources already available. In fact, there is no doubt that public investment is indispensable for the growth of the country. Since the first day of our inauguration I have expressly given the mandate to the offices to proceed to the punctual reconnaissance of all public works, planned and blocked, identifying all the necessary initiatives for overcoming the problems, which had prevented the start, or hindered the realization. To the question on which infrastructural works will be started in the next months, I answer that to the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports they are allocated, before the approval of the last law of budget, resources for approximately 50 billion euros, to use in the next fifteen years, for the realization of participations in the various fields of our competence. The budget law for 2020 added EUR 30 billion for the realization of investments by central and peripheral administrations in public works, for the safety of road network, bridges and viaducts, as well as for the implementation of innovative programmes for the quality of living: only for this reason are allocated EUR 850 million. Very important will be the approval of the single regulation, that it has a few weeks of delay, for the necessity to share with the stakeholders this text and, of course, all the activities tied to the update of the program contracts, is of ANAS, but in particular of Italian railway Network. Well, in just one hundred and sixty-two days, already with this activity of political and administrative nature, works and financings to local authorities for other works and transports, immediately can be ironed, for a total value of 9,6 billion euros. I quote some of the unlocked interventions: 470 million euros for the safety of local railway lines, 250 million euros for the participations relative to the bridges of the basin of the Po, 250 million euros for the extraordinary plan invaded, 500 million euros for the Campogalliano Sassuolo, waited for twenty years, 75 million euros for the safeguard of the lagoon of Venice, 460 million euros for the state Telesina, 1.3 billion euros for the state Ionian, where moreover I will be on the 10 March, besides the 750 million euros of the Ragusa Catania, that will be the object of the resolution of the next CIPE. I would add that last December we unlocked 2.3 billion euros, which we have allocated to municipalities for the development of fast mass transport systems and 2.2 billion euros, which we have allocated to the regions, for the renewal of buses, with alternative technologies, within the framework of the Strategic National Plan for Sustainable Mobility. In a few months, we have managed to give a new and important boost to public investment, in the absolute conviction that, in addition to modernising the infrastructure of the country, they generate employment. We are sure that more and more will be possible, certainly with the help of Parliament, in the next legislative steps that await our Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u89	I give the floor to Senator Astorre to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u90	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much, also for having understood in your speech the essence of the question and the problem we have posed, namely that the real emergency in the country is the economy and the work. This is the real emergency that we have to face, and public investment in this area, in all the ramifications that you have pointed out, is absolutely essential. Of course, you understand even better than I do how much public investment by its nature is anti-cyclical, that is, how much it can help to revive the economy in a time of crisis. Moreover, I had the honour of doing a similar job to his from 2005 to 2010 as city council member to the public works of the Lazio Region, in an era that is perhaps like a geological era from today's. However, in addition to the importance of the investments you have mentioned, the importance of rapid implementation times must be stressed. In my opinion, the reforms we have made in recent years have not always gone in this direction; if we have to get back on track, but the issue is to be quick from the moment of allocation to that of implementation, because citizens and investments in infrastructure cannot wait, because the modernization of this country is in the hands of this majority and this Government [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u91	Senator Corti has the right to explain the question 3-01380 on the updating of the economic and financial plans of the highway concessionary companies, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u92	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his attention. Article 16 of Decree-Law No 109 of 2018, affecting the Transport Regulatory Authority (ART), assigned to the latter the task of establishing new motorway toll tariff systems based on the price cap method, i.e. the price cap, also effective against existing concessions and not only for new ones, where, previously, the concessionaire was granted annual toll increases of 70% of inflation. The new motorway toll tariff systems, based on the price cap method, were defined by the ART with specific resolutions in June 2019. Article 13 of Decree-Law No 162 of 30 December 2019 (so-called milleproroghe, currently in conversion to the Chamber of Deputies at first reading), established the blockage of the increase in motorway tolls for those concession companies whose five-year regulatory period, including its economic and financial plan, has expired. The economic and financial plan (PEF) is that plan that the concessionaire submits to the State to regulate its investments (e.g. in the maintenance of the infrastructure granted) and its economic means to deal with it, to be recovered with the increase of the tolls; the same article 13 of the decree-law thousandproroghe has set to 30 March 2020 the time limit within which the concessionaires submit to the grantor the proposals for updating the economic and financial plans, reformulated according to the new tariff criteria established by the ART with the aforementioned deliberations, and to 31 July 2020 the final deadline within which the update of the PEFs must be perfected. On the date before the entry into force of the provisions cited in the preamble, some concessionaires have submitted proposals for updating the economic and financial plans informed to the pre-existing pricing criteria and wait - in some cases since 2018 - for the approval by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. According to the questioners, at present six concessions have expired, they must be reallocated and are therefore without an economic-financial plan; a concession (Asti-Cuneo motorway) is in rewriting; 13 economic-financial plans are to be updated, as the regulatory period has expired in 2019. The economic-financial plans waiting for approval preview investments for a total of approximately 11 billion, of which 7,2 billion for the regulatory period 2019-2029, to which are added the 4.1 billion previewed for the realization of the Gronda of Genoa. Starting with the conclusion, we ask the Minister how he intends to work in order to reach, in a very short time, the definitive approval of the proposals for updating the PEFs of the concessionary companies, in order to immediately unblock the investments envisaged in the same plans, that they amount to approximately 11 billion euros in the course of a decade, also in the light of the procedures of revocation of some of the motorway concessions that the Government intends to start. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u93	Conventional acts governing motorway concessions set the deadline for each regulatory period in five years for updating PEFs. At each update, the investment plan shall be adjusted, technical parameters reprogrammed and future tariff levels determined. By Decree-Law No 109 of 2018, converted into Law No 130 of 2018, the application of the new tariff regime of the Transport Authority, which is based on the principle of price cap. The Transport Authority (ART), with resolution n. 16 of 2019, has started the consultation that has ended in June 2019, with the emanation of sixteen resolutions referable to the concessionary companies with expired regulatory period. From the same month of June, in accordance with the new framework, the Directorate-General for the Supervision of Motorway Concessions asked the concessionaires concerned to prepare plans in accordance with the new framework. This request was followed, however, to a very partial extent, by only a few dealers. Article 13 of Decree-Law No 162 of 2019 provided for a detailed timing for the submission of PEF proposals by concessionaires and for the improvement of the approval process, thus establishing a context of greater certainty in the timing and regulation of grantor relationships. In the mores of the update of the PEFs, the Ministry has formally asked the concessionaire companies to continue in the investments already absent in the past within the concessions, whose realization therefore excludes the times of updating of the financial economic plans. At the same time, the Ministry has ordered the dealers to put in place the designs and interventions necessary to guarantee the safety of the highway infrastructure. The same provision was also given to companies holding expired concessions. In relation to these concessions, all the procedures for the identification of the new concessionaire and therefore for the start of the tendering phase have been initiated. Evidence however that in implementation of the dispositions given to the concessionaires, from September 2019 has been unlocked participations relative to concessionary investments for beyond 800 million euros. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report by Mrs Pergreffi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u94	Thank you, Minister, but we are not satisfied with this reply, because the Court of Auditors has also spoken today, saying that the investment plan in Italy must be unblocked. Many works are blocked, because the concessionaires are subject to this regime of uncertainty. He did not respond to us on what the Government is going to do at this time, with the revision of the contracts of the concession companies and the revision of certain concessions, since we are even talking about the revocation of some of these. At the same time as we are talking about revocation, we also wonder how the motorway dealers can invest. Clarity is fundamental at this stage, because as the Court of Auditors said today, an investment plan is needed to restart the country. On the lifting of motorway concessions, however, as always there is silence on your part, because for your internal quarrels there is no clarity. I too am a woman, and I can do two things at the same time, but at least the education of looking into the face of those who are responding would be welcome. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u95	Please, it is not up to you to make these remarks and I believe that the Minister is still able to look at a telephone and listen, at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u96	Minister, today Forza Italia has chosen to speak to you about the South and to touch on an issue that actually concerns the development of the whole country due to its specific weight, its relevance and its economic consequences. You are well aware, Minister, that the unacceptable infrastructure gap between North and South Italy is one of the main causes of the perennial economic crisis in the Mezzogiorno and the consequent and increasing phenomenon of its depopulation, which affects - alas - especially young people and the most qualified: a tragedy, that of emigration, which deprives the South of its best resources. Our Mezzogiorno is experiencing a persistent, widespread and endemic crisis. The southern question, in fact, has never been resolved and those who govern - I say it as a Sicilian - have enormous responsibilities vis-à-vis the southern world. We can't live in a broken country yet. We must not allow there to be two "Italies" that travel at different speeds. You, Minister, may object that you have recently established yourself and that the government has changed since last year, but it is not up to me to remind you that Prime Minister Conte, who should lead the government's action and dictate its course, has always remained in his place and should not have changed his mind about what to do to give dignity to the South. It is all too obvious that one has lost and continues to waste time in constant controversy. The film we are witnessing has not changed: endless discussions characterize your unlikely majority and continue to paralyse government action. Both your Executive and the previous one thought that the response to an agonizing Mezzogiorno was merely welfare, subsidies and citizenship income, but what we need is not an end to itself, but a policy aimed at the infrastructure of a territory that has all the cards in order to revive the country's economy and attract new investments. Data on infrastructure in the South are dramatic: with regard to the railway network in Sicily and Sardinia there are 36 kilometers per thousand square kilometers. The situation of the highways and roads is no different, not to mention the high speed that is missing and the lack of realization of the Bridge on the Strait that Silvio Berlusconi and Forza Italia have always supported to revive the economy, not only Sicilian, but the whole country. Therefore, Minister, I ask you, since you have announced several times a plan of investments directed precisely to this area of the Country, what concretely you intend to do in order to really allocate to the South and to the islands Sicily and Sardinia the resources necessary to face our infrastructural emergency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u97	Mr President, as already pointed out in the reply to the previous question, there is no doubt that public investment is indispensable for the growth of this country. In this sense, it is primarily the Government's understanding to put in place all the necessary initiatives to equip the Southern regions of the country with an adequate infrastructure system. With specific regard to road infrastructure, I highlight that the update of the Program Agreement ANAS 2016-2020 provides for the activation of 255 interventions (new works, adjustments and safety, completion of existing routes) for an investment of about 20,1 billion euros, plus 8,2 billion investments in scheduled maintenance and additional investments for 1,2 billion. The total volume of interventions carried out by ANAS is, therefore, about EUR 30 billion. Well, about 16 billion - 52 percent of the total - are destined for the South and the islands. In detail, interventions amounting to approximately 360 million euros in Molise, approximately 850 million euros in Abruzzo, more than 2 billion euros in Campania, 1.4 billion euros in Basilicata, 1.6 billion euros in Puglia, about 4 billion euros in Calabria, 3.5 billion euros in the Region of Sicily and more than 2 billion euros in Sardinia are financed. I confirm that on March 10 I will be in Calabria to inaugurate the third megalot of the State Road 106 Ionica, which is a tender of more than 1.3 billion. With specific regard to the railway infrastructure network, I represent that the Agreement of program investments RFI 2017-2021 previews the execution of participations to the South pairs 36 percent of the allocated resources, percentage that, in the update for the years 2018 and 2019, has been elevated respective to 48 percent and 41 percent. In detail, evidence that interventions related to the high speed Naples-Foggia-Bari (equivalent to 5.8 billion), the doubling of the line Bari-Taranto (479 million), the technological upgrading and the infrastructural upgrade of the line Salerno-Reggio Calabria (450 million euros, that with the next decree we will implement for beyond 3 billion euros in order to arrive to the high speed of net on this tract), the doubling Bari-Taranto, the Sicilian railway network (double of Messina-Catania with an investment of 2,3 billion euros, doubling of Messina-Syracuse, with an investment of 127 million and doubling of Palermo-Messina). I have here a long list that, since I have finished the time at my disposal, kind senator, I will deliver you short manu. Finally, I represent that the offices of the Ministry are to the job for the revision of the national plan of the airports, let alone for the identification of the measures that can render more competitive the net of the Italian ports, also through heavy participations on the intermodalità. For the works already unlocked, I refer to what I said during this question time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Giammanco has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u98	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, but you know that you have spoken today of very important investments, so you will excuse me if I, as a woman in the South, before I am a Member of Parliament, have a lot of concerns about your words and about the fact that they will be translated into concrete acts and, I would add, in a reasonable time. You know better than I that it is not only a matter of allocating funds and expressing the will to invest them. We need to intervene effectively on one of the most serious diseases in this country, that is, excessive bureaucracy. Simplifying must be the watchword: we need special laws that can give immediate answers to the South emergency; we need to overcome the procurement code, whose reform, in fact, has hindered infrastructure and complicated the framework, rather than simplifying it. We must ensure that judicial investigations do not fall down as a clave on the process of the work, blocking the realization of the works. Minister, I sincerely hope that the Government will succeed in fulfilling its promises. I am convinced that the political force that will truly interpret the demands of the South will guarantee the government of the country for the next few years. We need will and foresight, we need a clear vision of the country, which unfortunately a weak government - let me say this - as yours cannot have. We need to get out of the perverse logic of assistantism, which starts from underestimating individual abilities and it is the answer that requires less effort, less commitment, less courage. Investing in the South is equivalent to investing in Italy as a whole; it means believing that the South is an added value and not a ballast. Investing in the South, Minister, means giving confidence, giving hope to a hungry and eager people to make it, without being forced to abandon their roots. Investing in the South means implementing that principle of substantial equality, which is also the basis of our Constitution and which our Constitution has enshrined, but which this Government seems to have forgotten.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u99	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-191.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 18 February, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (16.04 a.m.).
