ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1659. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place and the representative of the Government put the question of confidence on the amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law. I call on the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u4	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the further amendment of the Government 1,900, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that does not preclude it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u5	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u6	Mr President, there is a special effect on the way in which the Government is proceeding: not only have you put your confidence at first reading on a matter of enormous delicacy, such as the subject of interceptions, but you have done so by means of a decree-law, after a postponement that the yellow-green government had already asked for by the explicit will of Minister Bonafede in July 2018. You come today, "in the Cesarini area," to put your trust as a result of compromises reached in the Commission, which clash with the legal civilization or with what little remains of it. The most striking case was the compromise on Article 270 of the Code of Rite - I see here the Undersecretary Giorgis, with whom we have been confronted on the point - which gave rise to a text (which will be approved by the majority, certainly not with our votes) which even leaves open the possibility of pick-up interceptions indiscriminately and does not place that minimum of rigour reiterated, absolutely clear, by the recent nomophilachia (judgment No 51 of January this year) according to which the offences must be connected in accordance with Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and not simply linked. On this not only do you limit yourself to the connection, but in fact with the insertion of the conjunction "e" join the two hypotheses to the point so as to bring back from the main door everything that came out of the window in contempt of what has been affirmed by the Court of Cassation. This is part of a culture that is now inspired by that rigor and that justiceism - I don't want to call it forkman because it would in itself be an abuse of adjectives - but this is because everything derives, as I said yesterday, from what you wanted to impose in Law No. 3 of 2019, that is, in your flag law, which is the scrambled decree. Equipped from the point of view of criminal offense crimes of terrorism to crimes against the public administration. The misuse of a copier is the same as de facto gravity as terrorism, the mafia and these crimes. Then, rightly, someone from the League tells you that you have left out articles 600-a and following. On Rule 600-c - I do not want Mr Pillon - I have a slightly different view from his because I believe that, in any case, the instruments available are provided for by the penal code, but for the rest he is absolutely right. There is a de minimis compromise and a gross oversight by the majority and the government. The list would be long. With the scramble you have tightened the penalties; you have foreseen perpetual interdittive penalties; you have foreseen the provoking agent and the use of the trojan and now in this decree-law you allow the use of the computer picker not only for the crimes committed by the public officers, but also by the public service officers (figure that in the jurisprudence has a very vast and proteiform representation). Well, against this, it remains in the background as much as this majority has handed us over and is giving us over. I remember an illustrious jurist, Salvatore Satta, taught us that the trial is a penalty in itself. There is also a praise on the prescription issue - we have seen it these days - but it is of absolute evidence that for you the teaching of Salvatore Satta means pain for all and endless trial. This is the manifesto that leaves the Government against which the Forza Italia Group is strongly opposed and therefore will not vote for the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u7	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things to the Government. Today you ask for another confidence in this House and you know very well that what might appear to be an act of force today is, instead, an act of extreme weakness because you can do the gradassi in the Palace and ask for trust, already knowing that you can get it, but you are aware that, instead, the confidence outside this Palace the Italians will never give it to you again. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You are the ones who ask for confidence with a certain lightness, contrary to everything you have told your voters. I am referring above all to the component of the Movimento 5 Stars. You have arrived here with a narration that you are today complaining plastically with the request for this vote of confidence. You were the ones who climbed the rooftops, saying that the behaviour of the government at the time was a disgrace, that it was shameful to demand continuous trust, that it was not a democratic attitude. I remember well those who today hold the office of President of the Chamber of Deputies saying strongly that if the 5 Star Movement had arrived in the Government it would never have used trust, because it was a way of disregarding the House, the Senate, Parliament. You, who told the Italians to take the vows that you would open these Palaces like a can of tuna, today instead you are here using that trust that you fought so much. However, your request for confidence is even more serious, because you place it on a matter that concerns the fundamental rights of people: the freedom, security and confidentiality of every individual and every person. You do it with absolute lightness. You don't give a damn. This is the reason why we are told that your request for trust in the Government represents a double gravity; a Government that is not there, is immobile and certainly does not care about the interests of Italians. A government fighting every day about anything. I would really like the Italians to be able to see the spectacle that was given yesterday in the Justice Commission of this Senate. I would like them to see what happened yesterday in the Justice Commission in order to be able to give a judgment. You are changing people's fundamental rights. I'm not talking about murderers, terrorists and thugs. The decree-law that you carry out can in fact impact on people, who perhaps for a simple delation, for a hypothesis or a suspicion of administrative crime, can find their life thrown on the front page. You're putting on a modern pillory. The instruments have changed, but the pillory remains. By this provision you will make the citizens participate in a kind of Big Brother; citizens who would not like to participate and who, most likely, should not participate in the Big Brother, which you are setting up. Of course, I understand that you have a very particular view of the rule of law. I remember the words of your President-in-Office of the Council - for us very serious - when he said that he was neither a legalist nor a guarantor. This undermines our constitutional principles. I also remind you that for our Constitution no citizen is guilty until his final judgment. But today you want to change the rule of law, which has ruled our nation for so many years. I understand that, according to your conception, a citizen is not innocent until proven guilty but guilty until proven guilty, and that is a very serious fact. But you're doing even worse, because you're changing the code of criminal procedure with a decree-law. I assure you, no one has ever dared so much. Basically, with this instrument to you it seems to be strong, because most likely the Government today will gain the confidence, but any confidence that this Palace will give the Government is a picket in respect of that confidence that the Italians - I tell you clearly - will never give you again. I would like to close my speech, Mr President, by asking this Government what democracy is. I would like to ask this Government what its concept of freedom is. We have the answer, but I would love to hear what you think you have long stared at the concept of representative democracy, you who have deceived millions of Italians because "one is worth one," you who have deceived the Italians by telling them that you would change everything that had happened in the past, you who fought, you who said that trust was absolutely not a right instrument because you were for the discussion of ideas, for debate, for discussion. Now, the only reason for joy - if you can say so - on this sad day for the rule of law, is your plastic representation: preach well but scramble badly. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u9	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert concerns a very complex matter, as has been pointed out by the speeches of the representatives of the other groups before me. In recent years, efforts have been made to put a hand on this subject several times with numerous reform interventions, even in different directions. I must point out that, despite the excitement and harshness of the work in the Justice Commission, with great balance and spirit of cooperation some of the majority forces that support the Government have come to terms with a good text. A text that is fully respectful of the Constitution, I would like to stress this, given the last words I have heard. A text fully respectful of the constitutional guarantees and for this I would also like to thank Mr Giorgis, not only for his work in the Commission but also for his presence today. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u11	Colleagues, I would ask you to pay a little attention to Senator Cirinna.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u12	CIRINNA' (PD). The Constitution remains our lighthouse, the Constitution remains that virtual place in which every composition of inequalities, guarantees and rights finds an answer. I therefore completely reject what was heard in the previous speech on respect for the Constitution. I repeat: the text in our examination holds together the need to ensure the security of citizens by means of the most appropriate means of investigation with the equally necessary guarantee of the fundamental rights of suspects and accused persons. Legality and guarantee of rights: this is where the balance must be created. [[Brusio]] Mr President, in addition to the call for attention, I would ask you to look at colleagues and to ask them to be serious. THE PIETRA (FdI). Look at you! CIRINNA' (PD). You said that we do not respect the Constitution, that we do not respect the guarantees, at least respect the rules of this House. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Look at you! There's two of you! CIRINNA' (PD). You take selfies in the House as we talk about people's lives! [[Protests from L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u13	Senator Cirinna, I don't see any dramatic facts. I have seen this House much more careless on other occasions. The truth is that the House is not very full and there is no such disturbance.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u14	CIRINNA' (PD). All right, ma'am, you're right! I am talking about legality and guarantees of rights and everyone is doing their homework. [[Comments L-SP-PSd'Az]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u15	Please let the senator continue. I'll get you your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u16	CIRINNA' (PD). We found a complicated balance point. I would like to point out just a few aspects of this measure, on which we have done an important job. We have given strict discipline to the prohibition of the publication of the results of the interceptions. We will no longer have, in this country, "Guatemattes of Guatemala," just to mention one of the best known facts that went into the newspapers; we will no longer have the private life morbidly put on the front page, when the interception has no relevance either for the investigation, nor for the subsequent procedural phase. We have also given more guarantees to defenders, better definition of cases in which interceptions can be used, as they say in jargon, by trawling. The framework of principle is very clear. There is no possibility of political controversy about this. The protection of confidentiality, the guarantee of the right of defence and the contradiction in the formation of evidence are clear, but also the awareness that interceptions are a fundamental instrument of investigation, often resolving, and that therefore must be fully allowed and valued, albeit within the framework of a rigorous and detailed discipline. I am not telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that the solution introduced by the decree-law is still the best possible, or that it would be the one that I personally, who for over ten years worked passionately at Professor Cordero's Chair of Criminal Procedure, would have preferred. Let us say that there can always be room for improvement when it comes to guarantees and certainty of rights for citizens. I am telling you, rather, that I recognize in this bill the result of important political work, which has seen the commitment of so many of us and, I repeat, an effort by the Government, which must be respected. When we decided to give life to this Government - let's not forget it, we were in August - it was a painful choice for all of us, but we did it for the good of the country. [[Comments from the FdI Group]] THE PIETRA (FdI). Good of the country... [[Call the president back.]] CIRINNA' (PD). We have done this in order to put politics back at the centre, with all the effort that politics entails. These days in the Justice Commission have given a sign of the tiring composition. We have decided to put aside our immediate interest, the interest of the individual and the individual party, in order to open ourselves to confrontation. A difficult confrontation, with a political force for years opponent. Very often it is not easy to work together; we have done so, I repeat, for the good of the country, in order to remove the excesses of a political season that had seriously endangered the maintenance of democratic institutions. Above all, we did it to try to sew this country back with serious policies, with commitments of growth and support for the weakest sections of the population, to put people, their needs and their rights at the centre. In the end, in my every speech you will find me here, on this point: to put people's lives and their rights at the centre. In this spirit we have given the country a budget law, which has reversed the course, which brings the institutions closer to the needs of the citizens. Few would have thought that we would succeed and the jolts of tonight and these last days still make some doubts come to mind. Instead it happened, we succeeded and we will continue to succeed, because the government coalition not only held, but also tried to reason, according to a vision and a project. It is precisely on this, on the project to give answers and improve the country, that we commit ourselves to moving forward, also on justice. The theme is certainly one of the most delicate, if I think of the many differences in the political culture of the Democratic Party compared to that of the Movimento 5 Stars. We have opened a debate, a frank, loyal and tiring construction site: the construction site on the civil process, the criminal process, the reasonable duration of the trials and also the very thorny one on the subject of prescription. This is the only way to move forward. Also on this the Democratic Party and - let me say this - the compañeros and friends of Free and Equal and also the Movimento 5 Stars have acted with a deep sense of responsibility, aware that accepting the challenge of politics also means seeking a meeting point, that moment of synthesis necessary to remain united in this Government. The key word, ladies and gentlemen, is always the same: responsibility, that political responsibility that we have seen weakening in a worrying way in recent years, as if what happens inside these Palaces is not always before the eyes of our citizens and as if the democratic legitimacy of this act no longer counts. There was no responsibility in so many, too many long moments and only in part in this new season we are struggling to remedy. I am thinking of our recent vote on the Gregoretti case, which has healed a bloody wound inflicted on the holding of democratic institutions with the vote on the Diciotti case, reaffirming that the violation of the principle of humanity and fundamental rights cannot escape the judge just because it is claimed to be a political act. We have been responsible and loyal and have taken a complex path. We are trying to build a project for the country and we want to do it together, without being rigid in an instrumental way and really putting at the center only and only the interest of Italy and the wishes and needs of our fellow citizens. Only then can we be credible and withstand the many shocks. I say this above all to colleagues in the majority, with whom we often talk about the need to sew up the country and build social cohesion. We often say that, at this time, identities have been used as an instrument of exclusion and that we would need greater solidarity and respect for all diversity. Let me say this in a funny way, without going around it too much: with what credibility do we think we can do it if, instead, inside we divide in an instrumental way, we can not discuss in a balanced way and we fight for small interests of shop? What example are we setting while we are dealing with very sensitive issues relating to the security and rights of citizens? I conclude by recalling a serious and painful scene which marked the parliamentary work on this decree-law: yesterday's occupation of the Commission Justice by a handful of Senators of the League who prevented the smooth running of the work. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This must not be allowed. At that moment the dignity of the whole Senate was trampled on with methods that recall a long time ago that we would not like to see repeated. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This has been done for instrumental reasons or - better - by using in an instrumental and shameful way the protection of the weakest and victims of child pornography. In fact, you brought this issue into play in an instrumental way. That is not the example we must set and I really hope that these behaviours will be severely sanctioned by the Presidency. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u17	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u18	Mr President, I begin my speech with a few comments to frame this debate on interceptions which, in fact, has existed for a long time. Let's start with the principles, since I feel like we're starting from the end here. The system of interceptions must be framed at the constitutional level. We have two basic standards in this area in our fundamental Charter, starting with Article 15. I also read not about the Northern League's electoral programme, but about the decision of the United Criminal Court no. 51 of 2020, which recalls a decision of the Constitutional Court. There are two distinct interests that stand out in the area of wiretapping. There is that inherent in the freedom and secrecy of communications, recognized as connatural to the rights of personality defined as inviolable; and that related to the need to prevent and repress crimes; also an interest of constitutional importance. According to this judgment, the values of the personality induce constitutional jurisprudence to believe that the vital space surrounding the person is a necessary part, and that is why the need for repression of the crimes corresponds to a constitutionally relevant primary public interest, the satisfaction of which is absolutely unavoidable, but this in compliance with the inviolable right to freedom and secrecy of communications. All that to say what? That precisely for this reason the matter of interceptions is very delicate and complex: for one verse there is the interest in suppressing crime; for another, there is the interest in respect for the human sphere and confidentiality. For these reasons, the subject of interceptions has given rise to complex discussions and debates on the subject have been raised for many years. We believe that such a difficult matter must be dealt with with with balance and weighting, and certainly not - and this really is a total abuse of a prerogative of the Government - with a decree-law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We can play with the terms on the newspapers, on the stages and at the sports bar, but if for one towards the necessity and urgency of a reform of justice is now part of the linguistic heritage of so many electoral programs - which have remained unimplemented - it must be specified that it is not the same necessity and urgency of which Article 77 of the Constitution speaks, because the latter allows the adoption of legislation with a measure that compresses the times of the debate. And this is not the case: if the urgency of a reform of justice exists, today the extraordinary urgency of amending the legislation on interceptions is not there. This is shown for tabulas. The very fact that it is foreseen in the same provision to postpone the entry into force of the norm - therefore it does not enter into force at the time of its publication but a few months later - weakens the requirements for issuing a decree-law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is very serious. Beware of the unconstitutionality, which yesterday was also raised by President Ostellari. Colleagues, applying unconstitutional rules on the basis of unconstitutional justice instruments - more than in all matters - has very serious effects. The theme had already been raised on the well-known so-called scrubber provision (laws are serious things and it is bad to use these terms for a law). What did an unconstitutional pronunciation mean? It has meant that some people have suffered unlawful detention. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is the gravity of justice. Let's go back to wiretapping. Anyone who looks at a scheme that shows the current use of interceptions and the use of interceptions according to the new standard, also considering the entry into force, will know very well when to start the procedures and works. The interceptions are evidence on which convictions can be established. On this subject, however, the debate in the Commission has reached levels I would say Kafkiani, which have left enormous doubts and doubts. There were three fundamental nodes. The first is that it has not been mentioned, it has been oversaw, it has been pretended not to hear it, it is about very serious statements in the Commission by private companies supplying intercepting technologies. Because colleagues, citizens, all of you, intercepts are physically carried out by private companies and the files are in their possession. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These companies have declared the impossibility or in any case the extreme difficulty to confer the data in original, that is the authentic data. Following the hearings, another important point emerged: perhaps it was not necessary for the prosecutors to say so, because very often it also emerges from the reading of newspapers. The confidentiality of the intercepts made and the non-disclosure of the same is not a solid principle within our structure, also from the technical point of view; for the interceptions it is a bit like for the secrets: when you say it to more than one person is already public. On a verse, then, it is right to repress the crimes, but it is not right for the private life of the intercepted to go to the public. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Those who are in this Chamber will remember the events that happened in the previous legislature to President Azzolini, who also lost the Presidency of the Budget Commission and was the subject of media interest, beyond the judicial interest, on the basis of supposed words uttered by the same and considered abusive towards some religious. The seriousness of those words was considered heavier than the crime that was being contested. This happens when the interception is leaked and to date there is no system to ensure that this does not happen. When a reference was made to this situation in the Commission, it was said that even with the telematic civil process it started a little 'without knowing exactly how it worked. However, if we compare a system of technical management of interceptions to the telematic civil process we must consider that we are talking about two different worlds: often in civil law economic interests are at stake that also affect the personal world, but in the criminal sector it affects personal freedom, so we cannot adopt a system without being 100% sure that everything works. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The second concern arose because we spent hours in the Commission between suspensions, referrals and hesitations - not at the request of the opposition, because the majority blocked itself - to examine an amendment. Well, during all that series of events and referrals, the famous mouse really came to give birth. But I wonder if that arm wrestle was normal or if there was anything else behind it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The conclusion we have reached, however, is very simple given that there was talk of conflicting interests, on the one hand to suppress crimes and, on the other hand, to protect the human sphere. The result is that the right to freedom and secrecy has been trampled underfoot: an amendment by the rapporteur, approved in the Commission, in fact extended the use of interceptions improperly, illegitimately and inappropriately. Instead, interest in prosecuting crimes has been repressed. Mr Pillon in his explanation of vote will certainly explain this point better, because you wanted to extend the interceptions to everything, but not to crimes of child pornography. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You wanted to extend the use of such an invasive instrument, but perhaps the police state and the rule of law for you exist sobbingly depending on the interest you want to protect. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u19	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u20	Mr President, this is a debate on confidence, therefore, rather than on the merit aspects of the measure, about which many colleagues of the Forza Italia Group have spoken, highlighting the problems, the dangers and the inadequacy of the rules which were laboriously defined yesterday, in the way that we have seen nothing but transparent and clear, I believe that we should focus precisely on trusting the Government, because this is a vote of confidence to whom and what. While we vote for trust, there are people who have given birth to this Government, and who, instead, with press conferences, announcements and proclamations in fact pick it up, which I personally not only do not mind, but I share because this Government does not appreciate it. I am talking above all about the peripecies of Senator Renzi, who one day stood up in this Chamber, when he was a member of the Democratic Party when the party he founded and which today is still running did not exist, and surprised everyone by announcing (he was very critical of the 5 Stars) that instead the Conte-a government was to be born. Now he discusses televisions about Count who does the leader of different majorities, which we can say, but that certainly cannot say Renzi, the one who baptized this example of government transformation, except then pretend to repent later. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Count's conduct is certainly uncomfortable and despicable. In Italy there have been many Presidents of the Council of more Governments, but in the same legislature there had never been a President of the Council of different majorities, alternatives and even conflicting with each other. But Renzi has baptized this formula; today he discovers the presidentialism and election of the President of the Council: come to lecture on the benches of the center-right on these issues that we have been supporting for years and that we want to introduce into Italian legislation. For Italy, the Berlusconi governments and the centre-right introduced the election of the President of the Council into a constitutional reform, which, unfortunately, did not approve of a confirmed referendum. Therefore, latecomers are always pleased, but they cannot claim any credibility in making instrumental proposals, which we do not believe. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Also because, Mr President, this is a debate on trust: we read in the newspapers that majority summits are taking place - I do not know which majority - on electoral law and we read that they want proportional representation: permanent suk, constant negotiation of posts and subordinates. We will oppose proportional representation, which is the victory of non-choice and the victory of transformism. We must form the coalitions first, let the voters know what the programs are, what are the indications of government: this was the spirit with which Berlusconi founded and formed the centerright twenty-five years ago and animated it. Beyond the numbers of this political phase, the center-right has its own unity, its own history and its presidentialist vocation, which in the various strands of the Italian political right and the political story of Berlusconi has always found, not only purposes, but also implemented norms, dear Renzi. So, we don't take lessons from the liars of late presidentialism who don't believe what they say. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I also tell my colleagues in Italy Viva that they will vote for the confidence soon, a party that did not exist when the Government was born and then we will see in the field what numbers and what representativeness it will have: how can a presidentialist petition be reconciled with proportional electoral law? Your concern is in fact that of the access quota, because maybe 5% is too high for those who had 40% and has squandered a capital of consent precisely because of its lack of credibility. Then nothing but responsible to the rescue! And if someone, elected with the electoral mandate of Forza Italia, thought today, instead of changing (because they have to change), that change is the rescue to Renzi and Conte, he would show a miserable attitude, President, other than responsible! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Let us be clear, because respect for the electoral mandate and the coherence of behaviour remain an essential value in Italian democracy. On the other hand, in this House there has been a commodity of positions of government, of positions of power and a government has been created that has brought Italy to the last place in the economic ranking. I'm not even talking about lawlessness and wiretapping. How do you vote for the government's confidence in the country's economic disaster? How do you vote for trust in the Government of Transformation? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] To the late presidentialists we give appointment to the elections, because the country will sooner or later pronounce and sweep away liars and transformers and give to the centerright the Government of Italy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u22	Mr President, with the conversion into law of the decree-law on interceptions that we add to vote, we have achieved a balance between the right to privacy, the right to defence and the sacrosanct right of all honest citizens to have a state that contrasts criminals with all the tools at your disposal, first of all the interceptions and the computer pickers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But that's not what I want to talk about. That's not why I took the floor. I want to talk to you about something serious that happened yesterday in the Justice Commission. I am not referring so much to the occupation of the House of the Commission by colleagues in the League, but to the very serious accusation that has been made that we have not voted for their amendment. My colleagues in the League said, first yesterday in the Commission and then in the House with their Parent Company, that we would have the political will to make investigations against paedophiles and those who abuse children ineffective. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] This accusation is so serious that I can't let it go unpunished. [[Senator Saponara's comments.]] Let's come and restore the truth, then. The amendment in question is 2.41, first signed by Senator Pillon. It provides for the extension of the possibility of using interceptions also for the offences referred to in Articles 600-a, 600-b and 600-c. These are the crimes provided for in the penal code to punish child prostitution, child pornography and the detention of pornography. Too bad, however, that those who wrote this amendment did not know that Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Procedure already provides for the possibility of intercepting those crimes that are punished with more than five years' imprisonment. Therefore, for the offences referred to in Articles 600-a and 600-b, which are the subject of the amendment, it is already possible to use the interceptions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] So, it's clear that we couldn't make law a provision that contains two such Markan errors, two red pencil errors, two rejection errors on the lawyer's exam. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What was still useful in this amendment was the extension of the interceptability to 600-c, i.e. to the possession of pornographic material. That is why we have offered the minority the opportunity to make together a bill that would increase the penalties for this crime, bringing them, precisely, over the five years to allow interceptions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How did we propose this? We have tabled an agenda, and do you know what happened to it? The President of the Commission rejected it and considered it inadmissible. Do you know which party the President of the Justice Commission belongs to? To the League! So, what are we talking about? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I could stop here, but the accusation that we've been made irritates me and annoys me so much that I want to go further. I mean, to the presenters of this amendment, who have certified and handed over to the imperishable acts of memory, that you are donkeys! You're donkeys! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Pillon]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u23	Senator Crucioli, speak to the Presidency, even with this epithet if you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u24	CRUCIOLI (M5S). The relevant political fact, however, is not the ignorance of the League senators. No, that's not it: the politically relevant fact is that the League is available, on the contrary, prone to mystification, is prone to exploitation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This leads me to shed light on an aspect on which I have been meditating for some time: I believe that the Movimento 5 Stars must finally have the courage to recognize their error, the error of having ruled for too long with the League. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, I cannot apologize for this to the citizens and voters, because I am not the legal representative of the 5 Star Movement, but I want to do it on my behalf. In front of this House, which represents the nation, I apologise because late I understood what the League represents. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Lately I understood the nature of a party that exploits what is most sacred to a community, which should go beyond political colors, namely religious symbols and the protection of children. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u25	Senator Crucioli, I have not interrupted it, but I do not think it is appropriate to use the language to be used in Parliament to address directly with an epithet to colleagues. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u26	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico statale - Ignazio Calvi - of Finale Emilia, in the province of Modena, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u27	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 161 of 30 December 2019 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u30	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Secretary, I immediately announce that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the adoption of this measure, although of course we cannot be fully satisfied with its content for the reasons we have already expressed. This dissatisfaction not only emerged yesterday and before, but also in the course of the Commission's work, contrary to what someone said yesterday, particularly in this House. It is not true that among the majority forces present at the very important meetings that have allowed to achieve results - with the serious confrontation to which we are accustomed - the Italia Viva Group - I was present - said that there was unanimous agreement, because it remained a topic that has been the subject of the debate these days, of which I will speak just now. Doubly sorry that these words were said in particular by those who actually held particularly high positions; I think they should have maintained a higher profile and better respected the truth of things, but, above all, they should have respected the opinions of others and, in this case, of us in Italy Viva, which in essence we demand, we have demanded and we will demand respect for the rules, the people, their rights and the guarantees prepared by our judicial system and our Constitution. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We do not intend to compromise on this, either today or tomorrow. I must say, in fact, that on that occasion we pointed out our position on a particular subject on which I will come back later. We come to the merits of the measure. The subject has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate involving lawyers, magistrates and the legislator himself for years. That of interceptions and their use is in fact very delicate matter both for the interests at stake - among other things, often, even conflicting with each other - both and especially because of the technological process that invests, which sometimes also makes it difficult to contemperate the interests I mentioned earlier. I would like to point out, for example, that we in Italy, Viva, had tabled two amendments. Well, in discussing with the offices and with the secretary himself - to whom I acknowledge the absolute willingness to dialogue, to confront and to be fair - I myself realized that one of the two amending proposals was in fact inapplicable for the systems that govern the matter of interception today (the companies told us very clearly during the hearings). The other proposal, which in my opinion could have been adopted, essentially equated the messaging acquired during the interceptions with the so-called communications, thus applying that discipline. This amendment would probably have been easier to implement, but we have not even gone unpunished, realizing the difficulty in its application and we have said that perhaps it will be done further by trying to improve the system. A further problem arises in this context: that of accessibility to the personal data of an individual, of his conversations; in a word, of his private life, of his intimacy. This problem is given by the ease with which information is disseminated today, which imposes and has imposed the best possible regulation of the matter. Certainly with this measure very important progress has been made; in some way remarkable results have been achieved, on which there has been discussion for some time. For example, it distinguishes between the relevant and irrelevant content of the intercepted communications and also assigns the public prosecutor the responsibility to judge this relevance and the responsibility to possibly keep the relevant material. All this clearly expresses greater guarantees in favour of the right of defence. Alongside this important step forward, there has finally been an extremely important subject: what I mentioned about confidentiality and secrecy. We are aware of the damage that has been done in various circumstances when material that has been intercepted has been published which, although not relevant in the context of the criminal proceedings in which it was acquired, has been disclosed with very serious prejudice to the right to privacy and the right to privacy of persons, sometimes put publicly to the sedan. Well, with the measure we are dealing with, it has finally been remedied and in fact it has been foreseen the secrecy of everything that is irrelevant, that therefore cannot be published and must be kept in an archive whose responsibility falls to the public prosecutor. This is an extremely important fact, in my opinion, which allows us to make great progress in the protection, which has always been claimed, of the confidentiality and confidentiality of personal data. In short, the subject has been much better regulated, despite the objective difficulties encountered in the course of the work that - I would like to point out - have not been at all easy precisely because of the delicacy of the matter dealt with. In this regard, it is necessary to reject to the sender the accusations of those who said that someone wanted to slow down the work for a search for visibility instrumentally. Those who make these statements show the conviction that they are the custodian of the truth; they show that they want to impose their thoughts on such a delicate matter, without the slightest respect for the guarantees provided in our judicial system, even the minimum ones. In this respect, I do not apologise to colleagues for the repeated interruptions that have taken place in the course of the work which, as you know, have been largely attributable to me. I do not apologize because those who know me (so you too) know that I was working to defend those principles that you yourself defend. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] I do not apologise for this, because I believe that it was necessary to impose at least the minimum respect for those principles and guarantees. I don't do it out of disrespect, but for the reasons I just told you. You know, in fact, that I always have the utmost respect for all my colleagues and I would never allow myself to discuss opinions different from mine: right or wrong that I consider them, I always have respect for everyone. I demand, however, that we show equal respect for our thinking on this sensitive matter. It should also be made clear that the non-shared point during the comparison thus closed by majority was that of the usability in different processes of the interceptions collected in an autonomous procedure. The matter has been the subject of wide-ranging debate for years, with judgments of different content and scope, up to the judgment that Mrs Stefani has already referred to here. This is not just any judgment, but a judgment of the Court of Cassation in joined sections of January 2020 that had finally put order in that matter. Since a principle of law has been fully established, I believe that we should have adhered to those principles. That is why we fought in that debate and discussion within the majority, intending to apply the principles of that judgment, which although not being the best and not respecting my thinking - perhaps I have a bit of professional deformation because you know that I am a lawyer - however surely could have put more order than what has been done. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] It has been said that some majority forces have considered the principle enshrined in the Cassation to be too strict. The intention was to depart from that principle in the name of an unsatisfying justiceism - I believe - which claimed to mortify the guarantees of the citizens and the decision of the Supreme Court itself. For these reasons, work has slowed down and a compromise solution has been reached which, although not fully satisfactory in the opinion of those who speak to it, still allows protection of the guarantees, and also the use of interceptions acquired in another process where there are particularly serious crimes. In any case, we will continue our work to protect citizens' guarantees. Italy Viva will never lend itself to mortify the fundamental principles of our judicial system and will continue to fight for the affirmation of justice that is just and appropriate to the principles that our Constitution provides. Therefore, in this context - it is not a threat, nor a warning, but only a principle that we intend to apply and continue to apply - I confirm the vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u33	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy will vote against the confidence demanded by the Government and will vote against a government paralyzed by internal quarrels, undecided about everything and undermined by the work of a saboteur who every day does not lose opportunity to undermine the credibility of the President of the Council and of the entire majority after being its main advocate. We will vote against this confidence because we believe that Italians deserve to be governed in a very different way from what, unfortunately, in recent months has characterized the majority and the government. In fact, you are paralyzed by your divisions and your inability to inspire yourself in a common project. Everything divides you apart from the will to prevent the Italian people from expressing themselves freely on the choice of those who must govern it. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] That's the truth. Even when, in a thousand difficulties, you come to make a decision, you do so by remaining deaf to the alarms that are addressed to you on every side. As in this case, on the subject today at our very delicate examination, as many of those who have spoken in general debate and, in a wonderful way, Senator Garnero Santanchè, remembering that fundamental principles guaranteed by our Constitution are at stake here, that you trample, remaining deaf to the alarm of the Data Protection Supervisor, to the appeals of the judiciary and many prosecutors of the Republic who have come to the Commission. Dear Senator Cucca, what compromise? You have also listened to the magistrates who have come to explain to us how unprepared our prosecutors are to face this challenge, which requires a very high specialization that in most of the prosecutors is not there! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And yet you went on and on and on, without listening to the Bill. The representatives of lawyers have also come to the Commission to explain to us how difficult it is at this time to be able to implement this reform. You have not listened above all to the companies - which are and will be responsible for the collection, through the trojans, of the private conversations of the citizens - who have explained to us that there is no guarantee of the genuineness of the test when the conversations picked up will be transferred to the proxy. All this has been told to us by the Data Protection Officer and confirmed to us by the main companies in charge of proceeding with the interceptions; an alarm that you have not heard. There is even more: you know very well that there is no system to track the operations carried out on devices by companies and operators. There is no system, to the point that we have come to say that the only safe system to transfer data from these companies to prosecutors today is to concentrate them in a DVD and then hand it over, materially and manually, to the prosecutor of the Republic, without however that there is a system to certify how you got to that DVD. A final file is given without any way of certifying all intermediate operations, which have led to it. To this we add, ladies and gentlemen - and the Italians will judge you for this - that these viruses that are inoculated into every device that every citizen has at his disposal, even in the simple phone, transform every phone not only into a transmitter so on the other side it is possible to listen to what we say, it is possible to look from the hole of the lock of every Italian citizen; I repeat that is not yet the problem. The problem is that each of our mobile phones, in fact, is not only transformed into a transmitter, but also becomes a receiver. It is not the prosecutor of the Republic, it is not the judicial police who proceed directly to these operations, they are third-party companies, private companies that can inoculate on the cell phone of each of us files, fake conversations, fake images, fake photographs. What if for political hatred, antipathy or any kind of opposition, these societies will inoculate in the cell phone of a private citizen compromising photos, false, false conversations or erase evidence in favor? There is no system today that can guarantee immunity from this danger. Then you understand very well how it would have been appropriate to accept the invitation, the alarm that everyone has raised, to postpone the entry into force of such a delicate and so important reform until the time when on the one hand the prosecutors will be able to face this task and, on the other hand, scientific progress will be able to guarantee the defense against the danger of a "great brother" that truly rests on all of us. As if that weren't enough, nothing but strengthening the secret! We have listened to the representatives of the press in the Justice Commission: the right to report, given the changes you have made with the decree-law then confirmed also by the mega-amendment, will make it possible to disclose to the public any results deriving from interceptions and captures, exposing people to the public and transforming the press very often into a real media deception towards a citizen who unfortunately had to stumble in evidence created artificially and falsely against him. Who's gonna pay him back? Who will compensate that citizen for the lost affections, for the lost work, for discrediting public opinion? This is the great responsibility that you today, by voting on this decree-law, are assuming because, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of outsourcing investigations by entrusting such a delicate instrument to foreign societies, is the harbinger of such risks that everyone realizes that you are making a leap in the dark, violating the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution in defense of freedom of communication, private freedom and inviolability of the domicile of every Italian citizen. That is why we will also vote against trust. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Vitali. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u36	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although there has been a lunar debate over this decree-law over the last few hours, it seems useful to me to describe its substance in a nutshell. It is undeniable that telephone and environmental interceptions are a formidable resource for investigators and that, for certain crimes, they are the main, if not the only, instrument through which evidence and evidence can be acquired. The need to refine and improve its use corresponds to the need of the State to be more effective in the pursuit of crimes that have a great impact on society, such as those of a mafia and corruptive nature; on the other hand, when it is used to intercept, it confines itself to the private sphere of citizens in a profound and invasive way and this requires a thorough reflection on the complex of guarantees against those who, directly or indirectly, are intercepted. The legislator has intervened on this sensitive subject several times and is again called to balance three equally important requirements: the secrecy of investigations, the protection of privacy, the right to information. The Orlando law had a solid facility. With this decree-law and with the subsequent work in the Commission, we have made the necessary corrections, first of all wanted by the legal practitioners, who have provided us with numerous suggestions and observations during the hearings. First of all, it was necessary to extend the entry into force of the Orlando law in order to allow the competent offices to reorganise themselves in terms of structures and personnel, especially in the area of digitisation. As always, in fact, it is not enough to write good laws, if they are not accompanied by a path that realizes, in concrete terms, and not only theoretically, the guidelines drawn up by Parliament. The Government has assured us that the technologies have been updated and the two months of extension are justified by the need to adapt training and organization by the proxy offices, in the case of changes to the initial text of the decree-law. These are the reasons for the two-month extension. Secondly, in order to ensure the correctness of the operations, the text of the code of criminal procedure in force before the reform has been restored, while preserving the rules governing the use of the trojan and the destination of the interceptive material to the digital archive established at the prosecutors. In this regard, we have extended the possibility of using the so-called trojan also for the interception of crimes against the public administration committed by public service officers as well as by public officials. In addition, the role of dominus in the execution of operations has been returned to the public prosecutor, including to ensure that no damaging expressions of reputation or sensitive data are transcribed. As a form of guarantee, the possibility has been restored that defenders, who can extract copies of the interceptions, will also participate in the removal hearing. Thirdly, some provisions of the rules implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure have been amended concerning the interception archive and the technical requirements of the computer programs for interceptions by trojans, to be defined through decrees of the Minister of Justice. There have also been some important changes in the Commission's justice policy, which I am not here to list for the short time available. Among the most relevant, for example, there is the inclusion among the crimes for which intercepts are allowed those committed by the so-called mob method or in order to facilitate mob associations, which had escaped in the first draft of the decree-law. Finally, the inclusion of the deposit of interceptions should be highlighted, as well as during the precautionary procedure and after the investigation has been concluded, also in the case of the immediate judgment (another thing that had escaped from being remedied in the Commission's amending phase). Following the approval of the decree-law by the Council of Ministers, in January a judgment of the United Criminal Chambers of the Court of Cassation on the use of interceptions as evidence in proceedings other than those for which they were authorised was given. This is an interpretative judgment on legal disputes, which establishes the principle of law that use may be permitted for offences for which interceptions are admissible. That is what has been translated into an amendment by the rapporteur in the Commission which has made a principle of the Court of Cassation into law. We must not forget that the judgment of the United Criminal Chambers of the Court of Cassation intervened precisely because the rules were unclear and there was a need for a clear law. Today we have a clear law on how to use wiretapping for crimes other than those for which they were authorized. Mr President, I shall conclude. This is not a text to be voted on for the sake of the Fatherland; it is the result of a work of weaving the different needs, which has seen this majority meet and discuss - even until late at night - arriving at a synthesis. It is a job that everyone has contributed to. Delegitimize the measure publicly and then vote on it, expressing the confidence to that same Government that in the backstory of the newspapers claims to want to drop, is a type of policy that I do not like and that flies low. This vote of confidence on the so-called Bonafede decree is indirectly a vote of confidence also towards the Minister of Justice, who has shown that he knows how to return to his steps, reflect and arrive at a mediation, without struggling on the road of blackmail and threats for an additional title. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alfonso]] I must bitterly note that the beating of the last twenty-four hours has, unfortunately, obscured an excellent job. I consider this measure the first effort made to reform, step by step, the system of criminal justice in our country. For this reason, I announce the favorable vote of Liberi and Equal to the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree of Minister Bonafede. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u39	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, this measure is important and necessary for us and it has been appreciated - it has not been said, let us remember - during the hearings by all the parties. It has been considered an improvement measure by almost all the audit bodies in the Commission, which have raised issues, but which - I repeat - have all considered it to be better than the existing legislation. This is a measure that we have amended by collecting an important part of the suggestions made during the hearings. For example - I want to say to Senator Balboni, who is not there now - the prosecutors asked us two months to adapt the tools to the organization of the archives. This measure - as my colleagues Mr Cucca and Mr Grasso have just mentioned - is the result of a positive comparison in the majority, which has produced a positive synthesis, demonstrating that the majority, when discussing merit, finds a synthesis and finds a positive one. This is a measure that served and serves to regulate the use of intercepts and pickers. This legislation creates the conditions to prevent interceptions that have nothing to do with investigations from becoming public - in recent years unfortunately it has happened often - with a violation of the privacy of people and their families. It is a misconception that former Minister Orlando had already begun to deal with. Today, with this decree-law we create the system conditions to fight it. We decide to give the prosecutors, no longer to the police, the responsibility to distinguish the intercepts functional to the investigation for which they have been authorized, then entered in the file, from those not relevant, that must be inserted in an archive at the prosecutors that must remain secret. The discussion of these days has allowed us both to sanction and strengthen the secrecy of the non-relevant interceptions and to allow in this context the possibility for lawyers to access them, guaranteeing the possibility to request to insert in the file other materials, therefore guaranteeing the full right to the defence. Therefore, avoiding the publication of interceptions other than those used for investigations is a first objective achieved by the law that we will approve today. The other objective, as Senator D'Alfonso recalled yesterday, was to ensure a balance between citizens' rights and the needs of those who investigate in the discipline that regulates the use of interceptions and captures. They do not change with this provision - despite the things I have heard - the crimes for which interceptions and the use of trojans can be authorized. The issue that has been stirred up on several occasions in the debate in the Commission and in this House is the use of interceptions that may prefigure offences other than the one for which they were authorised. It is right that attention should be paid to avoiding the so-called drifting interceptions; less understandable is the idea that, at a time when an authorised interception foreshadows the existence of a different crime, one can pretend nothing. I think the balance found on the wiretap is right. In order to be used for different offences, interceptions must be an important and indispensable element for a process, and cover offences for which it is already possible to use interceptions that provide penalties from five years up. Serious crimes, therefore, in the face of which one could not - and should not - ignore anything. This rule, it cannot, it must not and it is not extended to the use of the most invasive instrument of the trojan that remains - I think rightly - only for serious crimes of mafia, terrorism and against public administration. I am well aware - I have heard this in this debate - that the idea of using the same instruments of investigation and contrast that are used against mafias also against corruption is not shared by everyone. I understand and understand this importance of Forza Italia, which has always been consistent in trying to explain that it was necessary to keep the two issues separate. I less understand the League, which voted for the scramble, where this principle is enshrined and it is stated that the instruments for combating the Mafia are also extended to the fight against crimes against public administration and corruption. What we are voting on today is therefore a clear law, which defines the field of the use of interceptions and defines limits and criteria, enhancing more - I add - the role of defence, making it more protagonist in delicate moments such as that of the execution of the precautionary measure and immediate judgment. I say this with great sincerity: the PD has helped to improve the text in terms of guarantees of defence and secrecy. Those who have spoken in these days of subalternity of the Democratic Party to justiceism are mistaken: let us read this provision and read the amendments that have been adopted. Yesterday someone tried, out of pure propaganda will, to use the issue of combating child pornography by trying to create an absurd division in this House between those who would like and those who would not want to fight them. That is not the case, and we all know that. Even today, all the instruments of capture and interception can and have been used to prosecute those who produce and disseminate child pornography. Sequestrations and searches are also permitted for the crime of detention of child pornography; there is no interception because the maximum penalty for that crime is three years. That's the truth. If you want to work to improve the law and the contrast to child pornography, well, we are there, but just exploit these events, these tragedies. Victim children must be respected! Their suffering must not be used. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] You have already done so on Bibbiano and it has not brought good to those who wanted to exploit that investigation politically. Mr President, the PD Group will vote in favour of this measure, which introduces rules and rules that guarantee and protect citizens first of all, but also the search for truth. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u42	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who have been to Syracuse have certainly visited the Ear of Dionysus. Legend has it that a tyrant used to lock up opponents inside that cave and opponents thought they were finally left in peace, at least in prison, but it was not because, although they were locked up there, they were still spied on and the tyrant, through a very hidden channel, could continue to listen to their conversations and go pick up his other opponents. You're doing worse than Dionysus. 11:08 a.m. (Pillon followed). According to the Max Planck Society in Italy there are 76 interceptions per 100,000 inhabitants; France has 23 per 100,000, Germany 15, the United Kingdom six and the United States have 0.5 interceptions per 100,000 inhabitants. We are the most spyed country in the world. Something's still wrong, other than Dionysus! As my colleague Stefani says, we thought we were in a rule of law and instead we are in a police state. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This whole debate has taken place in a surreal climate. As for the method, we had two weeks of work, we had given up all our amendments except for about twenty, with the obvious aim of helping you improve the text. We had given space to your constant requests for postponement, suspension, rethinking and clarification; with enormous patience, while being opposed, we tried to make a contribution to improving the decree-law under consideration, but you did not accept an amendment from the opposition either. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You also made a mistake: you rejected an amendment, then you realized that you needed it, and then you asked us to vote on it again and all because, instead of reading the content of the amendments, you simply read the name of the person who signed them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As far as the substance is concerned, you have told us that the measure under discussion is a financial invariance. Never greater lie. There are new servers, contracts to increase wiretapping due to the increase in crimes for which they may be expected, the storage and storage of files, the transfer of data and you want us to believe that all this is at no cost? We will see it, when the decree-law under consideration will be challenged for unconstitutionality and will be swept away exactly as it has already happened for other laws made with the feet. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Caliendo]] We asked you to at least secure telephone and telematic interceptions, banning any spread before the final sentence, as should happen in a civil country, where trials are done in court and not in newsstands or talkshows. Nothing to do: you have allowed the spread of any interception, even the most intimate and personal, even the one that is not related to the facts of indictment before the trial and before the final judgment passed in court. ( [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] This will result in what is already happening and that is people ruined forever by the trials done in newspapers and newsstands. You have also heard, ladies and gentlemen, because you too had your ears, not only those of Dionysus, that because of technical problems - I quote from quotes - the genuineness and reliability of what is intercepted is not guaranteed. Are you kidding me? With the risk of thwarting entire trials for mafia and terrorism on the one hand, or of condemning innocent people on the other? And you lightly vote on this decree-law? Are you kidding me? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] Any provincial lawyer will drop entire trials on the basis of this mere relief. We are told that Trojans can also upload, i.e. upload files to devices of every nature and you told us, with a smile on our lips, that those who do it commit crime. Thank you, even those who steal gold bars from the Bank of Italy commit crime, but perhaps it is better to put a gate, a guard or armored doors. This is what we want for the confidential data of Italians and not that there is a simple crime, because it is forbidden to steal, but it seems to me that as a rule it is not very respected. All the auditors have requested a postponement, all of them, starting with the Republic Attorney. And what did you grant? Two months. What do we do in two months? We had asked with our amendments for the training of staff, the training of lawyers and magistrates; we had asked only to limit the interceptions to very serious crimes and instead you wanted to keep your head down. You have kept us firm - I address Senator Cucca, who I do not see in the Chamber - for three days on an amendment by Senator Grasso in total contrast to the ban on pick-up interceptions, sanctioned by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation by judgment No 51 of 2 January 2020: he is not a judge of peace in Pralboino of 1934, we are talking about the United Chambers and a judgment of January 2020. What did you do? It was enough to move a comma and everything magically went away: trawl even without the connection, with an obvious unconstitutionality. And go on like this. You have admitted intercepts for the postman stealing a photocopy from the office machine, but you have stubbornly refused to allow interceptions for those who procure or hold child pornography. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Shame! PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). The Meter association of Don Fortunato of Noto tells us that only in the first four months of the year 6 million photographs and 102,000 videos containing child pornography were uploaded on the Internet. Just yesterday, Dr Monteleone, the prosecutor of the pool on crimes against children, told us that - I quote - telematic interceptions are an irreplaceable tool for the fight against child pornography. But how? Because of the flaw in a photocopy, yes, and for pedophiles, no? Shame on you! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senators Cirinna and Mirabelli]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Shame! Asini! PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would like to reply to Senator Crucioli: did you not like the amendment technically? For God's sake, though, colleague, here is the penal code, we work on it, we could rewrite it. I don't see professors of law in the ranks of the Movimento 5 Stars, indeed, you really had one, but he escaped from despair and came here with us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, if you are convinced that you would have been able to do better, please, you could compare it, but not with a good agenda just to wrap the fish. Have you stopped the measure that would allow cameras to be put in kindergartens because your government does not express opinions, and we should trust you for an agenda? Let's not make fun of each other, ladies and gentlemen. Be careful, by the way, to call someone a donkey. Because if you call us a donkey, you have to explain to us what you think of a minister who does not distinguish between dole and guilt and who was considered undesirable by the orders of lawyers from half of Italy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] You must tell us, if we are donkeys, what do you think of a minister who said that there are no innocent people in prisons, when there are 27,000 of them, from 1992 to 2018, that they cost 700 million euros to the state treasury. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Perosino]] So, easy on the words. You messed up. You've made a mess. You've done everything in the hands of the Italians. And I ask you, why? To what end? For what purpose? I'm telling you, not at all. Do you know why? Because you were there when we heard that, with the advent of 5G, all this stuff will go into thin air. It'll be technically useless! So, we spent money, we committed Parliament, we made a decree that will end up in thin air. What are we working for, if not for damage to the treasury and damage to honest citizens? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a stone feast in this debate: a minister who has never even put the tip of the nose in this House during this debate. All this disaster has a name and a surname: Minister Alfonso Bonafede, who, with an obstinacy worthy of every best undertaking, has imposed a deranged line and devoid of any logic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote for trust. Because we, unlike others, when we understood the justiceist and handcuffed drift of this Ministry, we left the armchairs, opening the crisis. Others, on the other hand, prefer to make the crisis in Porta a Porta, from Vespa, and then come to the Chamber in the morning, as good schoolchildren, to vote for trust for fear of elections. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with a sentence by Mr Orwell: They could bring everything we had said, done or thought to the very last detail. But what we had at the bottom of our hearts and that followed unknown paths even to ourselves remained and will remain impregnable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Many congratulations]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Honesty! Honesty!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Social Economic High School "Giordano Bianchi Dottula" of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u46	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in Italy, every year, a thousand people go to prison unjustly. Not according to them, but according to the Ministry's data. Each year, in Italy, these unjust detentions cost at least 30 million euros. A law has been in force for five years, requiring the Ministry of Justice to account for these figures, but we only have them through a private association, the one against judicial errors. This is because the Ministry does not apply this law of 2015. Every year, in Italy, you pay compensation of 100 million euros for too long processes. Tens of millions more (at least 100) are compensations for imprisonments under conditions that do not comply with international law. Every year, in Italy, hundreds of children are stolen from their families with completely insufficient motivations and, sometimes, as we have read, with falsified and manufactured evidence. Well, under these conditions, what is the priority for this Government, for Minister Bonafede, who is guilty of being absent? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Rivolta]] Guiltyly absent because if he thinks it is appropriate to make a decree-law, which must be adopted on occasions of extraordinary necessity and urgency, he should come at least once: at least today! Instead, he has found time to make demonstrations against the government of which he is a member, demonstrations against a court of the Senate: for this reason he has found time. What is the priority for Minister Bonafede? Do not put an end to the trials with the cancellation of the prescription and put other people in the condition of going to jail unjustly [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , through the transformation of the telephones substantially of every Italian to spies in the houses, in the bedrooms, in the sphere of maximum intimacy of the Italians, with a provision that clearly violates at least three articles of the Constitution, beginning with Article 14, which establishes that the domicile is inviolable. My house, however, is inviolable, if I, my wife or one of my family [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] has the misfortune to fall into the categories of the "enemies of the people," that is, those who can be subjected without any limit to the integral violation of the private sphere, of the domicile and of the intimacy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And what are the "enemies of the people"? All civil servants, who are blamed for the fact, are working for the state. Those who do wrong things must be punished, but everyone's freedom cannot be destroyed in the name of someone committing crimes, because there has always been someone who has committed crimes with any regime, even with the cruelest penalties. In addition to the State employees, the new "enemies of the people" are members of "terrible" categories: tobacconists, postmen, netturbines, trampmen, family doctors, nurses, doctors and nurses of hospitals affiliated also non-states, janitors, porters of state stables, security guards, employees of telephone companies, employees of RAI (probably also of other televisions because they work on concessions), pharmacists and even priests - who among other things would be entitled to confessional secrecy - since, when they celebrate a marriage, they exercise a public function and therefore must be interceptable. To these are added also the managers of bathing establishments, the employees of Trenitalia, those who do road rescue, the highway boxes and others. Well, the phone of all these people can be turned into a spy in the house, which not only transmits everything on the phone, but which, even when turned off, is able to transmit the images and sounds of every moment of the day. Consequently, it will be like a contagion, since all the people who fall into the categories of the "enemies of the people" that I have listed - it will be a few million Italians - attend other people: for example, they will go to confession and, if the priest is not intercepted too, everything they say can be used. We know well what happens to so many interceptions that are reported in the newspapers and, as has been said widely, we also know that all these data end up in the hands of private agencies, often with servers abroad: hence a mine of sources to blackmail, to destroy people and even to do porn revenge, which is then said to want to repress. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] All this violates that inviolability of the domicile, correspondence and any communication established by the Constitution, that Constitution of which then someone stands as a great defender. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is always the Constitution that, in Article 111, speaks of fair trial: but how can there be fair trial when the State has information about everything you have said and done and, perhaps, about something that you have neither said nor done - there is no guarantee of the genuineness of the data, as has been said during the hearings in the Justice Commission - and which has been falsely introduced on the mobile phone? How can there be equality between a lawyer and the state that knows everything about everything and has access to everything? What good is this mass of billions and billions of data that end up in the hands of the State? What's that for? Repressing crime? No, because there is too much information: billions of news are useless, because nobody knows how to navigate. But, if someone targets a person and wants to destroy them, in this way he will certainly do so because, even if he is not among the interceptable categories, he will surely have a friend, a neighbor or someone in the house that falls among the categories for which it is possible to put the trojan in the phone, transforming it accordingly into a spy. So, if you want to prosecute someone, you have all the weapons: no one is free, no one can think of not seeing badly interpreted your words. Yesterday the case of that condemned man who has been in prison for twenty-one years because a sentence of his has been badly heard and, although there was no other element than an interception with an unfaithful transcription, this person has made twenty-one years in prison. What is the concern? Put an end to these phenomena? No: you worry about making other cases of this kind! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Iwobi]] This is really unacceptable, also because the magistrates who came to the hearing declared that they were not ready, there are judgments of the Supreme Court that say that you cannot go beyond certain limits and the Constitution should be enough, even without judgments of the Supreme Court. But you want to move on. Here there really is a problem of mindset and lightness. It is true that this point is not much talked about: it is mainly about the prescription, the last statement by Renzi, the out-of-wave by Rocco Casalino. These are the important issues. But the freedom of citizens is really important even if the newspapers don't make us headlines! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And today is what you decide and each of you assumes responsibility, which is not only the head of your party or your Parent, but each of you. And there is no chair in any state body that can repay the shame of having given in on the fundamental principles. There are precedents of this kind of sick mindset for which you want the state or tyrant to know everything. The Ear of Dionysius has been mentioned; Bentham had designed the Panopticon, the prison - note well: the prison - where you can see every moment of life and the day of the prisoner. So it occurred to me: are there protection for prisoners today, even those convicted of serious crimes? Well, I went to see the prison code (Articles 18 and 18 -ter): there are strict limitations to the violation of the privacy of prisoners, as it is right that it is, because the prisoner must also have the right to its confidentiality. We cannot go and see in his correspondence other than for certain reasons, which obviously go far beyond perhaps having made a photocopy in the office and having taken it home, as is proposed in this provision. There has been talk of a police state: here it is worse than the police state, it is worse than being in prison when you are free, because you are spied at all times, you are deprived of the guarantees that even prisoners have for the most serious crimes. So this is really a very important step. I am really addressing each of my colleagues in the majority: I am convinced that most of you do not want to do this. It is the violation of citizens' rights that will have devastating effects: there will be lives destroyed by elements that are spread abusively and badly interpreted, for the dissemination of data, images and sounds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, the timer doesn't work, but he's already out of time. MALAN (FIBP-UDC). I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting a great man, who said that those who give up a piece of freedom in exchange for the illusion of a little more security do not deserve - and will lose them - either freedom or security. That's what you're doing, but to the detriment of the Italians. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You can't do that. You don't have to do this. We will oppose it and vote against it! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u49	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an urgent and necessary measure is being put in place in this House today in order to cover the discrasies that could occur during criminal proceedings, following the full application of Legislative Decree No 216 of 2017, the so-called Orlando reform, which regulates the matter of interceptions of conversations or communications. The process of approval of this decree-law has undergone a rather troubled path, as is known to all, up to the subtle exploitations and disputes that had the culmination yesterday in the manifestation put in place by the League. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is truly a shameful thing that we want to strongly stigmatize, even on my part, that I am a mother, and I do not allow anyone to question the fact that the Movimento 5 Stars has at heart the defense of children and minors. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, the alleged amendment of the League is not correct from a technical point of view and is misleading from a systematic point of view. Pillon's amendment extends the possibility of intercepting by means of the use of the computer receiver also a crime that does not fall within the eligibility limits provided for by the code. In fact, the reference to the crime provided for in Article 600-c, that is, the possession of pornographic material, is incorrect because it would not fall within the limits of eligibility in order to be intercepted, as the edittale penalty currently provided is up to three years of imprisonment and, therefore, under threshold. We can then look at this from a technical point of view. However, it must be said that if the League really wanted to make possible the interception of this crime, it would have to be included in the special list of crimes under threshold provided for in Article 266, which regulates the limits of eligibility, and not in Article 267, which concerns, among others, the possibility of intercepting without first having the authorization decree by the gip. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, much more practical and systematic was the agenda presented by the majority, but made inadmissible by the Legist President Ostellari, who intended, on the one hand, to include, by way of derogation from the limits of punishment, the tightening of the penalty treatment for a series of serious social alarm crimes committed against minors and, on the other hand, to extend the possibility of using the emergency trojan in relation to obviously interceptable crimes. In this way a more reasoned, systematic and consistent operation could have been carried out with the procedural order. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Pillon's amendment reflects the behaviour of his party during the sitting: incorrect, disrespectful of the institutions and even wrong about the substance of the matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Returning to the problem of interceptions, we know that it is extremely sensitive because it places at the centre a number of important constitutional rights and interests of primary importance. We have the secrecy of investigations, the protection of privacy and the right to information, which must be settled and balanced. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure that the subjects of the criminal trial, including the defenders, are provided with every means of effective investigation into the commission of crimes and effective evidence; on the other hand, the protection of the needs of the investigations cannot go as far as the compression of certain inviolable rights such as those to defence and confidentiality and, on the other hand, it must remain strictly functional to them. Therefore, they are absurd and hallucinating of opposition interventions aimed solely at creating psychological terrorism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Neither the confidentiality of data nor the protection of the privacy of citizens is at stake here. In particular, with regard to this aspect, the measure aims to achieve a better organization of the discipline of the interceptions, slimming down the procedures of acquisition and storage of data also through computer ways that allow to improve the execution of the interception activities, including the custody and management of the intercepted and transcribed data and the effective protection of the defensive guarantees. This is done in full respect of the constitutional guarantees which have been repeatedly called into question in this House in the speeches made by my fellow Members. For these reasons, Article 1 of this measure provides for the extension of the entry into force, precisely in order to complete the complex organisational measures in place, including the preparation of electronic and digital equipment and to overcome any doubts as to applicability. With reference to the novelties brought by the discipline of interceptions, Article 2 of the decree-law intervenes on numerous norms of the code of criminal procedure, with the objective to improve the execution of the interception activities, including the custody and management of the intercepted and transcribed data, and the effective protection of the defensive guarantees. By examining the main interventions, the measure extends the prohibition of publication, even partial or summary, by means of the press or by other means of dissemination of acts covered by the secret or even only their content. With reference then to the execution of the interceptions, the formulation before the reform of 2017, with particular regard to the transmission of the minutes of the interceptions, the immediate communication to the defenders who have the power to examine the acts and listen to the recordings and the appropriate incidental procedure aimed at sorting and selection of the evidence material, is basically proposed. The main novelty of the decree-law concerns the abolition of the 2017 reform in the part in which it prohibits the judicial police from transcription, even summary, of the communications relevant for the purposes of the investigations, for the object, the subjects involved or the processing of personal and sensitive data, and it entrusts to the prosecutor the task of ordering the transcription of the aforementioned interceptions when it considers its relevance to the facts subject to trial. This is a significant change since it confers a position of responsibility on the investigating body, which is required to carry out an accurate assessment of the data collected for the purposes of their usability for probative purposes, both in the ongoing procedure and in the procedures different from that for which it is carried out and for which the decree of authorization for such telephone interceptions, conversations or communications has been issued. In fact, the prosecutor must ensure that the minutes do not contain any harmful expressions of the reputation of the persons or those concerning personal data defined sensitive by law, except that they are interceptions relevant for the purposes of the investigation. The importance of the procedure for approving the Decree-Law is mainly due to the hearing which has been carried out in the Commission, since the stakeholders directly concerned have been audited in the practical application of the measure. As has been pointed out by other parties, there was a unanimous opinion on the validity of the text, which was further improved by the Commission's amending work. So today we find ourselves having a text that manages to meet the requirements of guaranteeing the rights of all the parties involved, which has found a work of constant synthesis by the majority forces that have produced a text that today is the best possible to see the requests of the stakeholders protected. For these reasons, in view of the legislative action taken by the Government on the issues of justice and the various measures adopted, we can only reaffirm the full confidence of the Government and, therefore, a favorable vote by the Movimento 5 Stars on the measure in question. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u50	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u51	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 161 of 30 December 2019 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Calderoli, Segre, Testor, Sileri, Vattuone, Mangialavori, Mollame and Labate. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Lucidi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Lucidi. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - 11.41 a.m.). The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Pellanova, Biti, Bonifazi, Botto, Bressa, Paccarilla Campagna, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Cattaneo, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Ferrara, Lucari, Di Piazza, Donno, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fede, Fedeli, Fedeli, Fedeli, Di Marzio, Ferrara, Ferraria, Flori, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi There are no senators: Arrigoni Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barbaro, Battistoni, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Bongiorno, Bonino, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caliguri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Centin, Centinario, Cesaro, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis Faggi, Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fregolenti, Fusco Galliani, Galliani, Mangero Pantelli, Marinparri, Giammanco, Giro, Grassi Iannone, Iwobi La Pietra, La Russa, Lucidi, Lunese, Lunese, Malanesu Maan, Gallani, Mangerio, Mangerio, Garnero, Pantelli, Pantelli, Marinerio, Marinerio PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900, entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 161 of 30 December 2019 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 275 Senators voting 274 Majority 138 Favourites 156 Contrars 118]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]] All amendments relating to the text of Decree-Law No 161 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u52	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Principe Amedeo" of Gaeta in the province of Latina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u53	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 1149-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Saviane, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill intends to transfer to the available assets of the Municipality of Chioggia the area of the area called "Ex areas imbonite-Fascia lagoon underwater" to allow its subsequent alienation to private owners. As mentioned in the report, in the twenties of the last century, due to public hygiene requirements and the hydrological reorganization of the territory, it became necessary to build the wall of the bank of the Canal Lusenzo, in the Municipality of Chioggia, by the magistrate of the waters of Venice, with the agreement to receive, in exchange for the works carried out, the plot of land taken from the sea. The areas coming from the reclamation of the lagoon have entered to be part of the marine state property and, as such, have become inalienable, until 10 February 1965, with decree of the Minister for the Merchant Navy, in concert with the Minister for Finance, published in the Official Gazette n. 60 of 9 March 1965, have been transferred from the marine state property to the patrimony of the State, but have not returned to the property of the citizens possessors. Following the verifications carried out during the process of state federalism provided for by legislative decree no. 85 of 28 May 2010, the Venice State property agency, established the existence of constructions on areas owned by the State, forwarded to residents requests for payment for the use of the same. The Municipality of Chioggia, in a recent statement (of February 22, 2019), called for a regulatory solution to return to citizens the property in question. It is recalled that for a similar situation, again in the Municipality of Chioggia, for the areas defined ex Forte di Brondolo, has intervened article 5, paragraph 2-c, of decree-law 29 March 1995, n. 96, that arranges the application of the norm previewed from the law 5 February 1992, n. 177, that allows the transfer of the state property areas to the available patrimony of the Municipality and, subsequently, the alienation to the private owners of the same areas. In particular, Article 1 provides for the transfer to the available patrimony of the Municipality of Chioggia of the area of the area called "Ex zoni imbonite - Fascia lagoon submarina" and provides for the application for the area in question, already the subject of request for transfer by the Municipality of Chioggia, of the norms of the law 5 February 1992, n. 177 (except for Article 6), that allow the transfer of the state property areas to the available patrimony of the Municipality and subsequently allow the alienation to the private owners at the request of the latter. The article also states that the purchase of the areas undermines the state's claims for previous fees and, in general, for compensation required under any measure depending on the occupation of the areas. From the date of submission of the application of the private owners are also suspended the procedures of injunction or release of the areas, however motivated. Finally, the last paragraph of the same Article estimates the costs arising from the provision and carries the financial cover. In fact, the Commission noted the need, in view of the conclusion of the financial year 2019, to postpone the implementation of the obligations resulting from the implementation of the draft law to date from 2020 and to adapt the financial coverage clause accordingly, referring to the new three-year period 2020-2022. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u55	The government representative does not intend to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u58	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here is something that finally finds a happy solution. For many years Chioggia and above all its citizens waited to see it conclude positively, since it had origins even in the twenties of the last century, in the immediate post-war war of the First World War, when, as the rapporteur recalled, the magistrate of the waters of Venice proposed to the citizens to carry out at their own expense the reclamation and the construction of the embankment of the Canal Lusenzo, with the agreement to receive, in exchange for the works carried out, that plot of soil ambonito. Unfortunately, this passage has never been sanctioned over the years by any formal act (I would like to remind you that we are talking about 132 buildings and 200 families), despite the fact that on the areas were then built real estate, on which citizens have regularly paid taxes. The path to remedy this situation was born years ago and, fortunately, immediately, saw all the political forces unanimously deployed in favour of this measure, at all institutional levels, as happened recently in the other branch of Parliament, in the House of Deputies. It has seen all the political forces united, who still today, aware of the urgency of the matter and the need to define it once and for all, finally find themselves voting on the draft law under consideration. Chioggia is a city that has many strengths, but an economy that needs to be supported, supported and helped. With this measure we certainly give stability and future to the 200 families involved, on which the unknown of having to pay 150-200,000 euros charts weighed. We are proud, like Italy Viva-P.S.I. to be part of this team that after so many years, compact, finally solves the issue and gives some justice to the citizens of Chioggia. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u61	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that nothing is easier to say about a measure such as this, which is a response that must be united by political forces. It is one of those moments when, together, we must first apologize to those citizens who have been waiting for answers for so many decades and who will now finally be able to see their rights recognized and their fears calmed. Therefore, on behalf of the Group I voted in favour of a measure that finally transfers from the property to the Municipality of Chioggia the property of the property in question so that, then, they are alienated to the private individuals who hold them and guard them for a long time. Without further words, we support this measure, in line with the attitude we have also taken in the Commission, with a view to speeding up its examination process. However, we can only hope that such legislation can be extended to similar situations. I refer, as my colleagues in the House of Deputies have already done, to the many maritime pertinential areas that, often crumbling and abandoned, contribute to the degradation of the territory and represent a den of delinquency. Well, with this path of reliance on private individuals, these areas could find a new vitality. Starting from this specific measure that concerns the Italians of Chioggia, we hope we can open a reasoning for the whole country and for many other state property areas that could have a different use if there really were the political will. I do not think there is a need for so many other words to announce the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group on the measure under consideration, if I do not (I allow myself to use a few seconds of the time I have left, but not everything, so colleagues will be glad to see it now) to learn a lesson. Measures like this, in fact, should bring politics all and all parties that believe in this country (as Brothers of Italy believes us) to find more often moments of encounter on the most important realities and problematicities that grip our country (the talk of the economy and the tax), on which instead we are often wronged by party taken or on which statements are made only to define a party position different from the other. I believe that measures such as this can lead to a teaching which I, on behalf of my Group, would like to make my own, but which I hope can be done from now on by each of you, namely that on measures and rules that are really in the interest of the country there is that sharing that should unite us all for the good of our community. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u64	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this measure, which finally solves - hopefully definitively - a situation that has been dragging on for a very long time. Anyone in the Senate knows how long this has been going on. It is paradoxical, because a hundred years have passed since the Bonifiche were made and sold these land (as has happened also in other situations). The incredible thing is that now these citizens, who had been promised by the state to be able to become owners of the housing area, are also being persecuted by debitory records. I believe that the solution identified through the application of Article 5 of Decree-Law No 96 of 1995 (which has already been applied once), which transfers this heritage to the Municipality of Chioggia making it available in order to then do the operation, is absolutely a technical solution of common sense. Finally, let us give a definitive answer to those hundreds of families who have been suffering a real wrong for years. This shows that, when we work to meet the concrete needs of our citizens, we are also able to achieve unanimity. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u67	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is little to say about this measure if we do not vote on it very quickly. For some 90 years, families have been waiting for a solution to a problem that has been a bad example of bureaucracy guided by a principle of subjection and not citizenship of citizens, as unfortunately happens in some cases in our country. First of all, I should like to thank all the groups for their excellent cooperation on this measure. It is really rare to see this pierced, this common desire and - we have to say - also this speed. The first parliamentary act of this legislature relating to Canale Lusenzo (Chioggia) was a question that we presented, at my first signature, in November 2018. The government forces and - I must admit with great satisfaction - all the political forces of the Senate, even of opposition, have collaborated in a very effective way to finally find a solution. These are about two hundred families who were experiencing a dramatic situation in a city already fragile in many ways. We are in the presence of buildings and buildings regularly registered in the land register and in the general regulatory plan. We were and are in the presence of real estate on which the citizens had paid taxes and in many cases sold with regular notary act; buildings built with the permissions provided by the urban regulations of release of the areas, motivated in a strict manner. We were, therefore, faced with a paradoxical situation: the citizens had done perfectly what they had to do, the local administration had moved in fairness, in compliance with the legislation, and yet the solution could not be found. Well, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we find this solution definitively today and allow 200 families to radically overcome all the anxieties and difficulties they have been experiencing for decades. With this measure we undermine the state's claims for all previous fees and, in general, for the compensation required in any capacity depending on the occupation of the areas. The procedures for injunctions that were already in place, particularly for some families, are suspended, even for tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of euros and the release of the areas still motivated. This is an example of good policy. I have been able to meet many times these citizens of Chioggia and actions like these, actions of good activity, good politics and collaboration in finding solutions, are those that the country needs. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must demonstrate that, beyond political membership, there is a common feeling that for us it is the central action: to solve the problems of people and often the most difficult people, as in these cases. Today's victory is for everyone and for the whole of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u70	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would ask that the full text of my speech be deposited and that I confine myself to a few points, given that the historical and technical passages have already been mentioned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). I thank the President of the Senate and the Leaders for agreeing today to schedule the measure under consideration, but I believe that at this moment are mainly the many citizens (more than 200 families) living on the shore of Lusenzo in Chioggia to thank. Finally, they can put an end to an absurd story that dates back to the beginning of the last century. If we are now here to vote for the measure for those citizens of Chioggia, who will then provide with the last effort to bear the expenses for the transfer of property, it is due to a convergence of all the political forces, who have understood the gravity of the situation and the despair of those who, besides not being recognized the property, have been faced with accounting records of hundreds of thousands of euros. It is a demonstration of a good policy that, in a cross-cutting way, has been able to give answers to the citizens; those responses that unfortunately bad politics failed to give directly to those "volunteer" men who worked for Chioggia a hundred years ago. Too many people have left with the regret that they have not managed to leave their loved ones a house without constraints; too many hopes and too many dreams have been broken. Good politics today wins with this final vote that we hope will be unanimous, as happened last October 3rd in the Senate and February 4th in the Chamber of Deputies. I would point out that this is not a pardon, but a recognition of citizens' rights which has been awaited for a hundred years. Now you can't keep waiting any longer. A positive vote today is a good signal for those citizens who, moreover, were affected by the problem of high water last November and would be an adequate response to the undefended commitment of Don Pierangelo Laurenti, whom I would like to remind here, parish priest of the parish of San Martino on the shore of the Lusenzo channel, who has worked so hard to be of comfort to the citizens, particularly during the period when they were hit by the debitory records and who unfortunately left last February 10, before a definitive resolution of the problem. Now it's up to us. For the reasons set out, together with the Venetian senators Ferro, De Poli, Causin and Ghedini, I declare the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group to the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u73	Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the measure under consideration, we are going to finally heal a paradoxical situation created at the beginning of the twentieth century. The lagoon belt of Sottomarina, in the Municipality of Chioggia, was in an unsustainable sanitary situation for the resident population. Unfortunately both the Municipality of Chioggia and the magistrate to the waters lacked the economic resources to provide for the reclamation of the area. In order to resolve the serious situation, the State asked for the intervention of willing citizens, who offered to carry out the work in exchange for receiving a plot of land where to build their own home. These agreements between the parties are documented by minutes signed by the parties: the preliminary one, signed on July 1, 1923, between the Royal Corps of Civil Genius, the Special Office for Maritime Works of Venice and province, the executive company of the construction works of the bank wall Lusenzo, and the one of the delivery to the "buyers" of February 15, 1924. However, the areas coming from the imbonimento of the lagoon water mirror, pairs to square meters 8,911, have subsequently entered to become part of the marine state property and remained inalienable until 1965, when with a decree of the Minister for the Merchant Navy the areas in question have been transferred from the marine state property to the patrimony of the State. In fact, the delivery of the areas took place only in July 1975, without until now any formal act has ever been adopted to sanction the passage of ownership of the land. During the decades in those areas many properties have been built, regularly registered in the land register and in the general plan, on which taxes have been paid and, in some cases, even sold with notarial deeds properly burned. In 2010, legislative decree No. 85, concerning state federalism, entered into force and only then the Venice State property agency, becoming aware of the existence of real estate on areas owned by the State, forwarded to the residents the requests for payment for the use of the same, coming to ask up to 250,000 euros per family for the arrears. Many of the protagonists of the initial agreements with the State have died, leaving to children and heirs these uncomfortable inheritances, which are disrupting the serenity of about two hundred families of Sottomarina, who do not know just how to cope with the injunctions of payment of the Agency of the State, although, lately, in view of the problems emerged, it seems that the Agency has interrupted the proceedings. You understand that it is not a matter of abusive citizens, but of families who are "victims" unaware and who have inherited or purchased houses built on a state property area with the promise of future sale. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the face of this serious problem on 25 July 2019 the City Council of Chioggia also unanimously voted on an agenda that demonstrates the commitment of all political forces to try to resolve the issue. The agenda highlights the unsustainable nature of the situation, including the fact that the foreclosures of the current accounts of the citizens concerned have begun which prove unable to pay the exorbitant amounts requested by the Revenue Agency. Today's measure aims to remedy this unbearable situation in favour of the families of those citizens, so-called willing, fishermen and Ortolani, who at the beginning of the last century, subject to agreements made with the State, carried out embassy works that have become by default "maritime demand." This measure also intends to allow the transfer of the state property areas to the available assets of the Municipality of Chioggia in order to allow its subsequent alienation to the private owners. We thank the President of the 6th Finance Commission, Professor Bagnai, and all the Commissioners for speeding up the process of this measure and meeting the needs of all these families, allowing a prompt discussion of this bill which also provides for the suspension of the injunctive proceedings, even if initiated before the entry into force of this measure. I therefore announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u76	VANIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, today is an important day. It's not just a number: 20-02-2020. Today is a special day for the 200 families on the shore of Lusenzo who have been waiting for justice for more than 100 years. This bill finally resolves a Kafkiana story, which has tangled over the years, bringing to exasperation the residents of these houses. I do not go into the technical aspects already mentioned and described by my colleagues. I want to tell the story of people. Riva Lusenzo was a strip of land and mud, which was torn from the waters of the lagoon south of Venice thanks to the work of these people, who had accepted the invitation of the magistrate of the waters, which now no longer exists, and of the city authorities, between the end of the 1800s and the beginning of the 900s, to reclaim a bank of the canal where the mud mixed with brackish water. In return, the State allowed these people, these citizens, to build their homes: folk houses, built with simplicity and with so much effort by fishermen, artisans and Ortolani. The works to be carried out were a wall on the bank of the Lusenzo channel, a wall containing the waters, for which, at the time, neither the Municipality nor the magistrate could provide for the waters itself, as the funds were lacking. There was no money for the people. It was the State, therefore, that asked citizens to take charge of the intervention, to be carried out with extreme urgency. These works were necessary for the reclamation because they had to solve the very serious sanitary situation of the city, as that was one of the poorest and most popular areas. It was also stated that the areas would be transferred to the citizens themselves. Therefore, in absolute good faith, these families have built their homes on that land, which they themselves reclaimed, as evidenced by the aforementioned minutes signed between the parties: the preliminary agreement minutes of 1923 and the delivery report to the buyers of 1924. But the story, over the decades, gets complicated and the passage that, by formal act, had to resolve definitively the issue never arrived. The state, stepfather, had abandoned them. It is important to stress here that these citizens have never, I repeat, taken advantage of the housing situation. There are no abuses and no building speculations here. I would like to reiterate this strongly: there are neither abuses nor building speculations. There is only the right of these people to finally be recognized, after a hundred years, the legitimate property of their home. In December 2014, the State property agency sent families living on the shore of Lusenzo a request for payment, which, in some cases, exceeded 100,000 euros, for having used, it reads in the document, without title, an area that was, in fact, still owned by the State. About one year later, in 2015, the same stakeholders from the first communication received a second one, with which they were told to pay what was requested within and no later than thirty days, save the possibility of proceeding with the installment or judicial appeal. This bill therefore takes charge, after many years, to give a definitive solution for the houses of Lusenzo shore, transferring the area to the available assets of the Municipality of Chioggia for the subsequent transfer to the private residents. It is an act due to the people who, with great concern, are waiting for this definitive solution. It's not about numbers, it's about people. There is Mrs. Giuseppina, who has little time and wants to stay in her small house, in tranquility; there is Eros Tiozzo, desperate, who had been asked hundreds of thousands of euros of previous state property canons; there are Pierpaolo and his father, who were afraid of no longer having hope and there are, again, Mrs. Attilia and Simonetta, who among the 200 families have never stopped fighting. Today we are finally in the final act and I would therefore like to express my special thanks to all those who have worked to achieve this solution, to the colleagues of all the political forces of this legislature, but also to the previous one, who had accepted this important request of the 5 Star Movement, demonstrating in fact that good policy, if it wants, can always find the right solutions to the real problems of the citizens. Finally, let me say a special thank you to all my colleagues from Veneto and to Senator Bottici, who has worked so hard to help us. I therefore declare the vote in favour of all the Movimento 5 Stars on this measure. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u77	I put to the vote the bill, composed of only article 1. It's approved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u80	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a point about the vote on motion for a resolution No 2 (text2) which took place yesterday. As I have already indicated to the Offices, I took part in the vote, but the electronic system did not register my vote against, making me absent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u81	Senator Lanzi, thank you for the clarification, which will remain in the proceedings. After the famous responsible and irresponsible senators, we also have the invisible.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u84	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to ask whether it is possible to re-evaluate the reinstatement of the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u85	Senator Airola, it has already been decided in the last Conference of the Leaders that from the beginning of March will resume the speeches at the end of the session, with a self-quota on the numbers by the Groups. AIROLA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. I wasn't aware of the information. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.14 p.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u86	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy and the Minister for Public Administration will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Rauti has the right to explain the question 3-01405 on the launch of a new airship mission in the central Mediterranean, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u87	Mr President, Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 February the EU Foreign Ministers reached a political agreement to launch a new aircraft mission in the Mediterranean with the aim of implementing the UN arms embargo in Libya. The new operation will replace the current Sophia mission, under Italian leadership, launched in 2015. It is a new operation that will employ planes, satellites, drones and ships operating in a stretch of sea to the east than the one affected by Sophia and, therefore, not all the Libyan coast, as it was previously. In view of the Minister's enthusiasm and statements regarding this agreement, however, there are problems and uncertainties regarding the operation and effectiveness of the entire operation, as well as its rules of engagement. As Commissioner Borrell also confirmed, concerns about the potential attraction effects of migratory flows (the so-called pull factor) are legitimate - and we make them our own. It has been decided that, if migratory flows increase, the marine assets will be withdrawn where the pull factor has manifested itself. Therefore, the obligation by sea law to help migrants remains, but in the absence of an agreement - the question is: what happened to the mirabolous agreements of Malta in September 2019? - between European countries on where to land migrants, the 27 have agreed that, if the flows increase, the naval patrol will be suspended. Minister, what criteria and parameters will be used to measure the risk of pull factor? What is the threshold that defines a migratory wave? We fear that precisely this decision can encourage traffickers of human beings and migrants to increase the flow in order to force ships to stop, thus making even the main purpose of the mission fail. In addition, the Sophia mission had an Italian guide and Italy could claim the leadership of the new one. Who, on the other hand, will be responsible for the mission desired by the Franco-German axis? We have changed our mind and we want to understand why Sophia wanted to be enlarged and, instead, it was decided for a new mission, although the military leaders have always said that it was better to fortify Sophia than to start a new one. If you can deploy the ships to implement the arms embargo, which already exists but is ineffective, then it means that the ships can also be deployed to activate the naval blockade that Brothers of Italy has always invoked to prevent the boats of death from leaving and to block the hullers and the trafficking of human beings. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u88	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u89	Mr President, Senators and Senators, in the last Foreign Affairs Council (CAE) of the European Union, all States unanimously agreed that Sophia could not meet the needs of a mission which at this time must stop the entry of arms into Libya. To stop further potential departures of migrants or the proliferation of terrorism in Libya, we must arrive at a ceasefire; to arrive at a ceasefire, we must stop the entry of weapons by air, sea and land into Libya; to do this we have created a new mission with an exclusive mandate that has the task of blocking the entry of weapons with aerial and naval surveillance even at land borders if the Libyan parties agree. Moreover, with this mission we obviously continue to form the Libyan Coast Guard - also this has been decided unanimously - to manage the routes of migrants. Finally, we pursue in a secondary way what were the objectives of contrasting the so-called hullists. What have we agreed on Monday in the Foreign Affairs Council? The points are simple, public and I would also like to leave them to the Presidency. We agree to launch a new operation in the Mediterranean; the Sophia operation will be closed. We agree that this operation will have as its objective the implementation of the arms embargo. The operation will include seven satellite and maritime aircraft. The area of operations will be defined in line with the agreed mandate. We agree that it will maintain other secondary tasks, including the fight against organised crime responsible for migration as well as the training of the Navy and the Libyan Coast Guard. We note concerns about the potential impact on migratory flows and indicate that this aspect will be monitored carefully and the operation commander will report regularly. On this basis, in case of observation of pull factor on the migration, the naval structures will be withdrawn from the area concerned. All the criteria you have legitimately requested, Senator, will be discussed in the next few days in the Political and Security Committee (Cops) and in the Permanent Representatives Committee (Coreper), in order to identify all the rules of engagement of this mission at technical level. Then the goal is that, on 23 March, the next EWC can finally decide on the mission. Of course we will point out that the headquarters, specifically, and also the command are in Italy and it is not a coincidence - I believe - that however the preliminary phase was entrusted to the same personnel who managed the operation Sophia. The technical investigation phase that we will have to decide in the next few days is followed by Sophia's former command. This is very important because it means that we continue to recognize the importance of Italy in leading such missions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u90	Senator Rauti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u91	Minister, we wanted to be reassured, but now - I am sorry to say - we are concerned. Maybe after March, the painting will be happier. We are concerned about defence and national security. We are concerned about the lack of answers, because it's all a "we'll see and we'll point out. We are concerned about the lack of response on the naval blockade to the maritime ban that you yourself called for before the Berlin Conference. We are concerned about the lack of response, knowing very well that the weapons come from the ground, and instead of this, which is only a naval and aerial mission, you say "if the Libyan parties will agree," so if they agree. And still the greatest concern arises from the fact that moving ships on the one hand means, or at least could mean, the reduction of attention on the South side, which also means reducing the ability to monitor, to make intelligence, and on the traffic not only of weapons, but also of human beings who, by the way, you tell us to become a secondary task; this is definitely worrying. This means to lower overall the guard in contrast to the activity of the traffickers, with the effect, in reference to the pull factor, that we will have an uncontrolled increase of the migratory flows. And, above all, we have not specified where the migrants collected in the sea will go: will they go to the flag countries - as you have declared in an interview - or will there be rotation of the ports? This means that there is no agreement at European level and that the migration policy and the rotation of ports, which you had given in some way to conquer, have failed. In conclusion, we hope to make a mistake, because national interest for us patriots is always a priority. To date, however, we fear that there will be no Italian guide, who will lose the Italian leader of the mission, who will be much more useful to France than to Italy; you understand what I mean. We hope to make a mistake because what we see as unprotected and unrepresented is precisely the national interest. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u92	Senator Petrocelli has the right to explain the question 3-01403 on the policies of the Government for the stabilisation of Libya and the dialogue with Iran, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u93	Minister, the Italian Government and you in particular have been carrying out intense diplomatic activities in recent weeks, as witnessed by the participation in the 56th edition of the Conference on Security in Munich and the Berlin Conference and by the work of the International follow-up committee on Libya. During the 56th edition of the Munich Conference, he met his counterpart, Iranian minister Zarif. At this moment, we are particularly concerned about the situation of latent conflict in Libya, which, despite a formally established truce, actually continues with continuous clashes, some of which also very heavy on the territory. Also the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for Libya, Stephanie Williams, acknowledged that the truce is hung from a thread and the arms embargo is a joke. We are all convinced that Italy has long been among the countries most actively engaged in the search for a solution to the Libyan question, which must be political, as well as being the one most directly exposed to the destabilising effects of this crisis, which has been going on for more than a decade, in terms of both terrorist threat and energy security and migratory pressure. There is now an involvement of all Libyan actors in what has been called the Berlin process, with a strong initiative by the European Union precisely on an Italian basis, and in this process important results have already been achieved, such as the launch of a new mission to monitor the arms embargo. In the light of all this, I would ask you to tell us what the specific interests and objectives of the Government and its Dicastery would be, in particular, both after your recent mission to Libya, and after your participation in the Munich Conference and the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council, both in relation to issues relating to the stabilisation of Libya and - not irrelevantly - in the dialogue with Iran.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u94	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u95	Senator Petrocelli, I start from the words of the quotation linked to the truce and the embargo: it is clear and clear that the truce is weak; we continue to define it as such because the parties, despite continuing to put in place violations, in any case do not advance from their positions; it is clear, however, that our goal is to achieve a true and lasting ceasefire. However, if weapons continue to enter Libya, doing so is very complicated, because excalation continues and the two sides continue to feel stronger and stronger. For this reason, the only path is diplomatic, which clearly does not have the times of war, and there is a need for a diplomatic action determined to gather around a table all the actors of this one we call proxy war - because not a civil war it is, but there are interferences from all over the world - and to make them agree that we must block the entry of weapons and stop supplying weapons and soldiers to both sides. This diplomatic action is at the Berlin Conference today: the first follow-up committee was held in Munich on Saturday; last week I went back to Libya from Haftar and al-Sarraj and both of them were reminded of the importance of the work being done on the 5+5 Committee, in which the military parties are discussing it. However, I have found a willingness to discuss it and now, with respect to the latest attacks in the port of Tripoli, the work of the military committee has been suspended, but we are working to get it back on track. It is clear that the European mission, whose objective is to respect the arms embargo, is essential in order to block its entry. It is obvious, then, that it is no longer the previous mission, but it seems to me that the same parts that today say that it is a pity that the Sophia mission ended before they said that it was not used to block weapons. Sophia's mandate - in my opinion - failed to meet the need to enforce the embargo, while the current mission has at its core respect for the embargo. Moreover, the rules of engagement that concern also the eventual rescues at sea - that however it is difficult that there will be, because the ships are located on the east side of the Libyan coast - will be discussed in the next days in the Cops and Coreper. I shall end with Iran. To Minister Zarif I have reiterated three things: to continue in the process of non-proliferation of nuclear power; to avoid provocations that can cause escalation; Italy wants to continue working with Iran in areas such as cultural diplomacy, with paths of collaboration in the field of culture and our history, to keep Iran engaged and to foster a dialogue between the parties of this escalation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u96	Senator Petrocelli has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u97	Minister, I am extremely pleased with your reply, in which I note, above all, the firm intention of you and our Government to maintain diplomatic action at the heart of Italian and European Union foreign policy, at a time when the so-called power policy is overwhelmingly returning to the international stage, as Mr Josep Borrell himself said. I fully agree with you when you say that it is easier to follow the policy of power than that of diplomatic action, which is much slower and requires more energy, but we must not be distracted on this path. With regard to the possibilities of maintaining a firm and constructive dialogue with Iran, I believe that, above all, the first point you mentioned, namely to convince the Iranian Government not to give up on the path of non-proliferation of nuclear power, is the main instrument. I would simply like to point out that the Iranian people have long been waiting for concrete signals from the European Union and - in my opinion - Italy can be the leader in sending those signals and we can do so very quickly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u98	Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-01408 on the inconsistencies in payments of support measures for livestock farms in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u99	Mr President, the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP) 2014-2020 introduced a system of direct payments which, from 1 January 2015, replaced the single payment scheme (SRP). The new system has provided for a package approach, with the articulation of seven aid components, of which three must be provided by the Member State, while the remaining four are optional. Among the optional ones, coupled support, as referred to in Article 52 of Regulation (EU) No 1307 of 2013 covers specific agricultural production sectors and is intended to support their activity, being granted only to those sectors or regions of a Member State where certain types of agriculture or certain agricultural sectors of particular importance for economic, social or environmental reasons are in difficulty. In Italy, with particular reference to the bovine sector, it was decided to grant coupled support (in the form of an annual payment per eligible hectare or per eligible animal head) for beef milk production, for suckler cows and for slaughter. To this end, farms shall also submit a request through the agricultural assistance centres (CAAs) and always within the single demand. For the payment of the coupled payment, the Agena (or the regional paying agency) takes into account the real livestock stock with reference to the year (from 1 January to 31 December) for which the farmer has submitted an application and checks, through the national database (BDN), the actual registration and handling of the animals. It should also be considered that in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano a provincial database (VET) is in use, which helps to establish, in turn, the national database, within which, at the time of the birth of each new head, the marker provides to insert the relevant data. Due to the late insertion by the marker or due to communication problems between the two databases, it has occurred that, in the control by the paying agency for the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, in many cases there have been discrepancies between the number of heads declared and that correctly established, with percentages that, in some cases, exceed 50% of the total. As part of the technical calculation document for the verification of the conditions for the eligibility of animals for zootechnical support as referred to in Article 52 of the Regulation, in summing up the European provisions and findings, the Commission services found that there were significant delays in updating the database, and reiterated that they undermined the reliability of cross-checks carried out in the database, they concluded that sanctions should be applied even if the farmer had communicated in time, as he was the last person responsible for the notification of movements. Not only have the applications submitted been partially withdrawn, but a penalty of one and a half times the difference found, as laid down in Article 31 of the Regulation, has also been applied, i.e. amounts which for small holdings amount to around a few hundred euros and which will not have to be paid, but will be recovered directly by way of compensation for future payments within the next three years. In conclusion, it is therefore asked to know whether the Minister is aware of the situation which is hitting high-mountain farms hard, but in no way responsible for the errors detected, and whether he does not intend to intervene in order to verify the real responsibilities of those involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u100	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the coupled component of the zootechnical premiums referred to in Article 32 of Regulation No 1307 of 2013 was regulated by the Ministerial Decree of 8 November 2014, adopted in agreement with the State-Regions Conference. Article 19 of that decree provides that zootechnical aid shall be granted to animals complying with the identification and registration requirements laid down in Community regulations. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is aware of the situation described by the interrogators, which led, inter alia, to a proposal for financial correction by the European Commission due to delays in the registration of animals in the national database. In this respect, it should be noted that such compliance, i.e. the registration of animals in the national database, pursuant to Article 7 of Community Regulation No 1760 of 2000, is the sole responsibility of the holder of the animals, who must provide them either directly or through the agents of the same delegate. The anomalies referred to by the interrogators are therefore due to late or missing registrations by the beneficiaries of Community aid granted through the Common Agricultural Policy. However, I am aware of the difficulties encountered by farmers in the areas concerned, which are also characterised by objective structural difficulties and physical disadvantages, where the permanence of extensive animal husbandry still represents an added value for the territory, the environment and the community. To this end, I have made provision for ministerial offices and Agea to examine the issue in greater depth, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, which has responsibility for the management of the national database and to study appropriate forms of support for the livestock sector, in order to avoid any anomaly or delay and not to cause further damage to producers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u102	I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u103	I thank the Minister for his reply. I understand that the question is a very specific issue. However, we wanted to highlight this issue, which creates a number of difficulties for mountain farming. I also thank you for the initiative you have taken, hoping, in the interests of mountain farming, that will lead to a result.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u104	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Sports Science High School (Gymnasium Patavinum Sport) in Padua, who are attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u105	Senator Magorno has the right to explain the question 3-01407 on the initiatives to protect Italian agri-food products from US duties, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u106	I would like to thank Minister Bellanova for the valuable work he has done in recent months in favour of the agri-food sector and for his commitment to the development of Made in Italy. In recent months, American trade policy has been directed towards protectionist guidelines, in particular due to the World Trade Organisation's authorisation to impose customs duties on products from the European Union. This authorisation was granted as a result of the dispute over the public aid granted to Airbus for the development and launch of certain models. The US was thus allowed to impose duties for a total amount of $7.5 billion. The extension of the new customs tariffs originally should have affected, among others, a wide range of Italian agri-food products (wine, oil, pasta), for a total value of about 3 billion euros. Despite this dramatic picture, the list of new duties, recently published by the US Department of Foreign Trade, no longer covers the above categories of goods. The exclusion of Italian agri-food products is an important victory that the whole country will recognize not only to the government and to the foreign secretary Scalfarotto, but also and especially to you, Minister. The meeting between you and the US Secretary for Agriculture was crucial in this respect, which took place on 30 January. Following this meeting, in fact, the review of the list of goods affected by the duties resulted in the exclusion of Italian food and wine products. Italy, as a result, has not suffered the effects of that unjust sanction. However, despite these important successes, much still needs to be done to protect the Italian agri-food sector and the export of food and wine products to the United States. In particular, sanctions remain on some products symbol of Made in Italy (cheeses, crustaceans, molluscs, salami, citrus fruits, liqueurs), ahead of the Airbus case, for a value of about half a billion euros of exports, according to Coldiretti. Moreover, the recent decision is not immutable: the revision of the list is valid for one hundred and eighty days. This means that within six months, the U.S. Government could envisage a new extension of tariffs. At the same time, the risks arising from the spread of Italian soiling cannot be underestimated. With this term it is customary to indicate that phenomenon of imitation counterfeiting that affects abroad the Italian products of the agro-food sector, even if protected by geographical indications, such as the so-called PDO and PGI products. According to the data estimated by Assocamerestero, in 2017 the value of Italian soiling, combined with that of its counterfeiting, would have been attested to approximately 100 billion euros at global level, with a growth rate of 70 percent compared to the previous ten years and equal to the triple turnover of Italian exports in the food sector, that in 2017 had been attested to 32,1 billion euros, of which 23 in the United States. The framework outlined calls for a thorough reflection on the protection of businesses and workers in the agri-food sector. The need to protect Italian brands both from tariff taxes and from phenomena such as counterfeiting is crucial to support Italian exports and the quality of its products marketed abroad. We therefore ask you what action you intend to take to deal with this issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u107	Mr President, as you know, on 9 October last, the Office for Trade of the United States of America published the official measure on the imposition of duties on the countries of the European Union in the Airbus case, which includes several goods and provides for a clear differentiation according to the countries of origin by setting additional duties of 25% on certain agri-food products. The Italian products most affected by American counter-measures are cheeses, liqueurs and processed pork meat. In order to avoid further damage and penalties to the Italian economy, I have personally committed myself by starting an intense activity at all levels also during visits and institutional contacts, working closely with the trade associations and the main consortia, as well as with importers, distributors and pressure groups in the United States. Specifically, on 27 and 30 January, during my meetings with the US Secretary for Agriculture, I highlighted with particular determination the importance of the entire Italian agri-food sector and its many excellences. The work carried out has produced important results, given that, in the note published on 15 February 2020 by the U.S. Trade Office on the revision of the list of products subject to duties, no further Italian product has been affected. My commitment remains firm and that of the Government in the vigilance and in the contrast to every possible form of counterfeiting of Made in Italy at the international level, in order to avoid that the criticalities deriving from the duties can make the consumers converge towards the food products falsely evocative of the Italian excellences. The Government will continue its diplomatic action to find a solution for the products included in the first list. The measures to be taken at Community level to strengthen initiatives to promote the excellence of Italian and European agri-food sectors also contribute to this objective. In this regard I have asked the European Commissioner for Trade Phil Hogan to assist the action put in place by our country in order to resolve the existing problems, avoiding further damage to Italian agriculture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Grimani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u108	Mr. Minister, we are fully satisfied with the answer. We are happy that its offices have worked in the right direction to reduce the damage that new duties would have caused to the Italian economy and that they are still at work to cope as soon as possible with the negative effects that Italian soiling has created and still creates for agri-food companies. In this regard, important efforts have been made by the Government in the last budget law, allocating more funds to promote Made in Italy and encouraging strategic promotion campaigns for those agri-food products subject to tariff increases and to counter the phenomenon of Italian sounding as a whole. We also remain confident that further measures will be taken during 2020 and new instruments to protect the sector will be implemented. As Gruppo Italia Viva we will continue to work consistently to bring concrete support to operators in the sector. Only in this way will agro-food exports finally be valued as one of the indispensable Italian assets, capable not only of contributing decisively to the growth of the country's gross domestic product, but also of spreading the excellence of products and the culture of well-being typical of our country throughout the world. We also believe that these positive results have been achieved thanks to the capacity of relationship that the Minister has shown in relations with the Secretary for Agriculture of the United States and above all through the promotion of system action, which means capacity and authority in Europe and constant supervision of the European tables. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u109	Senator Nugnes has the right to explain Question 3-01393 on the precautionary principle and the imposition of duties in agri-food trade with the United States for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u110	Minister, we are all concerned about the issue of US duties on food and not only that, but never would we want this to be an ut des to give in to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). We know that the US Secretary for Agriculture, before coming to Rome on 29 January, met the international press in Brussels and the European Commissioners for Agriculture and Rural Development, for Health and Consumer Policy and for Trade, in order to force the Commission on this very Treaty. Washington considers that the current approach in Europe is not acceptable, considering that the precautionary principle must be abandoned in order to be based on sound science. Of course, this would put health, the environment and also the excellence of our products at serious risk. In the USA, new products and substances are placed on the market on the basis of assessments made by companies, while public agency controls only take place as a result of appeals and subsequent complaints from citizens. In Europe, however, the precautionary principle is adopted precisely in order to prevent the burden of proof from falling on citizens to tragedy that has already occurred. This has enabled pesticides, genetically modified organisms and foods treated with hazardous substances to be kept out of the European market. The US Government calls on Europe to make heavy concessions: a weakening of health and phytosanitary rules and maximum permitted limits for pesticide residues and other chemicals in food and a change in European legislation on genetically modified organisms. In this regard, the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which obliges the products of these new techniques to comply with the current rules on genetically modified organisms, has also been made. What the United States requires is an unheard of and unacceptable force. The European Parliament itself has denied the European Commission the mandate to negotiate trade in agricultural products. The Trump Administration has pulled out of the Paris Climate Agreement and this is an extremely serious fact in contrast to the Assisi Manifesto and the green new deal, to which we have made a commitment. He therefore asked whether the Minister felt that he had to reject the new TTIP, safeguarding the precautionary principle, health, the environment and the quality of Made in Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u111	Mr President, it is with firm and continuous attention that I follow the events of the duties that, as you know, require a careful assessment of the criticalities that could affect the products representative of Italian agri-food excellence in the world. To this end, on 27 and 30 January 2020, I had two profitable meetings with my American counterpart Sonny Perdue. These meetings produced very positive results, given that in the note published on 15 February 2020 by the Office for Trade of the United States of America (USTR), concerning the revision of the list of products subject to duties, no further Italian product was affected. We have therefore avoided the risk that the review by the Office for Trade of the United States of America could extend to other important sectors of our export to the American market, as initially feared following the list published at the start of the revision phase. The comparison between the customs codes reported by that Office in the two lists of October 2019 and February 2020 shows no changes with regard to the list of Italian products on which a duty was then imposed to the extent of 25%. The new list provides for an increase in duty from 10% to 15% on components manufactured by France, Germany, Spain and Great Britain for the production and assembly of aircraft of the Airbus consortium, starting next March 18. The subject of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty (TTIP), which, as we know, involves international relations between the European Union and the United States, has not been discussed - and could not be, kindly, a senator. In any case, it will be the Government's constant commitment to monitoring developments in the matter in order to safeguard the precautionary principle, a principle of which I am firmly convinced. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Nugnes has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u112	Minister, thank you, for us this is an extremely important fact on which we cannot give in, first of all - as we said - to health and the environment but also to the quality of Made in Italy, because we cannot sell out our products, which are the result of European strategies of great attention. On this I would like to remind you, all of you and myself, that there are 150 civil society organisations in Europe and the United States, that they are calling for an end to the TTIP negotiations and that there will be yet another No-TTIP event in Rome tomorrow at Friday for the future. There will also be garrisons in Pisa and Paris. On this wave, I ask the Minister, for his part, to consider whether this Treaty should come to an end. [[Applause from Senators De Falco and De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u113	Senator Centinario has the power to explain the question 3-01395 on initiatives to counter the negative impacts on the agro-food sector of the new US duties, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u114	Mr President, Minister, the United States has not introduced new duties to the detriment of the Italian agri-food industry. However, in the list published on the US Treasury website there are about 93 Italian products that have been affected by the first wave of duties in force since 18 October, which mainly affected the dairy sector. The latter accounts for about 14% of the food sold in the United States. Second the analyses carried out by the Bank of Italy, the only duties already in force today result in a total damage to our country of about 400 million euros. Only Parmesan cheese costs today on American shelves about $45 per kilo. In view, the potential loss of position on the American market is therefore estimated at around 10-15 percent. Italy is an important analogue country for the United States. A drastic fall in exports would have serious repercussions on the American economy itself, with negative consequences for trade, catering and tourism. The American importers themselves have supported several petitions against the imposition of new duties on wine and olive oil. In addition to American duties, for our country, the pitfalls linked to the adoption of unfair practices through the now consolidated use of promotional sales by large retailers, which reduces the compensation for the producer by about 30%. Let us also remember that, in addition to US duties, China and Taiwan are currently blocking food products, caused by the inability of this Government to manage relations with countries on the occasion of the cutting of direct flights with the East. Do not warn China that you were about to implement the blockade and treat Taiwan as a Chinese province, without knowing that it is an autonomous state, demonstrates superficiality and incompetence, which will pay dearly our made in Italy. The measures taken by the current Government, including the latest budget law, have proved ineffective in protecting national productions affected by US duties. We had proposed aid of EUR 100 million; you have granted EUR 10 million. So let me turn to the questions. What initiatives does the Minister intend to take to encourage, in the appropriate fora, the resumption of negotiations between the European Union and the United States in order to implement every possible initiative aimed at avoiding the negative impacts for the Italian agri-food industry, preventing the risk of the products symbol of Made in Italy? What steps does the Minister intend to take to implement the procedures, in agreement with the European institutions, of economic compensation that are necessary to re-integrate the losses suffered in the Italian agro-food sector and to transpose Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices, in order to restore fairer contractual conditions along the food distribution chain? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u115	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of our agri-food products is a priority that the Government is pursuing very carefully. I think it is now well known to everyone that, after the intense negotiations in recent months, held in close liaison with the trade associations, the main consortia, importers and distributors in the United States, we have avoided the risk that our excellence would suffer irreparable damage. The Italian agri-food industry, in fact, does not appear on the list of the recently published Office for Commerce of the United States of America of products subject to duties. It is, therefore, a great success, also the result of my meetings with the American Agriculture Secretary of 27 and 30 January, during which I highlighted the importance of the Italian agri-food sector and its excellences and the risk that the imposition of duties would deprive American consumers of Mediterranean diet products, which are considered an excellence worldwide. After this first milestone, the Government is continuing its diplomatic efforts to find a solution also for products already included in the first list. Protecting the Italian agri-food sector also means ensuring legality and fairness on the markets. Marketing food clearly under average production costs, as you well know, Senator Centinario, is forbidden. This phenomenon generates a imbalance in the supply chain relationships, which is mainly due to the lack of income of primary farms and the possible exploitation of agricultural workers. In order to address this problem, the Council of Ministers, at its meeting on 27 January, finally approved the draft law of a European delegation containing the delegation to the Government for the transposition of the European Directive 2019/633 against unfair commercial practices in business relations in the food chain. This is a great step forward, decisive for the application in Italy of this directive, which aims to balance the relationship of strength in the commercial transactions between suppliers and chains of the large distribution in the sign of fairness and transparency, prohibiting behaviours no longer acceptable, such as delayed payments, unilateral changes of contracts or the obligation to pay for goods lost after delivery, all existing practices for a long time and that will finally be questioned with the approval of the bill that I have recalled before. I am sure, Senator Centinario, that you too will not fail in your contribution to the approval of the provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u117	Senator Centinario has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u118	No, Minister, we will not miss our contribution because, together with the MEP De Castro, I myself, when he was Minister, has taken on the whole issue of unfair practices. Teamwork: the Italian Ministries, the Commission of the European Union, the European Parliament and trade associations. This is how everyone defined the success of Made in Italy agri-food, which yesterday managed not to collect the new duties from the United States, after those imposed last October on cheeses, cold cuts and liqueurs. Yet, all this teamwork would not have gone on the net if there had been no American importers and distributors who were worried that their business would sink. The US representative association of importers supported a series of petitions addressed to the US Government against the imposition of new duties. The American consumers' voice was also added to the calls made by the trade associations: On the website of USTR, the Office of the US Trade Representative, 24,000 signatures have arrived. It does not seem to me that it is thanks to Italy or the Italian Minister of Agricultural Policy that no new duties have been introduced; I think that there has been a lobbying operation by importers of the United States and not Gian Marco Centinario, but Il Sole 24 Ore (Il Sole 24 Ore) says so. As a result, we do not take any credit that we do not have at the time when it is others that protect our agri-food. So, Minister, I would kindly ask you to remove 25% duties on cheeses, cold cuts and more, which are still in force and which are making our companies lose their income. I would also ask you, among other things, to agree with Senator Vallardi, President of the Senate's Agriculture Commission, on his hearing in the Commission, since the last time we saw her in the Agriculture Commission was on 9 October, when she presented her Dicastery's policy lines, and she still has to answer all the questions that senators and Members asked her on that occasion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u119	Senator Battistoni has the right to explain the question 3-01404 on measures to limit the damage caused to agriculture by wildlife, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u120	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, among the images that we are unfortunately forced to see about the various disasters that occur in our agriculture, one of the strongest is the one concerning the damage caused by wildlife. According to studies by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) and the various trade associations, the number of wild boars in particular has doubled over the last ten years. This has caused great damage, beyond the fact that the depopulation of many agricultural areas has resulted in their proliferation and all this to the grave detriment of our farmers. Unfortunately, this issue has become a national emergency, denounced on several occasions both by us, as the Forza Italia Group, and by other colleagues. The trade associations have made it one of their battle horses. Last but not least, there was a great demonstration in front of Montecitorio a few months ago where, from the various parts of Italy, the damage that comes from the proliferation of these animals was made known. We know that regional funds to compensate for the damage are never enough, so it is always our farmers who lose out. Let us therefore come to the questions on this subject. I would like to know what measures the Ministry intends to take to resolve this long-standing problem; if it does not consider it appropriate to take measures for the numerical containment of these animal species and especially if it does not consider it appropriate to set up a national fund to assist regional funds which, unfortunately, are insufficient to cope with this disaster. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u121	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u122	Mr President, this issue has long been the subject of the attention of the Government and my Ministry with the aim of preparing a package of measures aimed at strengthening the instruments to combat the increase in the populations of wild egg products, which must now be put into practice through an amendment to Law 157 of 1992. In this direction, in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, a working group was set up which presented a final report currently to the attention of the relevant ministries. The proposal provides, inter alia, for the amendment of Law No 157 of 1992 in order to allow the hunting of wild birds even outside the periods laid down in Article 18 of the aforementioned Law. In addition, in order to better protect biodiversity and intervene in a more incisive way for the numerical control of fauna species that also cause damage to human activities, the proposal also allows other specialized figures to the numerical control activities of the fauna species, through coadjutors formed with specific interventions and courses validated by ISPRA. As regards the problem of compensation for damage to the agricultural sector, I should like to inform the honourable Member that we have notified the European Commission of a draft interministerial decree governing the arrangements for granting aid for preventive measures and compensation for damage caused by wildlife to agricultural production. By decision of the European Commission of 21 November 2019, the aid scheme was approved and, on today's date, the favourable opinion of the State-Regions Conference is being issued. Finally, I would like to point out that the possible possibility of identifying a national fund to assist regional funds to deal with wildlife damage will be evaluated, also taking into account the different priorities for action and its compatibility with public finance requirements. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Battistoni to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u123	Minister, I have to say that I am partially satisfied with the answers you have given, especially with regard to the part that concerns prevention. As you well know, what is most important to our farmers is to bring home the harvest rather than receive incentives, which then never correspond to the real amount of the damage. I therefore hope that we can continue along this path. I also appreciate with satisfaction that at Ministeri level - specifically with the Ministry of the Environment - we have managed to make a team, which unfortunately we have not managed to do with the Agriculture and Environment Commissions to try to carry out a measure together. In fact, beyond the environmental issue, the problem affects farmers precisely because of the damage caused, significantly affecting their budget. We therefore hope to be able to find a collaboration also at the level of Commissions and however we will remain in contact to carry out also the initiatives that you have illustrated us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u124	Senator D'Alfonso has the right to explain the question 3-01406 on the development of public administration in terms of technology and human capital, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u125	Mr President, Minister in Italy, people, businesses and territories need the cooperation of the public administration to carry out their life projects. Even in Rome we also have one more aesthetic factor: there is a route in the toponymy of Rome that is called "Via dell'impresa" and is located between Palazzo Chigi and Montecitorio, as if to say that these "bastions" - one the place of legislative production and the other of administrative coordination - are fundamental to make sure that there is a life for the enterprise. The spirit of the original dedicates to this important function, which has meant that the enterprise could have a way and can therefore be born, was born with this ideality. We know that in Italy there are 3,600,000 employees and something like 10,000 subjects of public administration (Legislative Decree No. 29 of 1993, Article 1, with the precision of Sabino Cassese, tells us how the subjects of public administration are counted). We are with 100 billion euros in the belly of the different subjects of the public administration that can become interventions of improvement of the territory, of facilitation of the life of the enterprises and the families. However, there is a problem: the slowness with which the proceedings make to verify the events and determine in fact what then improves the lives of businesses, people and even families. It is necessary then to reconceive the administrative procedure; to ensure that the sole head of the procedure (RUP) has defined nodes and guaranteed times; to have a suitable contractualization with respect to its responsibilities, a dedicated training and a functional technology. We need to cope with the training emergency. In order to make this happen, we must also note that we are at a stage in which standardisation is ahead of employees' knowledge and also technology. This cannot be left to chance. Let us make sure that a great plan is created for updating and reforming so that we can even talk about a season in which the immediacy of the public decision arrives. I think that the Department of your Ministry should be called not only of the public function, but of the public decision for development. With these premises I ask you: how are you preparing to ensure that the officials of the Italian public administration are up to the challenge and to make sure that growth really concerns us? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u126	The Minister for Public Administration, Mr Dadone, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u127	Mr President, simplification, as Senator d'Alfonso well knows, is an indispensable flywheel for the country's growth. I seriously believe that the achievement of any plan has been put at risk since the completion of administrative procedures which are not certain and that a great deal of teamwork by all the Ministers, under the leadership of the President-in-Office, is indispensable in order to ensure rapid completion of administrative procedures. Redefinition of the procedures, which are still based on a traditional paper and analogue model, is essential. It is necessary to be able to simplify these procedures and transform them on the digital front in order to be able to reduce the times and make public administration up to date with the real needs of the country, businesses and citizens. On the simplification front I wanted to open my mandate with the launch of a consultation on the platform of the Department of the Civil Service to ask citizens what were the first demands on simplification and what were their experiences in terms of bureaucracy issues. The answers were many. I will also take another step to raise awareness among public administrations of the bad practice of repeatedly requesting documentation which they already have. This is the famous principle of once-only: if public administration already has a document it should not repeatedly ask administrations and citizens. Unlocking the timing of procedures is therefore a priority: in the past, however, many measures have also been taken (I am thinking of the substitute powers, the link with the evaluation of managers and the compensation for delays), but the results have always been modest. Instead, I think that coordinated and targeted action is important at this stage. So, I have been thinking about priority and rapid action on the organizational front. There is therefore a need to identify some procedures to be speeded up and on which to intervene; to create multidisciplinary tasks, including with the Structural Funds, to support administrations; to remove obstacles to one-stop-shops. On the training front there is much to be done: we have activated a protocol, in agreement with the Department for the digital transformation, in order to be able to strengthen the digital skills of the workers; we have eliminated the ceiling to the expenditure for the training of the managers; we have established the support and assistance also to the small municipalities in difficulty, that have no employees or whose employees are in difficulty from the point of view of the training; we have directed the staff and part of the resources of the concrete core in order to succeed in finding new procedures of selection of the staff in order to succeed to reduce the time of the performance of the competitive tests and to have trained staff; we must create standard notices. Finally, we launched the eighth course-competition at the National School of Administration (SNA) for second-class executives. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u128	Senator D'Alfonso may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u129	Mr. Minister, we are satisfied, having had a response to the commitment we have asked of you, and also involved in your agenda. The theme of competition courses is fine, not only at the central level, but also in the territories. Keep in mind that today this House has concluded a process of 100 years, as well as there are procedures that last years for the reconstruction of the contributory stock for pension purposes. If you buy a building from the Inail with office function and urban destination and then make it a restaurant, you need a decision of the City Council for the modification of the urban destination. In Bari it takes three years and an investigation, probably; in Rome four years and an investigation, for the imprecision of the public administration, when the large urban categories could also be simplified, because the anthropic load between an office destination and a restaurant does not change, as the fire department says; then it is necessary to review the workloads and the times to define a procedure. The Minister emeritus of the civil service Cassese in 1993, that of the code of quality of the public administration, undertook to say that every procedure must have a maximum time: one hundred years, frankly, are too many. We trust his work and we want to help him. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u130	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u131	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-194.ana.u132	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 25 February at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.04 a.m.
