ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.19 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 15 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u3	I communicate that on 20 October 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 129 of 20 October 2020 laying down urgent provisions for the collection of charges" (1982).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u4	The next item is: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the measures taken for the new phase of the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19. I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u5	Dear President, kind senators and kind senators, the evolution of the epidemiological situation in recent days has made necessary the urgent adoption of a further decree of the President of the Council of Ministers aimed at supplementing the previous decree of 13 October with further measures of a restrictive nature, in order to contain as much as possible the contagion in the presence of a revival of the virus now in place for a few weeks. In view of the urgency and the sudden worsening of the situation, it was unfortunately not possible to explain in advance in Parliament the scheme of the measure. I have therefore informed the Presidents of the Chambers, announcing to them my intention to come to report promptly the content of the measures adopted, pursuant to Article 2 (5) of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. Before reporting on the measures taken, however, I would like to explain the reasons that led the Government to take on these determinations and the ratio underlying all the interventions. First of all, I want to stress that in the months following the most acute phase of the pandemic we have never lowered our guard; Italy was - I remember - the nation that first, with courage and determination, chose to take very strict measures, until lockdown, and then the most prudent country even in reopenings. Several times in Parliament, in previous communications, we have pointed out that, despite the many steps we have taken, we could not and should not consider ourselves in a safe harbor, while in the world and on our borders the contagion multiplied by number and territorial extension. We are aware that citizens, once again, are asking for sacrifices, waivers, limitations on their ordinary life course, with particular regard to community relations. Once again, we are forced to carry out a painful operation of balancing fundamental rights and freedoms, with the aim of identifying the balance that, in ensuring health the most intense protection, involves the least possible sacrifice of the other fundamental rights also involved. The principles that today move the government's action in the containment of contagion are always the same; they are those that have enabled us to overcome effectively the first wave of the pandemic: maximum precaution, adequacy and proportionality, with a view to the priority protection of the life and health of citizens that - it is worth repeating once again - is a prerequisite for the enjoyment of all other rights. The experience of these months has also shown us that protecting health primarily allows to defend better and more effectively also the productive fabric of the country. It would have been impossible to preserve production and protect the economic fabric by neglecting the health of citizens. The intensive work carried out, with the involvement of the experts of the Technical and Scientific Committee - which, once again, I would like to thank publicly on behalf of the whole national community - and with the responsible participation of all the social partners - trade associations and trade unions - has enabled us to define safety conditions in the workplace. The correctness of this choice - which I claim as decisive in the strategy against the pandemic - has been confirmed by this year's economic data, which at the moment are more comforting than expected. Our economy is showing a high resilience, as demonstrated by both the fall in GDP in the second quarter (lower than that of many other European partners) and the economic indicators for the third quarter (which are definitely expected to be positive). It is precisely this decision that enables us to avoid widespread closures throughout the national territory, to bring about the cessation of production and work, the closure of schools and public offices. The strategy to combat this second wave of contagion cannot be the same one adopted in spring, also for the knowledge acquired in these months, for the virtuous practices that are part of our daily experience. Italy is today in a different situation than that of March: at the beginning - we remember - we did not have the means - masks, diagnostic tests, intensive therapies sufficiently capacious - to counter this invisible and insidious enemy. We were not aware, if not vaguely, of the basic procedures for dealing with this challenge. Today we are more ready, thanks to the work and sacrifice of all. To dwell in personalized thanks the list would be very long, let me just thank, once again, all the healthcare professionals who are in the front row in this tough battle. [[Applause]] Let me also thank, in particular, the women and men of Civil Protection, coordinated by the chief, Dr Borrelli, and the Commissioner, Dr Arcuri, who have been constantly engaged and totally absorbed in their tasks for many months now. We have so far distributed more than a billion masks, suits, gloves, shirts, fans, oxygen masks; our plans include doubling the seats in intensive and subtensive care. Health care personnel have been increased by 34,000 units; without considering the increased ability to track, contain and perform diagnostic tests. We currently produce 20 million surgical masks a day and soon we will produce and distribute 30 million of them. Already today we are one of the few - I don't want to venture to say the only, for the utmost caution - countries in the world able to distribute daily a surgical mask for every student. [[Applause]] We also distribute daily 7 million surgical masks to hospitals, residences for the elderly, police forces. We have invested billions of euros in transport, schools, universities, public offices, to ensure safe conditions in the places... [[Comments. Recalls of the President]] We have invested billions in transport, schools, universities, public offices to ensure safe working and study conditions, by adopting protocols that protect students and workers and enable them to continue their normal activities. All the immense work carried out today drives us to deal with the pandemic with a different strategy, focusing attention at national level only on those measures aimed at limiting the conduct and behavior more directly attributable to the sphere of social and recreational relations, currently the vehicle - we are told by epidemiological evidence - of the greater spread of the virus. At regional level, however, it is necessary to remain ready to intervene, according to the structure defined by Decree-Law No 125 of 2020, in order to modulate, if necessary, more restrictive measures if, according to the progression of the virus, there are particular situations and criticalities in specific areas of the Region. The Region, in fact, in order to counter the greater spread of the contagion can introduce measures ulterior regarding those arranged at national level from the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the criteria previewed from the measures of the Government and however in agreement with the Minister of Health. All the more so at this stage, I think it is fundamental - I would say decisive - that the maximum coordination between the different levels of government, according to a method inspired by collegiality and the necessary sharing of choices, which, although differentiated in order to adapt to the changing and erratic course of the contagion, must nevertheless preserve the characteristics of homogeneity and coherence, so that the unitary ratio of the intervention to the emergency is not lost. Already in recent days - and we are now in the news of these last hours - some regions have promoted the procedure in order to reach more restrictive measures than those contained in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. At the moment the iter for the Lombardy Region has ended and the one for the Campania Region is underway; of course, we cannot exclude further updates. The effectiveness of the response remains in any case entrusted to the individual responsibility of each citizen and to the collective responsibility of the entire national community. All the more rigorous will be the respect of the prescriptions from each of us, the more effective will be the containment of the risk of contagion and possible overcome this second wave with the least sacrifice for the country. We must all strive to reduce the chances of infection and avoid unnecessary displacement and unnecessary activities that could create risk. If today we are prepared to face these small sacrifices, tomorrow we will be able to avoid more rigorous and therefore more penalising interventions. On the other hand, it was above all the sense of responsibility and the awareness of sharing a common destiny that allowed us, in the most acute phase, the most unpredictable and unexpected of the pandemic, to win the first battle and to return, even in advance of what was planned, to the habits of life dear to us. I am confident that this time too, as happened during the first wave, the entire national community will be able to express the seriousness, commitment, strength of mind and determination necessary to overcome the difficult challenge we are experiencing. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that I signed on Sunday evening, the result of an intense dialogue between Ministers, majority forces, technical and scientific committee, Regions and local authorities, complements and completes the previous decree of 13 October, with which specific containment measures had already been introduced. In particular, I recall the obligation to always carry breathing protection devices and to wear them in indoor places other than private homes and in all outdoor places, except in specific cases. As regards the life of a report, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 13 October - you will remember - had already provided for certain limitations: the prohibition of parties, indoors or outdoors, with the exception of those resulting from civil or religious ceremonies, for which there is a limit of thirty people; the recommendation - let me add the strong recommendation - to avoid parties even in private homes and to refrain from receiving persons who are not living together in more than six. Catering activities, with some limited exceptions, are allowed with limitations that vary according to the mode of consumption. In order to contain nightlife, during which gathering situations often occur which are extremely dangerous, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers provides for the possibility, after 21 hours, of closing streets or squares in urban centers. On the specific issue, we have eliminated the understandable concerns expressed by the mayors, who feared that they did not have adequate police resources to ensure the effectiveness of the closure intervention. This is why the Minister for the Interior has prepared a directive, specifically addressed to the prefects, which ensures, in agreement and in coordination with the local authorities, that this measure is fully operational. As I have already mentioned, school activities will continue in presence. We cannot afford that one of the main pillars of the country, where the best guarantees of a better future are placed, may suffer further compromises, further sacrifices. We owe it to the commitment so far put by our school leaders, our teachers and administrative, technical and auxiliary staff (ATA), who, even under difficult conditions, have guaranteed the continuity of teaching, experimenting with new and sometimes unexplored teaching activities. We also owe it to families, but we owe it above all to our children, who cannot leave without the value of an unrepeatable experience of cultural and human formation, which is realized in the school through a didactic offer that presupposes and integrates, as a characteristic trait, the fundamental interpersonal relationship. Only second-degree secondary schools are provided with even more flexible ways of organizing teaching activities, which include entrances of students staggered with the possibility of using afternoon shifts as well. As regards higher education, on the other hand, it has been envisaged that universities, in agreement with the Regional University Reference Committee, should draw up, on the basis of the evolution of the epidemiological framework, plans for the organisation of teaching and curricula, in presence or even at a distance, according to training needs, taking into account the evolution of the territorial pandemic framework and the corresponding health security needs. As for the contact sports activities, in addition to the amateur activities already banned - you will remember - with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 13 October, was banned, last but not least, the basic amateur activity, except for the latter, the individual training. Local festivals and fairs are forbidden, but national and international trade fairs are still allowed. Conference and congress activities are allowed, provided that they are carried out in a remote mode. In the context of public administrations, too, it is envisaged that meetings should be held at a distance, except where there are reasons to the contrary. On Monday the Minister for Public Administration Fabiana Dadone issued a decree establishing the use of smart working to more than 50%. We are aware that certain categories - and I am thinking above all, but not only, of the bar and restaurant sector, whose representatives I wanted to meet after the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 13 October - are calling for further sacrifices. In this respect, I assure you that the Government is committed to adopting targeted support measures to benefit these hardest hit productive groups. To this end, with the next budget law for 2021, the Government intends to put in place a strategy that, while acting with a medium and long-term perspective, does not neglect immediate measures: in a still critical phase of the economic situation, the country needs oxygen in order to be able to return to run and to reduce the uncertainty to the maximum. In general, the maneuver aims to protect the economic stability of the country through the maintenance of a substantial fiscal stimulus to our economy. This means that we do not expect any increase in taxes. In a dedicated decree-law we have provided for the further extension until the beginning of the new year of the suspension of the activities of notification of new payment folders, of the payment of the previously sent folders and of the other acts of the Agent of collection. At the same time, we always extend at the beginning of the new year also the period during which we lapse from the installment, with the non payment of ten installments instead of five. In addition, in the budget law we envisage a fund of EUR 4 billion to support the activities most affected by the crisis, such as tourism, culture, entertainment and catering. The repercussions of the crisis are still strong and it is not possible, at this stage, to abandon the protection network set up since the beginning of the crisis in favour of workers and businesses and it is for this reason that we have refinanced a new cycle of the integration fund, providing for the freeness of the integration fund in particular for companies that have recorded losses beyond a predetermined threshold. For the same purpose, the duration of the moratorium on loans is extended; the Central Guarantee Fund is refinanced to provide loans to small and medium-sized enterprises; SACE's intervention is strengthened with public guarantees to support medium-sized and large enterprises; the time extension of measures to support the capitalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises within the European temporary framework on State aid is extended. Also in the field of the transports we will continue to intervene with targeted and adequate measures: against the objective difficulty of reconciling the maximum possible coverage for the public transport with the respect of the norms of interpersonal distancement, in particular following the resumption of the school that - I have already remembered - constitutes for the Government an absolute priority, we have allocated for an ulterior strengthening of the school transport 350 million euros additional for 2021 in favor of Regions and Municipalities. The maneuver also allows us to look at the medium and long term, to erect the pillars necessary to rebuild our potential for growth and social development. In order to achieve a genuine revival of our economy, it is essential to increase participation in work, especially of women and young people, to promote birth, to make our tax system fairer and more efficient, to maximise economic and regulatory efforts to support investment. In the draft budget law we have dealt with each of these priorities. These days - and I am beginning to conclude - and again in the coming weeks we will have to remain well focused above all on the containment of the contagion. We are aware that the enemy has not yet been defeated and still circulates among us. We are still inside the pandemic and the constant increase in contagions requires us to keep our attention very high. This time, however, with the experience of last spring, we will have to work with caution and caution. The Government will continue to maintain its intercourse with Parliament. I therefore prepare to gather all the suggestions and instances that will arise from the speeches that will follow, today in the Senate and tomorrow in the Chamber of Deputies, referring them promptly to the Ministers. The Government will continue to dialogue in a spirit of loyal cooperation, especially with representatives of the regions and local authorities. We must manage with them this phase of the emergency which requires, as the President of the Republic recalled yesterday, the choir of our institutions and of their activities that can only lead us to overcome these difficulties by pursuing a shared, responsible and effective strategy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u7	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council said just now that we must remain focused on the time of infection. I would therefore like to address a few words and draw your attention to the issue of Immuni, the tool we have chosen in order to better monitor the development of contagions and make contact tracing as effective as possible. Very well the number of downloads that have been recorded until today, in the past weeks and also in these days (we are now at 10 million), but bad the number of reports that take place through this application. If we take the number of daily cases of positive people, we divide it by the number of Italians (60 million) and multiply it for Immuni downloads, we get the number of daily expected reports. Well, the number that we have in practice every day through Immuni is far from what we expected: we are in the order of a fifteenth or thirtyth of reports actually made compared to the expected number. This is because today a positive person must report to his or her doctor or to the ATS his or her positivity and deliver his or her code and the operators must insert it into the application through the procedure of the specific card. The last decree of the President of the Council forced, in fact, the ATS and the local ASL to load this code, but - look out, President - the territorial offices today are burdened with many other problems and activities, so they are unable to take on more than ten thousand reports per day, with the corresponding share of the reports of Immuni. I therefore believe it is necessary to remove this task from territorial health and to centralise it in a call center that refers to the Immuni App, so that contact tracing is promoted. Technology, specialization, human resources would recommend it, and above all they would allow it. We need to increase and therefore make contact tracing more efficient. Germany has also centralized this type of activity in a call centre. Furthermore, if we strengthen the reports on the one hand, on the other hand, we also need to strengthen the ongoing examinations, swabs and serological tests. If we upgrade the call centers for the insertion of the Immuni codes, we could also centralize the bookings of these exams: I call the call center to get my slot to be able to take the exam at a given time and at a given location and then I will be more willing, even psychologically, to call to deliver my code so that, in case of positivity, it is inserted into the application. Regions and ATS can prepare agendas for bookings and the call center could centralize the distribution of appointments. We could also create drives in the vicinity of schools and facilitate, through serological tests (greatly to be enhanced), the verification of positive cases. In this way, over twenty-four hours, with the serological test rather than with the swab, we could free up a whole series of people who today are blocked and in this way promote the continuity of the teaching and the school attendance of our children. Attention, Mr President, often you, like so many of us, say that we must proceed in a proportionate manner to the situation we are facing, but this could be a serious mistake because the virus is not proceeding in a proportional but exponential way; therefore we must put in place measures that block this exponential growth. Curfew interventions, such as those adopted by the Lombardy Region, are good, where today - alas - there are 4,000 other cases, but, attention, a national coordination is needed and a real incisiveness is needed. Professor Crisanti, in August, had given a series of suggestions, including the creation of twenty laboratories with a capacity of at least two thousand swabs per day, with the modalities already put in place in Padua, and the strengthening of the capacities of ATS. Unfortunately, some of these suggestions have not been accepted. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that politics has an extraordinary opportunity to show that it really is capable of listening to experts. The technical-scientific committee does not hold the truth and does not have all the skills to understand some passages. Politics would serve the country and also itself if it opened up to competence, knowledge and responsibility with humility. Let's take this step, President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u8	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are here today, in theory, to update us. I would like to read the agenda:'measures taken for the new phase of the epidemiological emergency'. I have to tell you first of all that this title seems a little too optimistic. We see a bunch of individual measures, more or less random and unrelated to each other, without talking about all the implementing decrees that are still missing and you well know, President, that without implementing decrees, the measures are as if they did not exist. Above all we do not see a view of the management of the double crisis, because it is certainly a health crisis but it is also an economic crisis. The approach of yours and of the whole government makes us suspect that your decisions always dislike what you assume is not the electorate of the parties that make up your majority. [[Applause]] : it is small entrepreneurs, VAT matches, traders, restaurateurs, self-employed workers (which, moreover - I would remind you - have not seen the shadow of a refund) and even the managers of gyms and swimming pools, to which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should apologise in this House today. If all this was serious in the first wave, this attitude is unbearable in the second, because it is not a new phase. Language, moreover, is a convention, then we cannot talk about a new phase; indeed, it is a phase that had been widely planned for months. It should therefore explain to us what you have done in these months; of course, you are always the same President of the Council who came here at the beginning of the pandemic to tell us that everything was fine Madame Marquise, that you were super-ready, that there were no problems. Well, they saw the Italians well as you were ready! However, I would like you to tell us what you have been doing over the last few months to strengthen and rationalise the system for tracking the infection. I'm telling you, you didn't do anything. The tracking of the infection in some regions of Italy is really out of control: every day the news shows the queues, the Italian files that are maybe even a whole day in front of your drive-ins. I think you should apologize for that, too. I would like to know, Mr President-in-Office, how you organised the return of the school to safety: did you put the thermoscanners on? Have you extended the spaces? Do you have all the necessary teachers? Do you have all the support teachers you knew you needed? No. Instead you have been delicious for months on wheelchairs, among other things failing also in this, because still today many Italian schools those wheelchairs have not seen them. I would also like you to respond in this House to what you have done to strengthen the public transport service. Did you involve private individuals, since many private companies have buses in the garages and workers at home in the Social Security Fund? When it came to illegals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did you take private hotels or cruise ships and instead can you not use those who have these bus companies to help transport? Instead, you didn't do that either, but you certainly devoted a lot of time to encouraging the scooters of your Chinese friends. [[Comments.]] Get angry, but that's the way it is. [[Applause]] Thank you. When you touch the Chinese, there's an open nerve. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is above all the choice of priorities and timeliness that makes the difference in an emergency. Isn't that why you asked for and extended the state of emergency? How do you think Italians can feel in front of a government that has seriously thought of facing this second pandemic wave by blows of scooters and wheelchairs? [[Comments.]] But I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, without any spirit of controversy, if you have an idea and a vision of how to deal with the epidemic. I do not think so, because his decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, and indeed the two decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which were launched within a week, give us this confirmation. Its internal coherence has already been explained earlier, but above all what has affected is the ease with which it puts the burden and responsibility for closures and prohibitions on local authorities. Perhaps you do not know, because politics is a very recent passion of yours, that the essence of politics is the ability to decide. It is too convenient to say to local authorities and mayors: "Think about it yourself," denouncing his attitude of the first phase, which was the exact opposite. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, must take on your responsibilities: you have a duty to indicate a model with which to combat this emergency. If his model were a new lockdown of the country system, it would certainly make us shudder, but at least it would be a model. He must then have the courage to say it clearly, instead of having others do the dirty work and, however, every day, wink at the lockdown. Maybe you're afraid to see the Italians drop their liking? Are you afraid to see the percentage drop in the polls? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). I shall conclude, Mr President. It would be good, however, for you to become aware that, in order to beat the emergency of the Covid-19, you need to change the paradigm and - as Giorgia Meloni said - no longer talk about local and national closures, but to worry about protecting the weakest people, the elderly and those who have already had previous pathologies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). This, I believe, is what should be done. You should have the courage to change the paradigm and, above all, to stop the litany for which the opposition does not want to cooperate. We, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, would like to cooperate, but we are used to assuming our responsibilities, while you have entrusted them to the local authorities, because you do not have the courage to do what you think within yourself, namely a new lockdown of the country system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u10	Colleagues, I would ask you to respect the time. Each group has fifteen minutes. If we all start to overtake, we can't do it on live television.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u12	Mr President, in the time of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, citizens are not all the same and money is not seen or, better, depends. An important shareholder of the Treasury, Leonardo, is led by a convicted for fake in the balance sheet: six years of imprisonment was the conviction for Alessandro Profumo for an affair involving a bank saved with public money, a sentence that could now trigger a series of cases for compensation. In another season the 5 Stars, which today are the first force of the Government, would occupy Parliament until the resignation of Profumo; for much and much less other Ministers have resigned, but the appetites change and Perfume remains firmly in the saddle, confirmed, despite being under trial - and you all knew - by a government friend of friends. Perfume is said to be serene because it evidently has its shoulders covered by the Government and that Ministry that is more and more the safe harbor of powerful hungry and in distress. The Ministry of Economy and Finance, shareholder of Leonardo as ENI, must position Monte dei Paschi. Who will you give it to? Former Minister Padoan's Unicredit? By the way, but if they condemn Descalzi in Milan for international corruption, what will you do, another hypocritical scene? First you confirm them and then you make the scenes? Perfume, in short, stays in the saddle, covered by Count, the Democratic Party and the 5 Stars, all covered, covered and reserved, like the State guarantees on the loan to FCA. Why so much secrecy on that public guarantee, President Conte? What do you fear? What transparency frightens you? Take the secret off that warranty. Speaking of FCA, you had the Fedez-Ferragni couple make a video to convince the kids to wear masks: maybe you too will have been told that these embarrassing masks can't put them on. It's these surgical ones. (Senator Paragon shows a mask to the Assembly). Are you going to the O.R. with these masks, Deputy Minister Sileri? These are the masks. How much did these masks cost? You didn't even banish the competition to make these mask fetishes. Of course, the sense of modesty also has a limit. That limit you miss when you have to deal with the Benettons. Where are your sad penultimates? What number of fandonies have you arrived at? Have you told Italians about the highways yet? Yes, after the funeral of the victims of the Morandi Bridge. Mr President, you are not in a position to govern Italy, neither you, nor your Government, nor those super commissioners that you pull out like bunnies speckled with magic cylinders. Arcuri is an employee of the Italians; who knows if anyone remembers this expression. Why don't you take the questions of all the journalists? Why do you miss press conferences? Why are you hiding the cards? Above all, how dare you say that the fault is of the Italians who gathered this summer? Obviously Arcuri has never taken public transport and therefore does not know what it means to get on the vehicles in rush hours, especially in these times. What did it take to make deals with taxi drivers to dispose of the flows? You're disliked by taxi drivers because you know they criticize you? Or you could promote agreements with companies that already operate in the field of coach transport. That way you would have turned the real economy around. Of course, if you have to worry about Perfume, Elkann and all your living room friends, you don't have time to dedicate to Italians. To the suffering, humble, responsible Italy. The Italy of the people who get up early in the morning to put together the lunch with the dinner, the Italy of the artisans and the merchants with the breath on the neck of the bankers that you protect, the Italy of the small and medium entrepreneurs who still wait to be paid by the public administration, the Italy that you want frightened and sparred because you think to control it better with the help of publishers and newspapers that produce the masks. You do not have time for Italy for restaurateurs, hoteliers and all those you will have to close directly or indirectly with decisions by Pontius Pilate. Italy of families, where dads and moms tremble for the next layoffs and where graduate children deliver packages and food at home. Italy that pays the bills of light and gas, unlike some of you, Ministers, who live in the Ministries and therefore are maintained by the Italians. This Italy is light years away from your eyes and your hearts because you are now cynical and hard of heart. Honour to the Italians for good. Long live Italy, away from Brussels... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u13	Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u14	Mr President, with your permission, I would also like to try to return to the subject on our agenda. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you on behalf of the Democratic Party for your timely and timely information. The latest data on the pandemic that has reminded us and that we have been able to observe these days, including today's ones, are unfortunately very worrying with the 4,000 cases of my Lombardy. These figures tell us that the second wave of the pandemic is perhaps more violent than we have believed in the past few weeks and that therefore a right, the right of health, as you rightly pointed out, returns to the top of the others. From the beginning we have chosen to fight the pandemic by making us strong of a combination: state interventions, on the one hand, and virtuous behaviour of citizens, on the other. Well, I think that this is exactly the combination to be renewed and that can only be renewed through a clear pact of mutual trust, a pact that we must first feed by setting an example as institutions, as government and as Parliament. It is right, Mr President, to reiterate the importance of a progressive and proportional approach. I allow myself to interpret his words, humbly, adding that progressiveness does not necessarily mean slowness and that progressiveness does not necessarily mean unilaterality. We will be faced with possible interventions of greater restrictions that we will have to assume quickly, we will also have, when the data will allow us to do so, loosening interventions and we will be the first to ask for them and to share them with the whole Government and with the majority. We argued for several months that we had to learn how to handle the pandemic, that we even had to live with the virus. Let us remember all the debates in this House. Well, I think that today we are at the hard test of the facts and that is the political point of this urgent information. I also say this in order not to cause unnecessary panic or confusion. We must try to give Italians, on the basis of what we have experienced in these six months, some points and see if we are able to do so. First of all, state, regions, local authorities and, in particular, municipalities are the same thing in the eyes of citizens and there is no bureaucratic difference that can make the State perceive it as something that is not one: the Republic in its entire representation. [[Applause.]] Can we tell ourselves that it was and would be harmful to differentiate between institutional levels only for the sake of arriving first or last in loosening or closing, perhaps because of political differences with the government? I think so. We can reiterate that the maximum coordination of institutional levels is absolutely essential and that all together we need to take responsibility, from North to South, to guarantee for everyone the right to care and health and at the same time that we take charge of uniform protocols, flu vaccines for all Italians and a wide monitoring and screening, especially in those places that, thanks to lockdown, have not fully lived the first phase of the pandemic and, therefore, are objectively at risk for a reaction of the system that we have not experienced, as has happened in the most unfortunate cases of our territory. The second point is that we are in the conditions - it has remembered - to avoid a new general lockdown. The third point is that we are in a position to keep open schools and places of work not only by choice, even if this is a choice because we got there choosing to get there. [[Applause.]] We have arrived - we can say this - because we are strong in the fact that they have been designed, prepared and implemented health security provisions that allow us to say that these places of work and school remain open. This does not mean - I am referring to the school - that the teaching methods cannot be modulated, especially for older children, that access to school and teaching places cannot be modulated, that timetables cannot be modulated, but it allows us to say that school is a safe place that has learned to live with the virus. [[Applause.]] If we have doubts, we must work immediately to get rid of them, because this cannot but be a firm point. I'm coming to the fourth stop. Even in the light of the fact, unfortunately, that we will have in front of us the next six months without vaccine - this is a fact - I think we must reiterate that the investment of this Government and this Parliament in territorial medicine, which we have been discussing intensively over the last few months, remains an absolute priority. [[Applause.]] Where there are still shortcomings - I still think of my Region, Lombardy - every intervention, even subsidiary and solidarity from the Government, must be done immediately. The fifth point is that we will no longer close any health benefits or any other health benefits that are not Covid. I say this because this is also a choice that we have made and we have promised the Italians in recent months. I also remember that fortunately, thanks to our extraordinary doctors and researchers, today we are able to cure Covid patients better than we were able to do in recent months. This is one of the reasons why we need to keep the principle that we keep most of the other medical services open. The sixth and final point is that we are standing by - as you yourself rightly said, Mr President, and I thank you for that - all those, without limits to aid, who will once again suffer damage from this resumption of the pandemic. The list may be much longer and I stop for reasons of time, but I think I have made the idea of what I wanted to say. We made commitments by saying that we would learn to live with the virus and today we must bear in mind that we respond to those commitments by saying that we are there and that we are keeping them. I close on the MES, not before a very short recording on the public competitions. We note that they want to continue, despite such a significant increase in contagion. I am just saying this: if everything is held - I said it at the beginning - on that relationship of mutual trust State-citizens, if the State provides that a person is in isolation and cannot physically participate in a public competition, the same State must put that person in a position to do the public competition at another time. There is nothing worse than a State that gives with one hand and takes away with the other. [[Applause]] Mr President, talking about MES - we all know this and it is pointless to hide it - is not to give vent to the curiosity of journalists or to a whim of the Democratic Party or of others who are interested in it. Reality is often much simpler than you think. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr. President, I'm done. The violent regrowth of the pandemic is triggering a natural automatism among ordinary people: the fragility of the health system grows, so more money is needed for the health system - for sure to take more doctors at once - so why not the MES? I am one of those who thought it was convenient to activate the ESM, even for reasons of savings of 500 million euros, last July after the recovery fund agreement. However, I have neither now nor alone, and along with the whole Democratic Party, an ideological approach to this issue. But again we ask you to have a transparent moment when Parliament can make an effective and definitive assessment of this instrument. Moreover, in the global uncertainty in which we are, we have a certainty: any indefinity - I do not call it ambiguity, but indefinability - on issues that concern the budget, the economy and the debt of our country, is reflected on the reputation of Italy and our country pays dearly. In front of us a time still not easy. It takes short foot to manage the emergency every day and long head to continue to draw, even with the recovery plan, a country more just, more competitive, more sustainable, with all the details we discussed last week. All this is extremely difficult, but it is necessary to do so and it is possible to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u15	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, Vice-Ministers and Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, we, as always, are the best reference of ourselves. We've always been a majority... Excuse me, a minority: that's what you say a wishful thinking, a hopeful thought. [[Applause]] We have always been a minority full of ideas, who believed that collaboration, which you have often proposed to us, was not just a word, but a path. Since March we have been offering you cooperation: for seven months now, we have proposed recipes that have worked not only in Italy when we were in the government, but also at this time in other parts of Europe, where unfortunately the same delicate, dramatic pandemic moment is being faced. Believe me, we are not here to argue and we are aware of the difficulty, especially here, especially now, especially at this stage, of combining the reasons for health, prevention and the precautionary principle with the reasons for the economy. But that is precisely why we say to you, Mr President, looking us in the eye, looking all the colleagues in the government in the eye: have the courage to tell the truth. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this was not the truth of honest numbers; it was not the truth of seven months gone by, not in the factual and proactive prediction of the second wave. She told us the story of a moment that we should face together. Many, starting with the President of the Republic, call for margins, always respecting the mutual roles, of cohesion and collaboration in the general interest. But - I repeat - collaboration is not complicity. You propose to us the text of a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers already signed, prepared and written, on which you made a phone call five minutes before making a press conference. I promise you that we will not spoil the measures and we will not do the press conference before you. [[Applause]] Please tell us, however, a little in advance what are the contents of your measures, maybe before closing them, to allow us to insert measures that could serve the country. [[Applause]] We listen to the country, without the arrogant thought of doing so under a monopoly regime; we listen to it very carefully, as you have heard, Mr President. You, Mr Conte, have made a list of health issues that seem to work. But, then, I ask you why - news from the real world - there are eight to ten hours of tail to drives in to make swabs. [[Applause]] Why do the basic doctors (those whom you thanked) still complain? The best thanks is to put them in a position to do their job in safe conditions, to help all of us [[Applause]] , 181 lives of doctors and health workers are sufficient. We should have already learned how to deal with this pandemic. I use the plural maiestatis to prevent you from thinking that, for us, the concept of collaboration offering is a word as it is for you, while for us it continues to be a path. When you said (I am referring to the so-called re-launch decree) that you would increase the number of intensive therapies to 3,500 and that of sub-intensive therapies (I look at Deputy Minister Sileri because we talked to him) to 4,200 we believed you. This is part of the measure on which we have supported you. Why is it only 1,300? [[Applause]] An opposition has a duty to ask you why you have lost seven months of time and a majority has a duty to explain why this time has been wasted. You have made promises saying that you have the resources and on this, frankly, I do not understand why, Mr President, you are so afraid of the debt when you talk about the fund saves states, as if the 120 billion euros of deviation you made on the Italians' shoulders, with lots of interest, were not debt, as if the Sure on the integration fund, due to be accepted by you for our country, were not debt, as if the Next Generation EU (and I stress Next Generation, because it may be the measure that will launch Italy in a new phase of recovery and recovery of consumption, or what will load on future generations mountains of debt) was not also a debt with a much more uncertain interest rate of the fund saves States. [[Applause]] You promised us 81,000 doctors and health workers, but there are barely 30,000. Where are the others? You speak of competitions, Mr President, and of school as a success. True, I agree with colleagues who say that school is a safe place. Of course, it is if the security protocols are applied. But school leaders, teachers and school workers are the new heroes and you have to arrange it. You have placed an extraordinary burden of responsibility on their shoulders. [[Applause]] Let me turn to the theme of the new competitions. The organic plants, unfortunately, are almost significantly empty, in the sense that many school leaders say they cannot do the hourly alternation and put in place what you said, because there are no people and teachers, or there are fragile teachers who are not able to play that role. Mr President, these are the news from the real world. The school is safe; it is not necessary to close it, as some Presidents of the Region have done, and it is not necessary to give them the alibi to do so, leaving local public transport in the indecent condition in which it is placed. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, 85% of the coverage of local public transport means chopping like sardines disguised the 30 million commuters who move every day. The 8 million students and a million school staff who get up every morning to go to school cannot put them on buses, subways and couriers in conditions of non-security. [[Applause]] That's where they get the Covid! Or perhaps you think, and with you the majority and the whole government, that everything is going well? Of course, the Scientific and Technical Committee does not think so, since there have also been recent statements by members of that committee in the opposite direction: that is not the case, on the contrary, many things are going very badly. Let me help you solve them. [[Applause.]] Therefore, when we tell you that local public transport is not enough, it is not true that on average it is 53 percent of the capacity. Do you know Trilussa's chickens? It's like saying she eats a chicken, I eat zero chickens, and we ate half a chicken each. It's not like that: she's the only one who ate the chicken! [[Applause.]] It's 80 percent of what matters, except that you don't think that the Covid wakes up at midnight like Catherine Deneuve, only goes to crowded clubs and moves with its own means. No, the Covid is everywhere, and most of the contagion lies precisely in those places that cannot be avoided, and where, unfortunately, crowding, promiscuity have not been the subject of safety rules. [[Applause.]] I still have a lot to say to you, Mr President, but, unfortunately, time is short. Please come back, because we know that the text of your last decree is already obsolete. We are sure that next weekend we will see each other again, even if not directly. We always follow her very carefully; it is a sort of sequel for us to wait for her press conference! [[Applause.]] We hope that next week will be here again because, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, believe me, I really have a lot to say to you. I will leave it to Mr Saccone and his colleagues who will follow some of the many arguments that we would like to bring to your attention from a constructive, non-destructive perspective. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, no one is saved by himself. Do you remember the words of the Holy Father? Nobody saves themselves. Please don't think you can go on with the narration of the great helmsman who takes the country out of the sandboxes of the pandemic and the economic, social and health crisis. You don't save yourself. Unfortunately, alone you only end up in the dark alley of infinite fear. We do not want and will not allow to exploit states of mind such as fear, anger and uncertainty of Italian citizens. We will be there, but only to be constructive, just to be there with our proposals, with our programs, with the help we have always given the government and that we will never stop giving, but the government must recognize it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u17	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Council, Ministers, Undersecretaries, we are discussing today the Premier's information regarding the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers adopted a few days ago. Yet, from the words of the Premier himself and some press agencies, we already know that in the coming hours or days there will be yet another decree by the President of the Council of Ministers. Be careful, President: this is not synonymous with efficiency, but confusion, improvisation by this Government, which certainly does not help Italy, does not help the Italians. [[Applause.]] We had, indeed - I would like to speak to the present - I hope that we still have an important advantage over the management of this second phase of the pandemic; an advantage that is given to us by the suffering and sacrifices that our fellow countrymen have made in recent months during the first phase. An advantage that came from the studies of our scientists, from the work of our doctors and health workers. An important advantage that should have enabled us to face the second stage in a different way. Unfortunately, this advantage has been wasted, squandered, but I want to hope that it is still standing and that it can still be saved from an unpleasant event that has characterized its action and that of its Government, that is the fact that in recent months, in the summer months, this Government has literally slept instead of working night and day to prepare in a responsible way the management of the second phase of the pandemic. [[Applause.]] He slept compared to the increase in beds in intensive therapies. We all know that the decree-law that allowed the investment from this point of view was of 18 May last, while the notices were made only a few days ago. He slept with respect to the employment of nurses, about 10,000, to be joined by family doctors, who are the backbone of territorial medicine. Nothing has been done but the intake of a few thousand. He slept compared to school. Everyone said that the school year was not started safely, except because of the responsibility of school leaders, mayors and teaching staff. He also slept compared to the tampons. There are so many rows of our fellow citizens that we are forced to see in front of public or private structures to carry out the swabs, when this Government should have produced so many, to administer flat, in order to reduce the rows. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, an action by the Government is weighed down, it is also assessed on the basis of the logic of its measures; from the logic of its measures derives, then, the credibility of those who represent the Government and the reliability of a government action. If an action is not logical, it becomes unbelievable. If we are forced to attend - for example - daily bus scenes filled with citizens and then a decree by the President of the Council prohibits school trips, do you tell me what credibility a government can have in front of a national community? [[Applause]] If - for example - we ban a football match and we are unable to block the competition for the recruitment of teachers, which sets in motion about 66,000 people these days, does it tell me what credibility they can have a government, its President, and government action? [[Applause]] Among other things, Mr President, this is a competition that is not urgent, because it would employ staff from next year and for the next three years, while the League has always proposed a faster and more effective solution, namely to assume from the rankings that we already have available. I also heard about economic aid. The problem is that we keep hearing about it, but it's just talk, just promises. Our entrepreneurs and professionals are still waiting, while within the majority we are discussing whether MES yes or MES no, when and if resources and projects are still lacking. That's the truth. I want to decline these last thoughts on three words: collaboration, transparency, pride. Mr President, it is now statistically proven that you are allergic to cooperation. [[Applause]] The announcement of a measure and the current information now do not mean collaboration. Collaboration is to sit down, argue, discuss, deepen, evaluate and do the impossible, because in these moments it is necessary the effort of all political forces and not only those of majority, to put in place a strategy that will get us out of the best possible way and as soon as possible from the difficulty we are facing. You have always tried to keep Parliament apart, so much so that everyone, by now, is actually defining ours as a single-chamber democracy. He has had the opportunity to quarrel in the past with the Presidents of the Italian Regions and has now also had the courage to quarrel with the Italian mayors. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, something serious happened before your decree came out: you lied to the mayors. During the meeting with the ANCI - said the President of ANCI - you made no mention of the possibility that the mayors were given the burden of creating red zones within the city. [[Applause]] It was a surprise for all the mayors to learn it only from his press conference, except then put the word "sindaci", remove it, put it back. The fact is that the Minister of the Interior, with a circular yesterday, reiterated the fresh water: the power to close squares and streets is at the head of the mayors, both as a local health authority and as government officers... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] .. they can agree with the prefectures and the quaestures everything else. A word of advice, Mr President: speak less to Fedez and Ferragni and listen more to the territory and the mayors. [[Applause.]] In conclusion, there is a need for transparency: here, too, we are still calling for the minutes of the Scientific and Technical Committee to be made available to Parliament automatically and in full form, and not after 45 days. There are two reasons: firstly, to know data, numbers and dynamics means to make Parliament aware of the situation in which we live and, above all, to be able to contribute to predicting a path out of this pandemic; secondly, Mr President - and I say this with sincere respect for the office it holds - unlike you, we parliamentarians have been elected by the citizens, and we must give them account. Pride... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] The President of the Republic made a warning yesterday. What is this second phase of the pandemic? It is a proof of pride, of that deep, Italian and only such pride, which shines from the eyes of parents who, hopefully, want to give a future to their children.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u19	Conclude, please, Senator Pepe.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u20	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is a proof of that pride that shines from the eyes of those who have lowered a screen and, with dignity, raised it up and does not want to lower it; of that pride that shines from the eyes of doctors and health workers, who have endangered their lives in order to save that of others. We are here, Mr Conte, because we think we must win this test: it is up to you to understand what you want to do when you grow up. Let me give you one last tip: let every decision be determined not by the balance that this Government must hold, but by the interest of the Italians and the future of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u21	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, luckily for us, at such a difficult time for our country, but also for the whole world, we have this Government and this majority. It is a good thing that there are this Commission and this majority, with clear ideas. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to congratulate him on his excellent report. Fortunately, we have a government and a majority that, with the constant stimulus of the 5 Star Movement, have set the highest objective immediately, that of protecting the health of the citizens and therefore, have adopted - indeed, we are taking - appropriate and proportional decisions to the situation, to contain the development of the contagion, but, at the same time, unprecedented measures in Republican history, for the protection of workers, businesses, VAT matches, craftsmen and traders, so that this dramatic period can pass with the least possible damage and in the shortest possible time. It's a good thing that the government didn't ask a year ago for full powers, which are the same ones who at the beginning of the pandemic pretended to open everything and then, after a few days, to close everything. The government does not have them, who have said everything and its opposite, in order to make a post on Twitter or Facebook, to attack this government in such a dramatic moment, to caress the belly of the citizens afraid and in difficulty or to climb a point or two in the polls. It is a good thing that no one has shown what he would do with public health, the importance of which has been emphasized more than ever by the Covid and this pandemic. Yes, because the center-right and the League, especially in the regions they administer, have weakened, emptied, dismembered and cut public health [[Applause]] , actually favoring the private one. It is a political plan that has left wounds on the living flesh - it is the case to say so - of the citizens and that is not much talked about, but that should be told more often and better, because this is what is really at stake, and not the mask or the muzzle - as they have called it - not the supposed health dictatorship or the panzana of the Covid-19 that is deliberately imported with migrants: these are irresponsible statements, unworthy of serious political forces and that perhaps have led some citizens to feel superfluous to protect themselves with the mask or adopt social distance. But these, after all - as I said - are boutades, they are also aware of those who propalate them, they are tarantelle to throw smoke in the eyes, because the real objective are the business, that is, for example, the colossal ones that can be done with health care, better if private health. So let's tell the citizens the truth. We tell the system of the so-called revolving doors, in which at one time you are a politician and in another you are part of an entrepreneurial group whose revenues depend on the choices of politics. Do you want some examples? I quote the former Berlusconian Minister of Interior and Foreign Affairs Alfano, who becomes president of the San Donato group of the Rotelli family, who is a colossus of private health, or always in Lombardy, always in the same group, enters the board of some hospitals the leghista Maroni, several times Minister and former President of the Region. Are those coincidences? Nor am I surprised - to make another example - that the President of the Region of Umbria, the Legist Thesei, is trying to follow the same plan by opening the doors to the group of the deputy forceist Angelucci, emptying in fact also in this case the public health of that Region. In this regard, the Movimento 5 Stars has always been pushing for a real law on conflict of interest, which today is finally under consideration by the House, with which we intend to sweep away these gelatinous interweavings between politics and business. But there are many other reasons why the League and the center-right should look into their own home, instead of insinuating with an increasingly worn out narrative that Government and majority would not be able to handle the situation. They should look at the wicked choice of Governor Fontana and his Councillor Gallera to let the sick Covid-19 into the RSA; should look at other pages to say the least embarrassing, such as the story of the shirts, in which the order passes first from supply and then becomes a donation, among other things, to a company of the wife and brother-in-law of Governor Fontana; or as the advice obtained from the daughter of Fontana always from some hospitals or social health companies in Lombardy. After all, it is natural to wonder whether the merit of avoiding hundreds or thousands of deaths for the Covid of our fellow citizens is that of those who even refused to wear the mask in the Senate, or those who, like us, delivered free of charge to millions. Let's forget, therefore, the instrumental polemics on the mask and ask ourselves - as I said before - about the real stakes: what country do we want? An Italy with A-series private school and health care and B-series public school and health? Do we want a country where, in order not to die of treatable diseases, we need to be rich or have insurance? Do we want a country where, if you don't have money, you can't go to the dentist or access some specialist care? We of the Movimento 5 Stars do not want a country like this and we are fighting in this sense. [[Applause]] I was just saying that the crisis of the Covid-19 has shown incontrovertibly how important it is to have a widespread and efficient public health, with adequate means, structures and staff. And we are so convinced that we have reversed the trend of recent years, which had weakened the National Health Service by returning to invest in the health sector as much as seven billion euros since the Movimento 5 Stars is to the Government, to which will be added 4 billion euros of the next budget law, and therefore 11 billion euros in an area that we consider neurological, strategic and social protection. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we do not claim to be perfect, on the contrary we want and we must continue to be modest, but the recognition of the government's work from abroad, from all over the world, comforts us and confirms that we are on the right track, on the path of seriousness, rigour, adequacy and proportionality of the measures. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for everything the Government has done, with the constant help of the majority, and for what it will do and also for all the times - ten with today since the beginning of the pandemic - which has come to report to Parliament in spite of what it says and which the opposition has just said. Thanks again: the country is in good hands, ours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u23	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u24	Mr President, I was a little surprised to hear the previous speaker. If you want to come to dinner with me one evening, I will explain the difference between private health, public health and recognised health, as well as the fact that in Lombardy, thanks to competition between public and private, the public has improved much, even more than private. I will also explain to him - but it took little time to control him - that my friend Alfano was, yes, minister of the Berlusconi Government, but then also of the Monti Government and its ally Renzi for a long time. It's basic information, it's not very difficult to find out and not make statements - I don't want to use the wrong adjectives - "unexact." Having said that, Mr President, I would like to address you. As lawyers do how many judges are inattentive, I will wait until you finish talking to your neighbor to speak to her with courtesy and - I assure you - with real concern for what is happening: not for the gravity, which may be there, but for how we are facing this definitely dangerous phase. It is dangerous because, as was to be expected, there is a growth of the contagions - we will see to what extent of the diseases, but certainly of the contagions - but there is also a huge growth - President, I assure you, I visually control it day after day of fear and anguish. There is almost a paranoia that is investing the Italians. I believe, Mr President, that the problem is no less serious than the pandemic, because it also creates a problem for the pandemic. You understand that if there's excessive alarmism, every single cough you go to the hospital, you want to swab and clogged everything. There is a communication problem that makes the difference between alarm and alarmism. I think it is creating alarmism, while a measured dose of alarm would be more than justified. Mr President, there is no doubt that at the beginning of the summer we had zeroed the negative effects of the first phase. Sure, but how? We did it by locking ourselves in and making sacrifices. By the way, perhaps we should give a different reading - I am not addressing you this time, but more to the media - than what happens in the world, because in England it is Boris Johnson's fault, in America it is Trump's fault, in Brazil it is Bolsonaro's fault - look a bit ': all not really left, even if I can not consider them sure right - while in Italy it is the fault of the Italians. In Italy it's the fault of the Italians and we don't talk about France, because in the end Macron is a friend and we don't talk about Merkel because it's good to keep it good. It's a weird reading. You see, I've pinned things to myself. According to the Minister of Education Azzolina, the school is safe. According to the Minister of Transport De Micheli, transport is safe: he has not checked what happens in trams, metro and local transport, but he says that they are safe. For Swordfora the gyms are safe. For Minister Lamorgese, whom I esteem, migrants are not vehicles of contagion; how do they all get crammed and then not be a vehicle of contagion I don't know, but he says so. Then the only one you don't hear is the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Bonetti family. And, in fact, the official version of the Government is that it is the Sunday lunches of Italian families that are the real cause of the rise of the contagions. [[Applause]] It is a distracting and disturbing reading of what is actually happening and it is no coincidence that your decrees of the President of the Council - as advice, less bad, because at first it seemed an obligation - focused on family lunches and on how many people we can invite: no more than six at home, absolutely not. Several jokes are circulating about this. We knew, Mr President, that there would be an increase in the number of infections that - beware - is not exponential - someone said so - because the number of infections has grown, but the number of patients has not exponentially increased. When we were at the crucial moment, only those who had symptoms were hit. Today the swabs are made to anyone who makes a cough or simply to someone who has passed by someone who has made a cough. Then the infected become many, but fortunately 95 percent - sometimes more - are asymptomatic, that is, they are not sick, and that does not mean that there is no risk for the remaining 5 percent of clogging our health systems. The real problem is this: the danger of clogging the public and - fortunately - even private health systems. So, Mr President, you have had and spent 100 billion, which is equivalent to three budget laws. How did you spend 100 billion waiting for the well-known second phase or winter phase to return? How did you spend it? Did you spend it on controlling the summer returns? Did you put border controls on who came back from vacation abroad? I am not talking about immigrants, for Christ's sake; those, as you know, do not create a problem: you said it just now, the Minister said it. No, nothing has been done, perhaps because of the phobia towards the borders. Checking borders is something that on the left doesn't like and then we let anyone in, and I'm not talking about irregular immigrants, but Italians coming back and regular immigrants. The controls were very low. As far as school is concerned, colleagues have spoken and I do not want to go any further, but could it not be better anticipated than the disastrous one that is taking place? As far as transport is concerned, I do not want to be ironic about scooters, since it has already been done, nor about the stripes on the ground for bicycles, as if the problem of transport in metropolitan cities where you move for tens and tens of kilometers can be solved by bicycles and scooters. But I say - blessed God - the local transport could not be integrated by bringing in those who worked in the private and had to close the buses in the garages? No, absolutely nothing has been done. But what's worse is the health system: is it possible that we couldn't achieve even 33% of what you yourself said you wanted to do when it came to intensive treatment? In fact, there was a controversy with Lombardy. By the way, it is clear that, having 11 million inhabitants, if statistics are made on the number of patients, of course Lombardy will have more and, therefore, should be considered at least the percentage. However, would it not have been easy, with those hundred billions, to prepare all possible needs for people who - especially with the health alarmism that has been created - would have turned to health facilities? You didn't do that at all. As you can see, I'm not making the noise to some last-time or first-time negator. We never were, on the contrary. It is the difference between alarm and alarmism that we regret - I repeat and I will tell you also in the end - as if the curve of the pandemic, of the contagion must always be seen with one eye to the curve of the popularity of the government or its staff. We did not like this; we have this impression. You will excuse us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if we have the impression that, if there had not been a pandemic, someone would have wanted to invent it. It seemed to us that way and, of course, it did not go that way at all. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that we should try to look at the problem on the other hand, to change the paradigm, as has already been said. We must follow what they are doing - for example - in Germany where the numbers that are communicated do not take into account the unsick, the asymptomatic ones; it serves not to create alarmism, then it controls itself as well. Instead of closing, blocking, taking it out on the kids, on the family lunches, there is the possibility to have as a priority the protection of the weakest, the oldest, those from my age up, if you want. You have to protect them, try to find the system to help them at home, in every need, instead of blocking our economy as you are trying to do. The difference between alarm and alarmism lies in the way in which you deal with the pandemic; if you want, you can do so from a substantial collaboration: statistically, so far you have not accepted only one of our amendments. If you want to cooperate, listen to us and don't let us know at the last minute about the confusing things you've done in the last few months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u25	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u26	Mr President, I would actually like to express a sentiment - as they say - provided to me by a very authoritative senator who is listening to me at this moment, who, to an expression of my disappointment at this debate, said - and I sincerely fear that he is right, in the brutality of the expression - that he is a ventilator. Colleagues, I do not believe that, in front of the data that are coming today as in recent days, we can afford to ventilate [[Applause]] The majority cannot afford it and the opposition cannot afford it either. Speaking of the expression "sfogatoio," I thought of a phrase by Mahatma Gandhi that said that life is not waiting for the storm to pass, it is learning to dance in the rain. It is clear that it is raining and it is clear that we cannot hope only in the italic star, but each of us must equip ourselves to the necessity. Therefore, first of all, if we really want to defend the role of Parliament and we want to be able to say, perhaps even to the Government in so many circumstances - it is logical, it is the dialectic between Parliament and Government - that Parliament must be informed more, that there must be more consultation, we must avoid the ventilaters, because otherwise frankly these are missed opportunities and not positive opportunities for dialogue between majority and opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some worrying data. I accept the idea that we must not alarm ourselves, but we must not underestimate the reality; a reality which is being invested in these hours throughout Europe and to which President Conte's colleagues are trying to provide in even more brutal and radical terms than those of the Italian Government. The things that go and the things that don't go, colleagues, we all see them, but we can't even be childish. It is pointless for us who support the government to explain that the Commission has done everything possible, because no one in this situation can believe that they have done everything possible. Certainly the government has made mistakes, as inevitably would have happened to anyone who ruled the country at this time. As for the opposition, for the sake of Fatherland, colleagues, I do not want to argue with anyone, but let us think about the variables in the mood of the members of the opposition, who in the morning asked for closure and in the evening asked for openings, or vice versa. Fortunately, they have not been tested, because the variability of time has been less than the variability of their opinions. Personally, I have even heard members of the opposition who, in the course of an hour and a half of TV debates, left in one way and ended in another. This is to say the objective difficulty in trying to reconcile and balance rights and duties. There is the economic emergency, which no one escapes. I read in the newspapers that the President-in-Office of the Council is against a new lockdown: he is right in a sense because, if we expect a new lockdown today and close it radically again, without looking anyone in the face, we risk having much greater damage than the health care we might have. It is therefore a question of safeguarding economic needs and health security and it is not easy. We have sectors on our knees: we think of some industrial sectors, tourism, empty hotels, the centres of the deserted city, restaurateurs, bars; we think of the many who are losing their jobs. Colleagues, we really try to make a common effort and move forward together. As far as I am concerned - for example - I am glad that the schools have been reopened and I do not think that being at school is at this moment a factor that plays against the safety of citizens. Certainly, however, in addition to preparing the benches with the wheels, we had to think about transport. When I hear that there is a need to lengthen school hours, it is right, because it means staggering on the means of transport the children who go to school, but then it is about having the janitors, the school staff, who is not available for long hours, because there are rigidities inherited largely from the past. And this also applies to intensive therapies. Yes, the machines have been supplied, but we know that there is no staff required. First Senator Beginini in his speech spoke of the difficulties of the Immuni app and did so without politicalistic tones, in technical terms, telling exactly the truth. This is also one of the big issues we have on the table, but we must try to resolve them. It is clear, in fact, that the staff that was dedicated to Immuni today has other priorities, so it will obviously be a matter of organizing it differently. Do we want to give the cross to Arcuri and the technicians, so maybe we can save our conscience? I think it's a bad way of doing things. If we are people who make sense of the state, at this moment we must try not to give ourselves the cross with each other, like Renzo's capons, throwing at us in the emergency, rebuke each other. No: it is a matter of taking note that the situation is objectively difficult and helping; helping is fundamental. I would like to end because then I think that the President-in-Office of the Council has come to this House out of respect for Parliament; this is an honour to him and I thank him. Probably, however, the technical advice that Senator Casini could give him comes from others who give it to him in more depth and with more experience in the field than I can have or that we can have. However, I have some experience and the contribution that comes from it, ladies and gentlemen, leads me to quote a phrase from a well-known Athenian who said that cities defend themselves with the spears of young people and with the council of the elderly. Well, I want to give advice in the finale of this intervention. The council is addressed to President Conte, but also, in reality, to all of us. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council will not at this moment be evaluated solely for how he has dealt with the emergency in a dramatic situation, for how he defended Italy in Europe; the President-in-Office of the Council is also called - with a force that I believe must also find from occasions like this and we must give him this strength - to measure his role and its effectiveness in the relationship with the opposition, colleagues. [[Applause]] The opposition has responsibilities and we are not unaware of what many of the opposition have done in today's debate. What did they do? They have made their propaganda, hoping in some way that in the end there will be some vote. This is an irresponsible attitude. I see and feel, however, also opposition personalities, like President Berlusconi, that it seems to me frankly they are trying to bring positive contributions and, like him, others of the League, of Brothers of Italy, because it is a transversal sentiment. Mr President, I believe that it is time to set up a permanent consultation table between the majority and the opposition, overcoming the resistance that you will inevitably find in the majority and the opposition. When you want to go to the streets... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I think we must make a great effort. Once in a while, when children were fighting, it was said that those who had the most intelligence had to use it. It is a problem, however, not only of intelligence, but also of responsibility. Those who have more institutional responsibilities must do even more to ensure that certain conditions are fulfilled, because they will also be judged for this. This is not a formal consultation. I have seen that there is a great deal of inattention on this point, because even today in this debate the element of the relationship between majority and opposition in the... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Those of the opposition must be locked in a room to involve them absolutely, because this is an element of fundamental importance... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u27	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u28	Mr President, I am pleased that in the face of President Casini's appeal, which I share, there has been a round of applause of opposition. Of course we expect an attitude consistent with the applause made in this House for the request for dialogue between the majority and the opposition, which concerns the President-in-Office of the Council, who is leading this country and who will then have to take up this appeal. Therefore, the hope is that the applause will follow the facts. Mr President, the problem is that we have heard something else in this sitting. With the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that we are discussing tonight we have made a choice that I believe is responsible and that has held together two needs: the need to listen to the Italian citizens to whom we had indicated a way and a possibility when we interrupted the lockdown and the need to keep the country in health security. I believe that all of us in the hours when the Government was preparing to make known the text of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers have been urged by the Italians who asked us for the most varied things, depending on the category of belonging. All of us have raised concerns about the many who have invested in a re-opening of the country. The message that struck me most was that of Doriana, a young refresher, who told me: you had explained to us that we had to live with the virus, that we had to invest economic resources to equip our restaurants and our facilities for the coexistence with the virus; I spend every two weeks 70 euros for every employee for the swabs - he has 20 employees - and I do not raise anyone from the table of my restaurant without wearing the mask and now you explain why you have to make a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that restricts my activity? President, I thank you and the government for not letting go of the voices of Doriana and the many restaurateurs, entrepreneurs and hairdressers who asked us to continue on a path that we said was the right one and, that is, the coexistence with the virus until the discovery of the vaccine. On this we have to attest, without disbandments, always reading the data. When I read about the hypothesis of other decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and other weekends like those we have spent, I tremble a little. We said we have to follow this path, and then let's do it. We have a duty to maintain a firm position even with respect to certain positions. The positioning of the opposition, for example, changes depending on the position of the government: if we had taken a position for a clearer closure of the country, they would have intervened saying that more had to be reopened; if we take a position to reopen, they say that we have to close. I believe that as a government we cannot afford to banish as they constantly do. Mr President, I am also of this opinion with regard to economic positions. I am happy and thank you and this Government and, in this regard, I stress the role that Italy Viva has played on this passage: we did well not to send the debitorial records, as we should have done. We were right not to raise taxes on plastic and sugar. Imagine the combined arrangement of other closures, increased fees and sending of the debitory folders. It would have been blazing for our country; we would have picked it up with a teaspoon, our country. I therefore thank you for the choice you have made to continue along this path. Mr President, we promised that we would no longer close schools. Let us not go as far as this is concerned, as we did in Campania. I imagine all the teachers and school leaders who have invested all the hours of this summer in organizing the spaces in the schools, have invested in the relationship with their pupils explaining that it would be hard but that we would have done it, that they would no longer have the countermate next door and could no longer stand up without the masks. We explained that this road was going on and we did it together. If we had decided to close after the opening, we would have sent a signal of frustration first to those teachers, to those who invested in the reopening and believed in us when we said that the school will no longer close, having been the first to close when the lockdown in this country began. Before any new straits, Mr President, we, as democratic institutions as a whole, must fulfil our duty to the full. I said earlier that the opposition stands according to what the government says. It is also a little ridiculous to read the newspapers every morning and see the right-wing newspapers saying that the central government is wrong about everything, and the left-wing newspapers that say that it is the regions that are wrong about everything: as if we were going to evaluate the work of democratic institutions according to political membership. A country that behaves this way is not a normal country. We must carry out our task as public institutions and we must try to unload as little problems as possible on the Italians, who have shown that they have listened to us in these months: despite various Millers and demonstrations of the no-masks, they have followed the direction that the Government and the Governments have given them as a whole. Therefore, before we intervene on new straits, I believe that we must take all the steps we can take. It is wrong to use phrases such as "we are at war" or to use terms such as "fire cover." These are terms which, in my opinion, are not appropriate in relation to an emergency which must be managed with the necessary determination, but which cannot be transformed into terror. The dictatorship is based on terror; responsible democracy is based on awareness and collaboration. It is on this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we must act and I believe that we are acting. I have heard a message about doing everything in our responsibilities. Mrs Miranda da Pescara wrote to me saying that she is almost 80 years old, that she went to her doctor to do the flu vaccine and the doctor told her that she had finished her forty doses, having started with cancer patients and having to continue in order of seniority until the eighty-four years old. The lady, therefore, being 80 years old, wonders when it will be up to her because she is afraid. When things like this happen, finding a solution is not a matter that concerns the right or the left, the majority or the opposition, but all of us. As Senator Casini said, we should use these opportunities to identify the roads, rather than to denounce and say "I would have done better." This Parliament is full of 'Mandrake', people who, if they had been in its place, Mr President-in-Office, or instead of its ministers, would have solved everything. We have never faced such emergencies, so wandering is human. The problem is to act to find solutions. Now, as soon as I say the word MES I also feel a sense of discouragement, but we are not passionate about that instrument there "so much for"; we are passionate about the theme of finding resources that, at low cost for our country, can be addressed immediately for the things I said: vaccines, swabs. The virus travels four times faster than the swabs we can make in Italy. Do you need tampons or not? And if they're not there, is it because economic resources are lacking or something? And if we lack economic resources and Europe makes those available to us, why should we not use them? Mr President, it would be a stigma if we did not use them knowing that they cost us less; if we use them knowing that we save as a nation, we absolutely must be satisfied with an action that we have taken and no one in Europe can ever punish us because we have used the instrument that cost less. It's like a family goes to multiple banking institutions to get a mortgage and then... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] We find a solution that is not ideological, but the right one for all of us. We propose the ESM, but who is opposed tell us why and explain to us what is the most convenient alternative route. There is no ideology; there is simply pragmatism. Mr President, I shall end by saying to you that we must make these choices, knowing, however, that we must trust Europe. I think it is wrong to convey the message that we do not use the ESM because we are afraid that at some point Europe will tighten the noose of the Stability Pact. In fact, we have had Europe at our side and we have no reason to doubt it. We must have confidence in Europe, also because, if they wanted to tighten a noose, they could do so with the resources of the recovery fund and the Sure: even those are loans on which they can act to change an attitude towards our country. Nevertheless, it has shown great seriousness so far, because Europe is also us, and we too have brought in this idea of responsibility and belief in a European policy that must keep all countries together and leave no one behind. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us choose the best route and take action on all areas of health, as I have said, but also on public transport, and let us put the municipalities in a position to run the rankings for city officials and to employ the girls and boys who receive citizenship income in something useful. Since they receive income, they too will be satisfied if they can provide civic services for the community. There is a need in schools to measure temperatures for children and teachers and also in public offices; let's use them as best we can. I believe that if we make these pragmatic choices and decide, as we have done so far, to invest first in Italians, we will perform a good service... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u29	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u30	Mr President-in-Office, thank you for your information. I have a little difficulty in this debate because it seems to me that it may not be useful. I do not want to argue, but try to express some of my views, hoping that they can be seen as an attempt to contribute, as perhaps it should be in a debate in this House. The situation is very critical all over the world and especially in Europe - Senator Casini said - there is no Nembo Kid and there is no one who has solved the problem. We are faced with weaknesses and weaknesses that I believe we must look at with a sense of truth and responsibility. Then, perhaps, this could be the way to try to build a confrontation with the opposition. A comparison that would be possible if the latter decided to abandon a political position - nothing was done, nothing was done, no one saw anything, not even a euro - and absolutely useless and unfounded rhetoric. Objectively, colleagues, you also know that it is unfounded to say that nothing has been done. On the contrary, by trying, one should look at problems for what they are. So, President, I am absolutely convinced that the decision taken by the Government to do everything to avoid total lockdown is fair, correct and responsible. Attention, though. There is a need for consistent choices on this point. Meanwhile, according to everyone, this second wave - but it has always happened with the Covid - was completely predictable and announced. Well, do you want me to remind you of the statements made a few weeks ago? I don't, for God's sake, have them here. I'm not doing this for the love of my country, but, look out! I would like to say to those who "become learned" the next day: "Guys, it's too easy! Elementary, Watson! [[Applause]] But that's okay, I have committed myself not to polemics, but to say rather what I think is indispensable, what, in my opinion, we still have to work on. First point: institutional cooperation, we have been saying this for a long time. We affirm a principle: the responsibility is collective, it is of the Republic, not of the State or of the Regions or of the Municipalities; it is of the Republic. There is no one here who saves himself by condemning someone else, and that is what, President, is foretold today. Welcome, let's accelerate. We need protocols, we need installations and indications so that a mayor knows what to do when there are particular situations, so that there is not - as you rightly said - a country, in the face of the same, identical situations, with leopard stains or even in opposite conditions. This requires a political effort - when it says dialogue between majority opposition - and I do not just say it here: a political effort because the Regions and the Municipalities are governed by political forces that are here both to the majority and to the opposition. We must, then, build a synthesis of responsibility; the principle of loyal cooperation must be built up, shared. I would no longer like to see mayors saying they were surprised because they were not informed, just as I would not want the idea to pass on that we must pass on the mat. Here the cerino is not there; it is a torch and concerns all of us, even the opposition. The opposition will not be saved behind a "I" was not there. No, we were all there. This is the first point and requires shared responsibility, a qualitative leap. Secondly, there is a need for transparency and truth; we understand what happens on swabs; we understand why and where the problems are compared to the times of intensive therapies. Let us clarify these problems, also because, when we have solved the main point, relating to real institutional collaboration, if in a reality a problem is tackled, we intervene in extraordinary, coherent and coordinated forms with respect to an understanding that is upstream. And again: how are we placed on the front of the special units of assistance continuity (USCA) and of the territorial assistance? Mr President, I think that for the next few weeks, in addition to interventions on intensive therapies, we will also have to think about the temporary situations of USCA in the territory, because taking charge before hospitalization is crucial, in order to prevent the filling of intensive therapies. [[Applause]] If this requires, in collaboration (because there are no good and bad people), an extraordinary intervention also of the central state I believe is a correct thing. Mr President, it is indisputable that we need a qualitative leap forward on transport. I am not saying that we underestimated the problem, but there is the question of timetables. A few months ago, I intervened about the need to make time-regulating plans in cities. In fact, unlike the first phase, the problem is in large metropolitan areas. It is therefore necessary to articulate the timetables, not only for schools, but also for offices. The answer is not only distance work, but also the possibility to realize over time a articulation that will be very useful to us in the future, because the world changes. Everything's changed, and we're gonna have to change, too. Finally, on the school, Mr President, a competition is being held; I agree with those who preceded me and stressed it: at least we assure those who cannot participate in this competition, because in quarantine, that they can recover it. At least this, since it has been decided to move forward on this path. But if the school is a great asset, you will help us, colleagues of the opposition. I have heard that as a majority we have had you argue on wheelchairs: look, ladies and gentlemen, that you have been very impressed by wheelchairs. [[Applause]] In truth, I - I must say - had many questions, but he did a very serious and important job on the school. Now you have to handle it. [[Comments]] Yes, because it has opened up in these conditions, even with all the limits you want, but it has opened up and this is a value for this country; for us, for you and for Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u31	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u32	Mr President, we are still in the Senate talking about measures to deal with the Covid-19 emergency. This is not the first time and unfortunately I expect it will not be the last. We thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for this information and for your assiduous presence in Parliament. The information concerns urgent measures to manage the epidemiological emergency. I remember that because a few weeks ago I intervened precisely on the extension of the state of emergency, chosen not to cut democracy, as I have heard it say, but to have more speed and flexibility in the instruments that allow us to implement essential actions. Unfortunately, we can all see today that the emergency is not over. Before continuing with some instructions to the Government, however, colleagues, allow me too to express a sentiment, as Senator Casini did. And I appeal frankly to my colleagues in the opposition in particular, as to the debate we are having at this moment so dramatic for the country, which many of you have also remembered: families are concerned about their children, whether they can go to school or not; the shops and restaurateurs, who had planned to leave, are concerned, as are the workers; the health workers are concerned, because they are again seeing the hospitals filling up. Well, in the face of these concerns, which you also recorded, do you really think it is a way to hit your voters by saying that the government has dealt with scooters, migrant cruises or sleeping all summer long? [[Applause.]] But do you really think that this could increase consent? Look, ladies and gentlemen, frankly I do not believe this, not even with regard to the direct television which you have given, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which I imagine is motivated by the fact that we are talking about something deeply felt in the country, so it is right for the people to listen to their representatives. Those who listen to us, however, must feel that, despite the difference in roles and responsibilities, we all take the drama. When you think of making proposals, of course, you have amendments; you have all also been a majority, but you know that it is not that, if you have 2,000 amendments, they are accepted (even if they are of the majority, not just oppositions); and then you must also find cover. The reasoning that we must make together, then, is how we can go forward: everything has not been done well, we would miss it, and no one can think that they have done perfectly; however, so much has been done with seriousness and commitment. If we can improve and there are things that don't work, let's work together. The tone of some speeches, however, frankly, I would have wished it different, and I would point out that [[Applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we need to implement everything we need to avoid a complete new closure. This is the difficult, but absolutely necessary, effort to which we are called: it is our goal, I would say almost our imperative, that I hope to be able to say that it belongs to everyone (and I believe that it is). The growth of infections in the last few days, really galloping, and patients entering the hospital make us all aware that we need a shot and a collective responsibility. The choices must understandably follow the course of the contagion, but we also ask ourselves how to prevent this trend, because limiting ourselves to following it risks getting us late. In the interlocutions that have taken place in these days, about which some colleagues have spoken, and in particular Senator Errani, I was concerned about the moment of friction with the mayors, who fortunately then re-composed. At this moment, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is as important as never to act with loyal and effective cooperation between the Government, the Regions and all local self-governments. A face of the State towards all the citizens: this they expect today, while the divisions we have at the head of the administrative competences. And if it is certain that the measures commensurate with the greater problematicity of some territories are one of the instruments that allow us not to arrive at the generalised closures that we all want to avoid, we cannot help but bear in mind that we also need a national direction. I would like to highlight three areas that need the utmost attention, which many colleagues have touched on. The first is school: we cannot afford a new total closure, neither for our economy, nor for school and university; the educational poverty that we risk with new and prolonged closures for our girls and our boys must be at the heart of our concerns. I heard him in his words, which comforts me, because he makes me feel a unity of intent on the point. We take all the necessary precautionary measures, but let us not close schools again. The second is transport: I have seen the data provided by the Ministry of Transport, which would reassure on the risk of infection on the means of transport and the safety protocols adopted, but, like everyone else, I have also seen many very crowded public transport. There is a great deal of concern about this, so we invite the government - but it is something that you have also said - to proceed to make this work in agreement with the regions and municipalities. I remember, moreover, that in the decree I throw again of the special funds for the transport to Regions and Municipalities had been allocated, therefore I am not looking for some responsibilities. As for health, he told us about the very important work that has been done, about the number of masks that are produced and distributed today, about sanitisation, about the purchase and distribution of breathing, which is very important, but we know that the breathing apparatus is necessary, but not sufficient, because, because they fulfil their role, they need adequate structures. It is therefore necessary to speed up the processes, where they have not yet been prepared, in order to have the appropriate premises. We also need medical personnel. He reminded us today that 34,000 recruitments have been made, an important fact. Well, we think that it is not enough, we think that in order to continue to manage this emergency, but at the same time not leave the patients who need other care (because we must keep in mind that in addition to Covid there are other pathologies that need to be cured) we need a lot to strengthen the health care staff. I am talking about this need today and I am not talking about the ESM, which many Members have already mentioned. I am fundamentally convinced that if we get him out of the ideological debate and look at what the country really needs (this we should make in Parliament) an agreement on the real needs that health has - and I think of course that the ESM serves - we will find it. I conclude by recalling that yesterday the Quirinale was given honors for citizens who have distinguished themselves particularly in the Covid emergency, stories of doctors, researchers, workers, such as a supermarket clerk, volunteers, normal people who have become heroes because they have deeply felt collective responsibility. I am thinking of the words spoken by the President of the Republic, when he said that each institution must not stand up for its own sphere of competence, but, on the contrary, must seek cooperation, coordination and a positive link, because only the choir of our institutions and their activities can lead us to overcome these difficulties. The examples of those citizens turn to us, therefore, although I am a little disappointed in some aspects of this debate, I think we need to find a way out, Mr President-in-Office, for Government, majority and opposition to work together on the fundamental objective of keeping this country united and strong and to get it out of the crisis by identifying innovative instruments. This is what is expected of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u33	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u34	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not easy to take the floor after these speeches, which are more inspiring to a reasoning which has a cahier de doléance, to a notebook of so many complaints. It is inevitable, Mr President-in-Office of the Council... I expect you to pay a little attention. I was saying that no one is hiding behind a finger: the pandemic has dimensions and war numbers. I am sorry that some of the majority did not also collect the positive aspects that came in these seven months from the opposition, because they were all constructive stimuli. We voted, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, twice without sitting at a table, without knowing how that money and the opposition were going to be spent - at this point I am also speaking on a personal basis, but I think I can do so on behalf of others too - he cheered for you when you went to Brussels to defend the interests of the country, when you managed to change paradigms in Europe and when you returned to Italy, let me remind you that I was one of the first to congratulate you. Here there is no ideological prejudice or controversy. We come from a culture that is to respect institutions, even more in pandemic moments or war. President-in-Office of the Council, why not convene a table with the opposition? Pick up the invitation of some colleagues, starting with President Casini, get out, get the parties out of the enclosures, have the courage to do so. You have the greatest responsibility for opening a dialogue, which does not mean national unity, it does not mean iniqucio, but it simply means listening to the other part of the country represented in this House. You have done well some meetings with some productive realities, trade unions, but do you think it is normal that you do not speak with representatives directly elected by the people? That is a question to which you, Mr President, must answer today. Today we are in the budgetary session: we are opening a serious debate. I don't want to tell the things we could have done better, but it's inevitable that something didn't work out, no matter how justifiable it is. Can we help entrepreneurs who have had great difficulties in this first experience? Continue to lengthen the bureaucratic procedure as you say it should be streamlined. If we say that we need to find other tools, we don't do it because we want to make controversy, but to help the government maybe find better tools. Helping public-private collaboration in ways that can be identified together does not mean going against each other. Enhance not only the tones, but also the proposals. Today we do not only bring the cry of pain of the restaurateurs, of the exhibitors of the bars, of those who work in the swimming pool sector, of those who work in the wedding sector and of all the induced; today we want to offer a concrete proposal, but you must help us to carry it out in a constructive dialogue. Otherwise each of us plays our part in this comedy of the parties. So, President-in-Office of the Council, I am telling you quite frankly: I hope for the good of the country that there is no lockdown. We have never exploited anything, such as those who have said and denounced that individual freedoms are reduced. The right to health prevails, so we have never used it. Today there is no lockdown, at least mobility, but there is a psychological lockdown: many of our fellow citizens, unlike the first round of the pandemic, today are afraid and are losing hope. So we, all together, should try to give an answer to this despair. It is what is lacking today, because each of us must speak to his electorate. I do not speak to my electorate, but I would like to speak to those citizens who are afraid today and there are many, President, compared to those of seven months ago, because they fear that unfortunately they will not get out of this damn tunnel. We're gonna get out of this. It is up to you - I repeat, Mr President - to find the best way and instrument. I am not interested in the speech of the campaign and the press conference, because it is part of the activity of a government leader who must reassure the country, but, Mr President-in-Office, he cannot continue to do so in this way, without involving the opposition. In the history of this Republic our country was great especially when we were able to find a convergence: after the Second World War, I think about the period of terrorism and I think about when we were under attack from the financial markets. President Monti was there a moment ago; in 2012 75% of Parliament - he recalled last time - approved very tough measures on the country's skin. So the challenge we all face is to change paradigm, as I hear it, because it is also a challenge for the opposition. What is the challenge ahead of us? Continue with a controversial tone or start telling the country that we too want to help with our proposals? But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have the greatest responsibility, that of being able to accept our proposals. We have given him signals: we have voted for two budgetary deviations that will affect future generations. Allow me one last chapter, the one on Europe: in the pandemic, however unfortunate and however much it has affected the quality of life of all, as some colleagues have said well, because it has changed our lives and unfortunately will change our lives, Europe is finally proving to be that people of solidarity and above all that institution of solidarity able to give its answers. So take advantage of this; take advantage of the fact that Europe for the first time has changed its paradigm, as they say. Take advantage of this, because this narration also serves the country not to get out of the tunnel, but to be able to build a hope, knowing that besides Italy there is Europe that is helping us. If we don't make an effort, all of us, we risk continuing to play a part in a comedy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Siri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, we are talking today about Covid, so I am starting from the trade-union monitoring activity that, as you know, we as parliamentarians can carry out on the territories, with particular reference, in this case, to the hospital facilities where we find the following situation: an exponential increase in tampons compared to those carried out last spring, in which the peak of positives was 27 percent on a number of about 10,000. Today the swabs have exceeded 160,000 daily and the incidence of positiveness to the Sars-Cov-2 virus varies between 1.7 percent and 4.5 percent recorded this week. There is, therefore, a drastic reduction in the positives as a percentage compared to last spring's swabs. What do you mean, "positive" on the tampon? The positive to the swab is not a sick person and is not an anointing. This is what doctors, clinicians and virologists of the main Italian hospitals say, who may not be part of your scientific and technical committee but are daily in the wards of hospitals to cure the sick. In summary, out of 160,000 swabs, there are between 8,000 and 10,000 positives, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, 70% of which are completely asymptomatic and 25% are paucisintomatics, so they have very slight symptoms. It can therefore be established that 95% of these positives do not in any way affect the national health system. There are symptoms that require care at the hospital about 560 people. Of these, only 10 percent require assistance in intensive care or subtensive care. So we are talking about an incidence of 0.5% of the positives. With regard to intensive therapies there is currently an employment of about 860 units on the potential number of about 9,000 beds. Nobody tells us if they have any other related pathologies. Among other things, I remind you that on the management of hospitals in general, the Lega Group on July 7 had asked for clarification on the possible management of a second wave, just to understand how to possibly calibrate beds in intensive care. There is to say, however, that for almost a year, or at least since Covid is there, it seems that in the hospital there are only Covid patients; all the rest of the diseases seem to have disappeared. You can go to the ICU for a lot of other reasons. This is the aseptic picture of the data (you have the data published by the Ministry of Health) without controversy and without exploitation. The press which carry out their work with ethical correctness, moreover, reports this data; in other cases, unfortunately, Mr President, we are witnessing a narrative insistence which, by forcing the titles of communication, contributes to the spread of a heavy state of distress in the population. It is from yesterday the statement of the Institute of behavioural psychology that has emphasized how this continuous state of prostration, due to the spread of catastrophic news, produces harmful effects, even permanent, on the individual psychic plane. Moreover, in our country the state of mind was already proved by a long season of economic stagnation, which naturally generates concerns and uncertainties for the future of work, on the planning and the purposes of existence, which are the very reason of life; all this has led in these years 12 million of our fellow citizens to make use of psychopharmaceuticals, in particular benzodiazepines. At a stage like this, I think we need sensitivity and attention in the communication, in order to avoid serious subsidiary repercussions in relation to the spread of Covid. By the Government and the highest institutions of the Republic, at a time like this one would expect to be reassured and reassured, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, while indicating respect for the minimum prophylaxis that prevents the spread of the virus; possible sensible prophylaxis, not as the obligation of the mask in open spaces where it does not persist assemblage: at midnight and a half in a square of the empty Pantheon, six people who up to a minute before were seated at the table and got up and maybe at that moment they do not have the mask cannot be fined, he understands that it is a non-sense. Also, there is a continuous hammering of distressing news. Cut it out with this whole "free" thing in the summer, so we're gonna pay for it now. The summer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has long ended and you know that the incubation time of the virus is fourteen days and not two months, so those who have enjoyed a little holiday this summer have absolutely nothing to do with the situation that is taking place today. You seek the cooperation of the opposition, but come to Parliament when you have already made the decisions; you come and tell us the decisions already taken. [[Applause]] Allow me to say that you have produced a somewhat schizophrenic measure, which demonstrates your inability to deal with the situation with logic, lucidity and rationality. With this decree you have established that if a person is sitting at the table does not take the virus but if he is standing yes; you have established that in six at the table the virus is not dangerous but in seven it is lethal; you have also established a time of infection of the virus that steals the scene from the famous carriage of Cinderella, which at midnight turns into pumpkin: so also the virus before midnight is not contagious but after midnight it is. Don't sell alcohol because at 6:00 p.m. the virus lurks in wine. If a child in school is positive the whole class is in quarantine, but the parents of the child, who are in contact with him, always go quietly to work; meanwhile it seems that on trains, subways and buses more and more crowded the virus does not circulate. It is useless that I tell you the economic repercussions that this measure generates on the productive categories: think only of the chain of conferences and congresses, which also involves the hotels that were trying to pull up after months of closure and the loss of 80% of the turnover: 650.000 people will be without income, the majority of them work in VAT, so there is no one who guarantees them the salary; on the contrary, I take advantage of the fact of talking about VAT matches to thank the Government for having listened to our request to suspend the sending of the folders to 9 million Italians, but we know that this alone cannot be enough. [[Applause]] When I come to the conclusion, I would like to turn briefly to the proposals, Mr President. On May 26, the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) blocked the home care protocol that, from March 17 to May 26, thanks to the administration of Plaquenyl (hydroxychloroquine), had drastically reduced the hospital curve. I therefore ask you, given the forecast of an increase in hospitalizations in the coming weeks, if you intend to restore the home care protocol as requested by many hospital clinicians. Today, the subject with symptoms is only allowed to administer paracetamol, until there is such a saturation of oxygen that it requires hospitalization. All of this wasn't until there was a cure with Plaquenil. It is evident that Plaquenil succeeds in being effective, as doctors and clinicians say, if administered immediately, when mild symptoms occur; after that, of course, it is not effective. It is as if you, President Count, cut yourself and for three weeks you do not put on the wound even a little oxygenated water: after three weeks, oxygenated water naturally does nothing.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u37	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u38	Syringes (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm finishing, Mr. President. So you basically interrupted a protocol that could solve the problem of crowding and hospital stress. I am convinced that if the home protocol were restored, we could avoid hospital stress and return quickly to normality, with the withdrawal of all restrictive measures, a return to normality that the country urgently needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u39	Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u40	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, even today - and this is the tenth time you have been reporting to Parliament since this unfortunate emergency broke out - we have seen opposition to the same script, to the usual gangherate criticism that we are unfortunately witnessing, even with some dismay, from March to today. It is always the same equipment, without even the creative attempt to innovate it in some way. Even today we have to hear the history of wheelchairs, which even children can be a panzana. And yet, so much so. You see, President Conte, I have my own theory of why oppositions are reacting in this way and also ineffective, as Mrs Pinotti pointed out before me. It is not often that we find ourselves living in a historical period like the one we are currently in. Who is accustomed to observe a little 'how history takes place, the history of human things, will know that there are periods when nothing seems to happen; on the surface it seems that nothing is actually happening, but often under many things it boils, movements, innovations, found. It's a bit like a dormant volcano: then an event is enough to make everything that boils under the air. This triggering event of course was the Covid. We are now in a condition that could be called a crisis. The crisis, however, etymologically, from the Greek, means "chosen." With Covid we were faced with things we already knew. Did we not know, for example, that the environment would surely deserve better attention and that climate change required attention? Did we not know that the consumption of resources at that rate was no longer sustainable and that a green turning point was needed? Did we not know that the sustainability of our lifestyle, as conceived, was no longer possible? Did we not know the many and too many inequalities in our society, social, cultural, gender, economic inequalities? How many times have we talked about Europe? How many times have we said that Europe looked more like a teacher with a blue pen than a cozy nurse? All this we knew before the Covid, yet it took Covid to put us in front of a choice, a choice that you, President Conte, have been able to make. You've made a leap in history. As I said, there are times when nothing seems to happen and then there is a disruptive event. At that point, either you succumb or you jump. She had the courage to make that leap and put in the field every possible means so that Italy could face this moment of crisis and transform it into καιρός, into opportunities, and that is what oppositions cannot forgive them. This is what the detractors cannot forgive: the fact that it was you, with this majority, with the support of the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause]] , to change everything. You see, in fact, while under the skies of Legnano there are dark clouds of arrests, warnings of guarantee, interceptions, abusive maneuvers and appointments decided at the bar, on the much larger European skies instead there are new horizons, so wide that we would never have thought to be able to see. Yesterday in fact the first historic issue of the ten-year bonds of the Sure program was issued, which reached 233 billion euros of support in seventy-five minutes; of the 81 billion euros total to Italy will go 27 and will already be available from 2021, maybe even before. [[Applause.]] This is just a part of the power of resources that has been deployed by the government you led and supported by this majority. This means that there is already a track, that the road is already tracked, all the more so pending the same mechanism that will serve to collect the 750 billion euros of the Next Generation EU plan. It is a road that is mainly due to the action of this Government, since in the very first months of the pandemic Italy has been able to make, thanks to you, President Conte, leader of a group of eight other countries precisely to ask Europe for the resources to meet this challenge, which have been collected through the issuance of common debt securities, an absolute novelty in the European Union panorama. Here then is the change of perspective of a united and cohesive Europe that gives quick answers and if today Europe is no longer the teacher with the blue pen, but has become the welcoming nurse that we have hoped for in many, this is mainly due to the action of this Government and the constant stimulus given by the Movimento 5 Stars. But there is, of course, more, there is a budgetary manoeuvre that is coming to Parliament, in which there is an additional EUR 40 billion, with a budget expansion of EUR 23 billion. The maneuver, very briefly, provides €4 billion more for health. The Covid has shown plastically the importance of a public health and since the 5 Star Movement is to the Government 11 billion euros have been allocated more for it. The budget maneuver also provides for EUR 5 billion for the Integration Fund, the postponement of the accounts; first they ask us to postpone, one makes the postponement and it is never enough. We are told that it is not enough and it is fine, but there is more: there is EUR 4 billion for the sectors most affected, such as tourism and catering, as the opposition loudly asked for. We do it and nothing, it's still not okay. Then there is the introduction of the single allowance for 12 million households, the extension of the cut-off of the tax wedge, the extension of the superbonus to 110%, a measure designed and wanted by the 5 Star Movement to feed the virtuous building and which has in the meantime also become a model for the European Union. [[Applause.]] And again, the 100% decontribution for the recruitment of under 21, therefore of young people, the stabilization of the decontributions to 30% for the enterprises of the Mezzogiorno. And then there's the health issue. As I said before, the issue of public health is a good to defend in which the Movimento 5 Stars has always believed. Public health has proved to be absolutely central in combating the epidemic. I want to conclude, Mr President, by saying the impression that I received from reading the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers: it breathes the effort to find that subtle balance of having to safeguard public health and, at the same time, defend the productive and economic fabric of this country, preserving it from the further shock that it had to suffer because of the pandemic. I saw our attention in having to bring the whole universe of our society back into a text that could regulate every aspect of it and, therefore, really a great effort, love for our country and a great sense of dignity in interpreting its role. So, Mr Conte, on behalf of my Group, I would like to thank you and ask you to continue with this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u41	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u44	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Campania we reopen schools safely. The last decisions of our Region on the subject of school with the suspension of attendance and the resumption in almost all cases of distance teaching leave us very perplexed, almost stunned. The decision seemed to the most a thunderbolt to heaven serene. The measures adopted by the Governor of Campania go in the opposite direction to the political will of the Government, which has reaffirmed the strategic importance of maintaining the opening of schools for all the negative aspects that their closure entails in terms of family organization, work and social, without considering the psychological aspect and the consequent damage to children and children who cannot share with companions or relate directly with teachers. The opening of schools in safety must be a priority for everyone (school staff, teachers, pupils and for our organisation as a community). Why do Campanian children have to be discriminated against in relation to the rest of Italy? President Conte, in the latest press conferences and today, has also reiterated this concept. He suggested that schools should be able to adopt a more flexible timetable with staggered entrances and exits, a timetable for lessons over a longer period of time, not even partially excluding afternoon hours, thus extending the same opening and closing hours as schools. All this is obviously done in order to reduce as much as possible assemblies and facilitate the correct outflow and use of means of transport. We cannot and must not mask the shortcomings, the lack of planning in the times and in the appropriate ways, the absence of an efficient and controlled public transport plan capable of avoiding images, which are before everyone's eyes, crowds and the lack of distance on buses, trains and metropolitans, which, in my opinion, constitute a real risk of possible infections. The measures taken to close the school are intended only to frighten citizens, increase anxieties, fears and upset the balance and family organization. I believe that these measures can only serve to justify the lack of management and failure of our local and hospital health, both in terms of personnel and structures, with a lack of adaptation of the Covid intensive care posts, as set out in the programme. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] All we have to do is apply and comply with the established protocols. We must try as much as possible to avoid engaging children at home in a difficult distance teaching, with all the problems related to its complex structuring and participation. These same guys are then found in the pizzerias, shopping malls or around the streets of our cities and, as often happens, without mask and without observing the security distances. These are demagogic choices that most people have understood, however, calling loudly for the rapid reopening of schools. These Diktats, as mentioned above, have only one objective: to hide the lack of proper planning and to divert public attention from the real inefficiencies of our regional health care, unable to provide adequate answers to the particular pandemic moment. The school, and I conclude, President, must be considered the second home of our children, in which they can also grow psychologically, form and temper themselves, in a continuous interface with the family, preparing themselves properly to become the men of tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u47	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, three days ago, my colleague, Senator Primo Di Nicola, suffered a vile aggression, an attempt at intimidation. On his birthday, Senator Di Nicola, vice president of the RAI Supervisory Commission, was seen subtracting the computer and some working documents. If those who have made this gesture listen to me, I have a message for them: perhaps they do not know Primo as I know him, for I have got to know him, but certainly the Senator Di Nicola does not get intimidated by these gestures [[Applause]] , and will do his work even better and more effectively. Anyway, who touches Senator Di Nicola touches all the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-267.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 27 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.16 p.m.)
