ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1883. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and a question for a preliminary ruling was rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u5	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, rapporteurs and fellow senators, I will begin this speech on the conversion of the so-called simplification decree by reading what the Treccani refers to as the definition of the term: "to make it simple or simpler," to make it more agile and functional, to facilitate, to facilitate, to lighten". Examples include: "Simplifying an industrial process; simplifying the accounting of a company; simplifying the administration of the State" and this is what I will focus on. Improving the lives of our fellow citizens, making their lives easier and easier is the main function of our parliamentary role. Of course, there is the activity to protect our territory; of course, there are the great themes addressed by the different political lines of the various parties but, if we are here on these scenes, it is precisely to enact laws such as this, and that is why, with respect for our employer - the electoral citizen - as a group of Senators of the League we have made the greatest effort to integrate and improve a text that - it is correct to recognize it - had more than one positive and acceptable cue. A constructive work has been carried out in the Commission, started with more than 100 hearings and concluded with a close comparison over the last ten days to examine the almost three thousand amendments tabled. Thanks also to the contribution of the League and to our 37 amendments adopted, I can say that the text that came out is certainly better than what the majority would have done alone in so many of the issues dealt with. [[Applause]] The only serious exception is Article 10, the one on building standards, which has been greatly aggravated by an amendment by the Free and Equal Group which has introduced elements of great complication that we do not share and denounce loudly. There has been - as I said - an intense confrontation, sometimes even harsh, with themes supported with passion, but always well argued, and this has certainly been, in a historical-political phase in which it is easy to point out democratic institutions, a useful element to give back dignity to the role of Parliament, its centrality and the rebalancing of powers between executive and legislative. This is vital because, if we turn this House into a place where only decisions taken elsewhere are ratified, we do not serve the country, rather we send it adrift. [[Applause]] The Senators of the League, whose speech will follow my own, will explain in detail the individual themes: public works, justice, transport, local authorities, digitalization and innovation, environment and energy. Allow me, however, to list some of the amendments proposed and approved by the League: first perhaps the most important one, namely the extension until 31 December 2021 of the simplified regime for contracts; and then the extension also to the Center-North of the country of the norm, previewed so far only for the South, that it distributes grants and soft loans for the young farmers; the unblocking of the examiners enabled to dispose of the huge backwardness of the demands of licenses; the acceleration for the modernization of the sports stadiums; the delay to the end of the emergency state of the conversion to digital for the small municipalities now in great shortage of staff; the increase of the audience obliged to provide web services accessible to the various disabilities; the bureaucratic simplifications for the academic world; the extension of the law Tremonti ambiente; norms to guarantee the efficiency and the timing of the services addressed to the public that must operate also in regime of smart working. However, it is also right to remember what is lacking in the provision. Vouchers are missing for agricultural and tourism workers. There is a lack of greater attention to the world of disabled people, the language of signs for deaf people and help to those who unfortunately have to move with wheelchairs [[Applause]] There are no zero-kilometer contracts to support the economy of the territories and reduce the burden on the environment. There is no solution to the problem of the shortage of technical staff and municipal secretaries in local authorities. There is no cancellation of the now useless model F23. There is a lack of concrete measures for development and research to promote the circular economy. There is no real simplification of environmental impact assessments, since only the usual good intentions are stated, but there are no concrete and feasible impacts. Finally, there is no mother of all simplifications, i.e. tax cuts. [[Applause]] With 100 billion committed to the Covid emergency, you could find the 15 billion needed to implement the flat tax and give structural breath to the portfolio of millions of people in difficulty. Then let me have an impact on a proposal of the Movimento 5 Stars that has entered the text and that we would never have expected to see: the abolition until all 2023 of the procedure of public debate prior to the realization of public works of social importance and with environmental impact. So all socio-environmental associationism is silenced more or less spontaneously. There are no more citizens spokesperson, there are no more cans of tuna to open; therefore there is no longer the slogan "one" worth one, which has been replaced by: "don't disturb the maneuverer". [[Applause.]] The Movimento 5 Stars has chosen to commit suicide, but perhaps, in the face of a long agony, it did well. I would like to conclude by thanking the Presidents of the Commission, Senators Parrini and Coltorti, for their proper management; the rapporteurs, Senators Sudano and Garruti, who are always available; the various members of the Government who succeeded each other during their work; the Ministers D'Incà and Pisano and the Deputy Minister Margiotta, who is here and whom I personally thank, as well as the Under-Secretarys Malpezzi and Castaldi, as well as all the senators of majority and opposition with whom we have in fact lived day and night in this Chamber. I conclude by stressing that, as a League, we have been able to make an effective contribution to the country also by the opposition and we will do even better as soon as we return to the government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u6	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u7	Colleagues at the entrance of the House, please, either leave the Chamber or sit in your seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u8	Mr President, my speech will essentially focus on two articles of the Decree-Law under consideration, on which the general discussion in the context of the conversion began. These are Articles 21 and 23, which aim to create a sort of quasi-immunity micro-system - on the one hand - by changing the erarial responsibility and - on the other hand - by putting a heavy hand in Article 323 of the Criminal Code for ex officio abuse. As far as erarial responsibility is concerned, we have been very clear as Forza Italia: from the beginning we have said that we have introduced a shared principle, namely the fact that, at the moment when we talk about dolo, the latter has only one notion, voluntaryness, not only of conduct but also of the harmful or dangerous event that is so. Anyone who deals with criminal law knows that, as Article 43 of the Criminal Code is very clear. If that intention is to be achieved, it must be maintained and not stopped from a time point of view at 31 July 2021. Without prejudice to the fact that, when we go to amend Article 1, which regulates the responsibility of those who are subject to erorial responsibility (i.e. public officials), and introduce a shared concept, which must be a general principle of ordering, we do not want this to be limited in time, also because it will create unmistakable interpretative problems. By the way, it seems to me that the same accounting judges have highlighted it extensively these days. And it remains firm - an absolutely acceptable principle - the fact that the public prosecutor must provide proof of the voluntary nature of the event, that is - in this case - of the event that causes the erorial responsibility. Turning to the other aspect, Article 23 rewrites, by changing conduct, Article 323 of the Criminal Code in the matter of ex officio abuse. It introduces, first of all, singular changes, removing the traditional syntagma of Article 323. We are at the third amendment of Article 323 of the Criminal Code, which was conceived almost ninety years ago in the Rocco Code as a rule of closure and subsidiary value. This amendment would, as far as I can say in the short time available to me, have adverse effects for the purposes for which it was provided for by the rule. These rules were conceived and explained by the President of the Council at the press conference to present the decree-law, as rules in which it is said enough to fear public officials. It is enough to fear because that sort of defensive bureaucracy, which - on the one hand - is a consequence of the spectre of erarian responsibility, as the modification of the penal code can create, would fail with the new formulation of the norm. Meanwhile, here we introduce an absolutely unique concept. The reference to secondary regulatory sources is removed from Article 323. As we know, the article provided that it is criminal liability for the violation of a rule of law or regulation. Here the regulation disappears and, therefore, the secondary legislation, which is regulatory legislation, decrees and ordinances, can be quietly violated. Therefore, any public official could, voluntarily, in order to pursue an own interest or of the next associates (however, an interest not admitted by law), violate a rule of law. This is the effect of this change and some of the majority have not realised the opposite effects of what they wanted to introduce; or, it has done so for purposes which are clearly specific, partial and not general, taking away the reference to the regulations, therefore. The other peculiar aspect is that the judge takes away the assessment of the exercise of power by the public official. And what is the exercise? It is at least a question of control from the point of view of legality and from the general and ordering point of view. It would come to be said: simul stabunt vel simul cadant. At a time when we expect the criminal court not to assess the correctness, at least at the general level, of the use of public power, we may have effects that are really contrary to the stated end. Let me give you a very simple example. One of the reasons that led the majority to think of an amendment rule is the conviction that it is necessary to take hold of the fact that in Italy there are 7,000 trials for office abuse and that only 100 of them close with a conviction. However, it is not by introducing this rule that the majority solves the problem. Not only does it not solve it, but it aggravates it. I am thinking of the so-called distraction sin, which has been removed from the system and has been debilitated, on the contrary, by office abuse, with less serious punishment. On the contrary, as a result of the rule you introduced, when you hang out in the smell of money, it is clear that any prosecutor, no longer having the closing rule that was Article 323 - that is why the code Rocco had provided for Article 323 - will begin to reopen the investigation with Article 314, with the rich prizes and cotillons of Article 4-a of the penitentiary order. I refer, that is, to the notorious rule that the Constitutional Court has already given very clear signals with some ordinances declaring non-retroactivity, because it is a rule with criminal effects and not just procedural. I would like to talk about heterogeneous ends, i.e. unintended consequences in relation to intentional acts. You thought that in this way we would solve the problem of slowness in the public administration, removing the fear that the public official - or politician - has when to assume, because it is a crime precisely that of the abuse of office, through rules whose effects could be diametrically opposed to what they wanted. I have limited my speech to this and I make a final remark. The government - particularly a political part of it - has made panpenalism its raison d'être. I am thinking of the triumphalistic tones used in the debate on the so-called scrubber. Today it seems to me instead that it seeks a way that is different and does so in a clumsy way, because it places time limits that will necessarily impose problems of interpretation of the rules, of succession of the rules, and connected to the so-called abolition of crimes. [[Applause]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, Deputy Minister Margiotta, the experience gained by all those in this country who have done business, have engaged in the administration sector, in volunteering, in the third sector, and have taken on collective responsibilities that have led them to cross the public administration - and I am also referring to those within the public administration, with what once would have been called the spirit of the good father of the family, has tried to address, manage and govern the problems, whether they are managers, officials or collaborators of the same public administration - has often been of great effort and far from the objectives, expectations, aims of the projects and the purposes that they wanted to carry out and practical feasibility, the ways and costs that they had. In part this has been physiological, because there has been an objective increase in the complexity of the situation to be managed and its decision-making processes, in some ways linked to an increased awareness of individual and collective rights and the consequent need to define in a more precise and formal way the tasks and responsibilities of the individual; for other averses, instead, linked to the awareness that some choices of the past have given us objective forcings on the environmental, urban and architectural plans and have, unfortunately, allowed paths marked by corruption or incorrect behaviors or at least excess of risks and environmental and health costs on the safety of the people who worked. Sometimes this has been possible by playing on insufficient standards and their lack of punctuality. But all this, even with all the reasons illustrated, has led to a crazy increase in bureaucracy, to evaluations that sometimes last years, to poor transparency in the decision-making processes and has resulted in social costs (democratic sometimes, because the perception of ineffectiveness of public administrations leads to a breakdown between the citizen and the public administration itself) and economic (for greater compliance, more bureaucracy, longer time in the decisions); but also costs linked, for example, to the lack of logistics. A recent study of the CGIA of Mestre has quantified in beyond 55 billion per year the cost for the enterprises for the greater bureaucracy and in beyond 40 billion annually the costs tied to an insufficient logistic net of the Country. I come from a Province - like other senators of this House - where the costs for companies linked to insufficient infrastructure have been quantified in more than 100 million per year. All this has obviously been aggravated by the Covid affair, in which we are partly still involved, but which has heavily impacted the country in recent months. The measure under consideration, in this context, also after the important integration work done in the Commission, intervenes to try to make procedures more fluid with regard to public investment, with particular attention to the areas affected by the earthquake, the activity of local authorities, the whole area of research and innovation, infrastructure, problems related to agriculture, renewable energy, environmental protection and the protection and protection of the territory. With regard to agriculture, Article 43 has made an important contribution by introducing structural innovations in the management and delivery of Community funds. Important innovations have been introduced with regard to the whole issue of controls, extending the institute of caution also to the food and feed sectors. Some additional instruments have been introduced to the theme of designations of origin to address emergency situations such as the one in which we have been living in recent months. Article 63 introduces an extraordinary programme of forest management and mountain areas and some regulatory clarifications regarding the issue of irrigation infrastructure and installations at the service of agriculture. Important measures have also been envisaged with the amendments introduced in the Commission concerning the wine sector, but environmental issues have generally been addressed. From this point of view, I believe that we have worked in a useful and important way. Unfortunately, many requests for amendments from the social and productive world have remained on the table for the attention of this House, which has not been able to refine them in time to be able to introduce them into the text. We are all aware that so many measures still need to be introduced, corrected, modified and improved. But I also believe that everyone is aware that the measure under consideration is in the right direction and certainly makes an important contribution by bringing closer the expectations of citizens and businesses to what is the instrumentation that the public administration has put in place to try to respond in good time, appropriate and functional to the expectations of citizens and businesses. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u10	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u11	Mr President, today we are debating a measure that looks a little too much like a wasted opportunity. The initial text was undoubtedly an interesting basis, albeit incomplete or inaccurate in several parts. It was an expected, urgent measure, that many sectors awaited since it invests different parts of the Italian social and economic fabric. As an opposition, we collaborated immediately, making available ourselves and our offices (to whom I sincerely congratulate for the work done). For weeks we have prepared the final phase of the analysis of the measure in the Commission, listening to hundreds of people, representatives from all over the Italian productive and social world. We have also prepared a series of improved amendments which went precisely in the direction demanded by the real world; from that real world which all too often shows that you do not know and that you keep a proper distance from your ideologies, which are a little too imaginative and weird [[Applause.]] It is no coincidence that you wanted to include a number of amendments which, instead of simplifying, go in the direction of complication, lengthening the time and tightening up the bureaucracy, pursuing your nature completely untied by practicality. This is the simplification decree, but the majority have 2,000 amendments: do you realize that you are yourself the complication of the country? [[Applause]] However, I must acknowledge that this is not always true: when it comes to facilitating something that is dear to your heart, you are in fact very good at overcoming any procedure and putting aside precisely that principle of sharing and participation, which you say should distinguish you. On the other hand, the PD rules with the 5 Stars and the 5 Stars govern with the PD: it is in fact [[Applause]] Can you explain to us what prompted you to say goodbye to transparency for great public works, going to abolish community involvement? What do you have to do in secret? So far it is clear that the TAV will be made, and also the TAP, as well as the Third Jupiter Pass, just to give three examples. It is quite obvious that Count taught you very well the game of the three cards [[Applause]] You keep asking yourself why we took away Count's trust a year ago, but the answer is clear and it's in fact: let's go at speeds and in different directions. We remove and you add; we trust the workers and you judge the private as criminals regardless; we try to facilitate those who have initiative and you only yesterday in this House had the courage to define the entrepreneurs of the "takers." You must be ashamed! [[Applause]] Fortunately, however, sometimes you have listened to us, approving, more or less consciously - that was a bit dependent on the time of night or morning - our improved amendments and that has made you look great. We are grateful to you for this, although it would be more fair to say the opposite - let us be clear - but we are sure that entrepreneurs, employees and citizens in general will be much happier. So far, in the parts where you have accepted our contribution, the glass is in fact half full. Then, however, you decided to do your own thing and the glass becomes half empty. You have upset Article 10 of the measure, going to devastate - I repeat: devastate - the possibility of stimulating urban regeneration. A simplification decree should give breath and momentum to the world of work, but you have built a cage, capable of suffocating and sinking every possibility of building recovery, placing constraints, costs and stakes, which will make it impossible to regenerate abandoned areas at reasonable prices and in acceptable times. We must make it clear that the change that LEU wanted and then voted on by PD, Movimento 5 Stars and Renzi will aggravate the crisis of a driving sector, which is already boccaggiante, such as that of construction, unless we go and build on new green areas. Bravissimi: you have obtained the exact opposite effect of what you are saying, that is to say cementification, instead of urban regeneration [[Applause]] Fortunately we at the League managed to obtain an extension of the emergency measures - as my good colleague Mr Augussori said - and the release of the contracts until 31 December 2021: a real breath of oxygen for the sector, which we hope will at this point become structural, already from the next useful measure. Much more could have been done on the environment too, but even in this case the ideologies of the leftmost parts of your colorful coalition of majority have put insurmountable vetoes and stakes. We could have solved some problems related to secondary waste or internal energy production, but it would have served a vision of the future, which you simply cannot build. Luckily here too, however - the time was now late - you have accepted some of our suggestions, which have allowed to introduce functional norms, such as incentives for photovoltaic systems on disused areas. Here again, a Government with much clearer ideas would be needed, namely a League-led Government. We then come to an area that is very close to my heart: mobility and transport. You told us that new rules could not be accepted in the measure under our scrutiny, which included a commitment to expenditure (which, by the way, is not true, because already in the basic text many articles provided for this commitment). You told us that new amendments or articles could be added with new expenditure in Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020. We have followed your demands and postponed all our proposals to the subsequent conversion into law of this measure, although indeed much could also be done for a sector such as the renewal of the fleet, if only we were to think about what should actually be encouraged. So we simply asked to solve some problems at no cost. We have asked - for example - to solve the problem of heavy-duty vehicles revisions. Here I wonder if you've ever talked to anyone who works in the sector, with transporters, with those who review civil motorizations or with those who have private workshops. If you like, I'll gladly give you some phone numbers. [[Applause]] Honestly, you're a little out of business. There are hundreds of trucks, which are traveling right now and these days, which should be reviewed every year, and whose review has expired even for two years. Therefore, the review has not been carried out for three years. This is because motorizations fail to meet the demands they receive. The problem would be simply and easily solved by allowing such reviews to be carried out outside, in private workshops. The Ministry continues, however, to oppose, saying that there would be a shortage of revenue, without being able to understand that the State would instead have three gains in terms of security, simplification and - heard, heard - revenue. It should in fact be understood that the taxes of revisions would be collected that would be disposed of from the tail and that instead they cannot be, and in addition you could also have a collection from any races that could be done for outsourcing, for the moment simply also for a fixed time. In short, think about continuing to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . Or do you think it's time to resolve the situation? I take the floor to the Government, which has committed itself to working with us to resolve the situation, even though we have been trying to resolve it for two years now. Similarly, it would be a matter of civic sense to follow up the approved agenda, which provides for the possibility of using the bike lanes by people with disabilities who need an electric motor wheelchair to move around. [[Applause.]] There aren't just scooters. Allow me, Mr President, to refer briefly to two reforms, one of which we have managed to introduce, while the other has an agenda, a commitment from the government, for the world of collectors. I am referring to the fact that I can keep the original book, when you make a transfer of ownership, and the possibility that the Government undertakes to give to rebuild the historical plates now lost. These are two innovations that have been awaited for years. In conclusion, Mr President, where we have managed to intervene, we have simplified the decree-law, but the real simplification is very close, on 20 September. We are sure that the citizens will vote and with the vote of the regional and municipal elections will simplify Parliament, sending you the clear signal to go home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, the examination of the Decree-Law on urgent measures for simplification and digital innovation, unlike what happened in the Commissions of merit, has been rather quick and not exhaustive in the Commission. The measure forgets to treat in a completed way a fundamental issue such as that of public work, which, in our opinion, is one of the cornerstones of any simplification. The pandemic must reflect and induce structural interventions on the subject of staff needs in the public perimeter, with more than half of it in smart working, however, during this period. It must also lead to decisions which from now on define a new relationship between business, citizens and public administration. At the same time, it must mark a new alarm bell on the public accounts. Each assumption leads to an increase in current expenditure and any increase in repeated expenditure in subsequent years, at the same time, marks a decrease in available investment expenditure. The resources are scarce and the debt used today to make expenses cannot be replicated in the years that follow (the end of the pandemic emergency). That is why this must be an opportunity to introduce digital speed in the public administration, defining new roles for public sectors and services. Any measure that intends to speed up the procedures of the public machine will always see Forza Italia favorable. But it cannot be assumed that we can proceed as if outside the public perimeter there were no digital world, which now only moves through applications to be used on fast networks. On the contrary, we are faced with organic plants of the nineties, which do not take into account the fact that, if public administrations have reduced turnover, many services previously rendered by public offices have been transferred to participating companies and in houses. In the meantime, the local authorities have acquired many key functions in services, such as tax collection and waste management, transport, parking, cafeteria, etc. Thus, the figure to be compared is not 3.3 million units that work directly in the public administration, because they also make public services for in-house companies that are part of the social security institutions, with which they reach 4.5 million people; that is, out of 18.1 million employees, one in four works in the public administration or in companies that make public services (one in five, if you calculate all 23.4 million workers, number comprising about 5 million self-employed). Expenditure on public labour income, i.e. salaries of 3.3 million civil servants, is worth 164 billion per annum, while expenditure on intermediate consumption is worth some 131 billion: 295 billion per year. This explains the high level of taxes, if four workers (three employees plus one self-employed) have to bear public expenditure, which feeds current expenditure, which represents 95% of the total public expenditure itself. If the level of current expenditure remains so high, investment expenditure will suffer, the only one able to support development and economic growth. The measures we have seen so far in terms of public administration therefore lack an organic vision. Even this measure, which also crosses the themes of public management, does not pose the problem of productivity, of a different and more immediate relationship between public administration and services to users, nor does the problem of productivity in the public area. A system of rules that is too intrusive is also a disincentive to doing and doing well by the public leadership, as are the fears of criminal and accounting prosecutors and civil action, to which even ANAC has been added. At the same time, recruitment of public administration managers should follow the same criteria as the private business world. Existing professionalism must be encouraged to improve their profiles towards a more digital management of public administration practices that, to be faster, must travel in parallel and not in sequence, as if it were a stack of paper falcons. The organisation of work by target, as is the case in the private sector, is still a chimera in the public administration. The interaction between citizens and public administration is among the lowest in Europe: online services are used by one in three Italians, while the European average is two out of three; only 4,500 of the 18,000 Italian public agencies used the payments of the pagoPA platform. It is therefore necessary to adapt administrations to digitalisation and not digital methodologies to the fragmentation of the huge public structure. The issues concerning the digitisation of public administration, already identified by the manager Diego Piacentini, Amazon's vice president, as well as Apple's former manager, remain unresolved. The themes are security; only one registry; a secure and easy-to-use digital identity; a system that makes public administration's IT systems interconnected; the possibility of the latter using standard and open software, tailor-made services for citizens and businesses and the possibility of contacting them via smartphones. These are simple things, which still seem unattainable. Today we can take a car in sharing through an app and make purchases from the smartphone with contactless, but do not download our certificate of residence from the municipal registry, if not in very few large municipalities. The text, therefore, not only does it not simplify, but adopts derogations and temporary rules, pending better times and new provisions to amend the rules now only exempted. In short, we are faced with an increase in regulation instead of desired deregulation and an increase in centralisation instead of desirable decentralization. The examination of this decree-law made clear the need for a structural reform of the public administration aimed at digitisation and simplification, for which Forza Italia is ready to give its contribution. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a point of being elected in Sardinia. Given the decarbonisation objectives imposed on the island, it is necessary to go beyond the norm contained in the decree, which is certainly not satisfactory, putting the island in the conditions of having energy at lower costs, for a competitive relaunch of the productive activities and also for the civil use of methane. It is therefore desirable - this is the recommendation that I hope will be accepted by the Government - an agreement between the State and the Region to share and realize the best choice for Sardinia. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u14	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, pay the car stamp without any problems, sitting comfortably on the sofa of your living room, or request the renewal of a certificate and the payment of a bonus to which you are entitled from your phone with an app, that is, a simple application, become reality with the decree simplifications. They can become more and more reality because the measure implements and strengthens the IO application: that system of digitization of the public administration that we have devised and started through the plan of the Digital Agenda, which we established with the then Renzi Government, with the aim of simplifying the life of the citizen, creating a channel facilitated of priority access to all the services of the public administration. It is a practical and useful tool that citizens have already been able to test this summer, insofar as they have resorted to the holiday bonus. In other words, it is a sort of Copernican revolution for our country, just like the start of the shock plan, which, like Italy Viva, we have been asking for months and which the decree-law in question states. It simplifies the procedures of the tenders; it frees them from a multitude of laces and laces; it creates the premises to give a shock to that rusty bureaucracy that for decades manages to keep our country immobilized and finally allows the realization of public works for hundreds of billions of euros, blocked over time or never started due to various constraints. The massive apparatus of Italian bureaucracy not only harnesses local businesses, but also discourages foreign investors and can become a real untenable ballast for our growth that, in the dramatic phase in which we find ourselves, risks dragging the country deeply. With our political initiative, like Italy Viva, we have the ambition to give more courageous and strategic objectives to the action of this Government, with the approval - for example - of Senator Renzi's save-stadium amendment, on which we do not hesitate to thank the parties of the majority and opposition who have decided to converge with us on the vote. This amendment unlocks more than EUR 3 billion for the restructuring of sports facilities and stadiums; interventions that until now were often prevented by the existence of various constraints, placed by local superintendents. Now, thanks to our amendment, we will be able to proceed with firm renovations for years, giving rise to new employment, with the effect of making Italian stadiums more welcoming and attractive places, like those of many other European countries, such as Germany, Great Britain, Holland and France; Countries in which the stadiums, once modernized, have become places of reunion and recreation for families with children and for young people - precisely for all - thus managing to remove and resolve the various problems of violence and degradation often represented by the prevalence of troublesome, hooligans and violent curves. This contributes to the restoration in Italy of a dimension of sport and football as we want it, an example of healthy competition and mutual respect. That is why the adoption of the unlocking-stadium amendment, although linked to a minor aspect such as that of sport, is a great result and success, and not only of Italy Viva, but of Italy as a whole. The simplification decree that we are about to vote on tomorrow affects many aspects: it aims to achieve a modern, faster and fairer public administration that guarantees everyone the right to digital access to public services. The era ends - for example - of the recommended paperwork; citizens will receive digital communication and will be able to download the act directly to their phone or PC. Then we say goodbye to the need for different credentials to access public services. You can use the SPID or electronic ID card to take advantage of any digital service. It will no longer be necessary to send an attached identity card: how many times have we been in trouble looking for a tobacconist equipped with a scanner that can provide scans of the identity document? It's all about the past. From now on, for all those services for which the presentation of an identity document is necessary, it will be possible to be recognized remotely through the access on SPID: it seems a small step, but it is instead as giants for the country. In general, the decree simplifications was born with the objective of making life easier for Italians and Italians. The road to simplification is the right one: if we do not simplify, we do not unlock and therefore we do not restart, while today more than ever we need to restart and do it quickly, because at a stage like the current one, when the crisis from Covid already risks to bring down the economy, Italy risks being suffocated by bureaucracy. Suffice it to say that the bad functioning of our bureaucracy and administration costs Italian companies about 60 billion euros a year. Worse is the situation for those who want to start a new business: to open a hairdressing salon - just to give an example - you have to turn to as many as 26 different agencies, make 39 files, carry out 65 fulfillments and spend on average 18,000 euros. With this measure, we would like, among other things, to make it easy for citizens and businesses to deal with public administration, so that dealing with the administration becomes a service and not a heroic effort to venture into a frail gimkana between codes and codes and defending themselves from snares, rather than receiving an answer to their problems. Italy Viva wants to streamline Italy, make it a more agile and modern country. For this reason we can only share the plant and the vocation of the decree simplifications, that it represents the foundations in order to start the plan shock; the proposal with which for months we urge the majority and the Government to unblock yards for approximately 130 billion euros, in order to create occupation and velocizzare the Country. We welcome the fact that the Government in recent months, thanks to the neighboring of Italia Viva, has matured its position, identifying in turn in investments in large public infrastructures one of the strong points from which to restart the Country. How? By simplifying the procurement procedures; by creating the conditions to put billions in circulation which, although already allocated for large public works, continue to be bogged down in the quicksand of bureaucracy, and thus restart entire territories and communities. If we want to get out of the crisis in which Coronavirus has plunged our country, we need to invest quickly, concretely, streamline procedures and digitize. Everyone needs to be convinced, even in this Parliament, of the need to make Italy more modern, without having to look suspiciously at any initiative that aims to overcome slowness and quirks, or to unlock the stadiums, or to resort to direct custody for smaller tenders. There is a part of Italy, also in this Parliament, which looks with ideological preconceptions at everything that aims to overcome the bureaucratic impasse. There is a part of Italy that thinks that dismantling the bureaucracy means circumventing the legality, almost wanting to be smart, while the opposite is true and we have also demonstrated this with our Government, at the time, with many examples: I think of Expo, the reconstruction of Pompeii and more. It is to that Italy that we turn today, to say that legality does not rhyme slowly; to respect the law can not mean to use decades to start a public yard (note well: start, and not conclude); an entrepreneur cannot wait years for a judgment to tell him whether or not he can reopen his local or his company; a citizen must not be forced to make the shuttle between dozens of public offices for a practice that should be completed in a few minutes. In short, with the decree simplifications we try to make an important contribution to move from words to actions. With our Government Renzi we had started several simplification processes: now it is time to implement them, so that they can reopen the yards and build roads, bridges, infrastructures and connections, so as to project Italy into the future it deserves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u16	Senator Pirovano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by dealing with an article which no one has mentioned and which no one will probably talk about today either. It is a fundamental article, i.e. 18. Article 18, after months, finally restores a minimum of justice for mayors. On March 2, someone had the unfortunate idea, in the middle of an emergency, especially in the Province of Bergamo, where I have lived and I have been the mayor for eleven years, to remove the mayors, who have the responsibility for public health, the power to order. Until March 8 - the day when the so-called orange zone was established in Lombardy - the mayors had no power but that of the word; they found themselves unable to make ordinances and convinced the bars, restaurants, shops and even some factories to close to save the lives of their citizens. Today this power has finally been restored, but it does not seem to me, despite the nightmare that we have experienced in our area and the great work that the mayors have done, that in this measure has shown attention to local authorities. I therefore believe that many people here have understood absolutely nothing of what was going on with us. Unfortunately, since I was lucky enough to be able to come down here alive, healthy, I realized that you did not understand - if not very few of you - even today; otherwise, you would not hear phrases like those I heard utter yesterday (the people also die of other people). And none of you would allow yourself to be in this Chamber or in the Commission without masks and without keeping your distance, at least out of respect for those who have lived the tragedy up close and are working in very poor conditions. The mayors, during the emergency, were abandoned by all the institutions: the prefecture was totally absent; the Province destroyed it and therefore was non-existent. The mayors were deprived of their powers, but they had great strength, which came from the ability of the municipalities to network, from collaboration regardless of the political color - which I believe is quite impossible to put into practice here - and from volunteering. [[Applause]] Do you know what would have happened without the municipalities and volunteers? I am not just talking about those of Civil Protection, but also the private citizens, who have endangered their health and their lives in order to save their countrymen, the elderly who we convinced - before someone woke up and told them - to stay at home or put on the mask, which at first were recommended only to the sick. Of course, they weren't there, so how could you tell the people to wear them? She was gonna panic. The masks weren't there, and people, without wearing it, died. [[Applause]] Volunteers saved their fellow citizens, bringing home food and medicine; otherwise, the elders, if not Covid, would have died of hunger or other diseases. The mayors, together, helped hospitals, organizing fundraisers and buying breathers, stretchers and machines to perform chest X-rays. 12:03 p.m. (Pyrovano followed). We've been helped by the Forces of Order, providing the masks and whatever you need. We have tabled a number of amendments on the municipalities, which have disappeared. Someone has been made unacceptable in an incredible way, such as the one on the municipal secretaries, with whom we simply asked that the deputy secretaries, in the absence of the secretaries, be able to carry out their duties. [[Applause]] When will someone tell us what happened to the secretaries, the contests, the results and the evidence? You don't know anything at all anymore. You know what it meant in the province of Bergamo, where there are about 30 secretaries for 243 municipalities, not having a city secretary in full emergency Covid? Do you know what it means for a municipality - since we have also tabled an amendment to unblock recruitment in the technical sector - to work in full emergency without municipal technicians or local police? Who was checking for Covid? Who's doing the anti-covid checkup today for gatherings if there's no local police? Keep giving money to the municipalities. [[Applause]] You give them for the emergency, without saying how they can be spent or if you ask us back next year. What are we gonna do? Will we raise taxes? We're gonna cut the services? Give the money for the operas. Also the Lombardy Region has given us a lot of money for the works, to restart the economy, but who does the projects if we do not have the technicians in the municipalities? [[Applause]] I am referring to the technicians themselves who did not take a day off, together with the mayors, in order to be able to reopen the schools and ensure that our students can leave. We were miraculously able to do everything. In my small town of 3,000 inhabitants we don't even have a problem about schools, because we took care of it with the school: voluntary parents, teachers and the principal painted the classrooms, without help from anyone. You've been thinking about digital reform. We have asked for an extension for at least the small municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants, and we thank you for granting it. In a period of smart working, however, in which we struggle in the province of Bergamo to carry out the work and we have delayed months due to Covid, of course digital is fine - no one is against it - but maybe today are other priorities and we have to start discussing this. To me this place seems to be the tower of Babel: you make monologues and no one discusses anything; you don't get into the heart of the issues; you don't do planning or programming; you don't have dreams. What do we want this country to become? It is not possible that, after such a pandemic and all the dead - in Bergamo we had twice the victims of the attack on the Twin Towers - nothing has yet been understood here, because nothing has been understood! [[Applause]] I am not here to make a press release, because I have been approved by an amendment. I'm here to change things, and I don't care whether the majority or the opposition. We are people, we can talk, instead of throwing criticism and insults at us anywhere, even though almost 40,000 people have died in this country. [[Comments]] My name is Daisy Pirovano, okay? (Repliche). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pirovano, forget the internal diatribes and continue with your speech. PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I hope that sooner or later someone will understand what happened, because my people want not revenge, but justice, and the best way to give it is to recognize the dignity of the people and of the Bergamo mayors, because some of them gave their lives in Covid's period, so as not to abandon their community. Someone got sick and kept working. With this phone I could write an encyclopedia about what happened in those weeks, during which the mayors were abandoned; we arranged without bureaucracy, thanks to the friendship, collaboration and love we have for our people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask whether it is simplification in the broad sense to open schools on 14 September and then close them for the referendum on 19, 20, 21 and perhaps 22 September. The first Republic, so vicious, would never have made such a mistake. In Italy, all those who have spoken of simplifying have tried, but in reality they have complicated, creating new organisms. In my brief speech, I will give you notice of the things I like and that can be shared and of the innovations that, in my opinion, unfortunately go into the category of further complications. Implementation and regional legislation, decrees, regulations, resolutions and decisions, the bodies which must give opinions, which have been set up ad hoc and of which we do not even know or remember their existence, will play their part and will really resist. That is what needs to be done. If everything works - in my opinion - in some respects the current legislation already allows us to continue and carry out public works, a subject which, for example, is mentioned in the decree. Suddenly, everything that was forbidden - I heard earlier speeches on urban and building matters, on the custody of public works, for which we have had endless discussions and press campaigns even with strikes - becomes possible, albeit temporarily. I have already asked a colleague in the Finance Committee this morning if you have been hit on the road to Damascus. It is a good signal, if it will continue and allow the oppositions to do constructive work with amendments and with a discussion in the Commissions without putting trust, which is an exceptional act, but which here seems to have become habitual. It is not good to make offers of cooperation and then put the question of trust because, if we remember the recent past, placing it on all measures would deserve the occupation of the House and also riots of the streets. Finally, have you consulted for this decree-law the trade associations of each extraction and type or just the task force of 450 experts - paid even little - without having listened to 315 senators (to be reduced now to 200)? There are some big issues about public works, which I allow myself to submit for personal knowledge. The OR, which is a central figure, has a huge responsibility. There is fear of signing; there is a responsibility to make the wrists tremble: it probably had to be lifted by a political body. With regard to the Junta of Institutions, Article 6 provides for the establishment of the Technical Advisory Board for contracts above the threshold, to speed up, monitor and monitor. I think this is technically a duplicate. Articles 1 and 2, which provide for custody above and below thresholds, are 99 percent good. With regard to the appointment of the Commissioner, who is heard by the Ministers (Article 9) and the Parliamentary Commissions for works of particular magnitude and complexity, I think that the sentence should be added: "or when the station decides it." In some cases, however, the Commissioner can also use it for minor works, when there are too many opinions such as those of the superintendents, the Committee on the Landscape and other bodies of this kind. As far as the rules are concerned, I checked, in Article 10, whether they were also concerned with the past and today's bagatellar procedures, as defined in the technical report. I have tried to understand whether proceedings, including judicial proceedings, relating to building, entrusting and appealing to the Court of Auditors could concern the past, because they have generated too much litigation and too many proceedings that divert ordinary, administrative and accounting justice from the most important issues. In Article 10, on simplifications in the field of construction, there are some interesting ideas, except for the question of retroactive non-effectiveness, which I have mentioned. It is an attempt, not made, to solve the problem of double compliance, which creates problems in notarial acts, for example in successions and in every building practice that is presented. Sometimes, the practice has no previous recall or has some small difficulty, if it is not before 1967, but has more recent times. Maybe this date could be moved. On the contrary, the removed constraint of the same chair and the same silhouette, if inserted in an urban plan that includes a program of urban regeneration, is one more, because the urban plans, although with the partial variants, can be somehow exceeded, have times that are not those of simplification. There is, however, a good idea. In paragraph 5 there is the classification of light structures intended to be removed at the end of their seasonal use, as a free building activity. This is good. The extension of the validity of building licences for the beginning and end of three-year work is interesting. I would invite those who decide, your technicians, your offices, those who consult, the Ministers, the Undersecretaries - there are several ministries responsible for this matter - to return to the fact that we can work in the field of public works (as referred to in Articles 1 and 2) and in the field of construction (as referred to in Article 10) in a much simpler and faster way, without the fear of having to decide, even on a slight discrepancy, through complex and costly procedures. The non-compliance provides a charge equal to twice the incremental value of the property, certified and peritated by the State Property Agency. This can be discussed indefinitely, but it is dangerous and it is not simplification. On seismic events, there are three problems - in my opinion - which have not been solved: on waste, we need to simplify and "overflow"; yes to sanatoria and building pardon; no to the invitation to tender for individuals, otherwise we will come out in 2100. In Article 22, on the concomitant monitoring of the Court of Auditors in order to speed up the efforts to support and relaunch the national economy, I say no, because it is not simplification, but it is exactly the opposite. On Articles 24 and 24, some of them, such as that on digital citizenship, raise ethical, moral, general and political problems which should be discussed, not only by the Ministries, but also by Parliament. I will conclude with an article which presents two interesting technical ideas, which are the ones that should interest people. Paragraph 5 of Article 38 regulates the technical characteristics of digital infrastructures. There is a jungle of sub-services. Therefore, to realize a micro-trenches of width ranging from 2 to 4 cm, deep from 10 to 35 cm, will create - in my opinion - problems. I would like to address the Secretary-General, who is responsible for these problems. Paragraph 6 concerns the location of installations. Thinking of 5G, I'm gonna quit with a joke. This rule also applies to municipalities with centre-right administrations, which may pass the committees: make simplified decree-laws, such as Decree No 104 of 14 August 2020, which do not require, for each print copy, the removal of a tree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u21	Mr President, we have said several times - but I think it is right to say so - that, after the pandemic, nothing will be the same as before. This simplification measure, very important and full-bodied, as far as we are concerned, faces an emergency that is that, fundamental, of the times of intervention, because even the best, more full-bodied, more rational interventions, if they do not come in concretely, immediately, risk being totally useless. We have seen that nothing will be the same as before and at this juncture Italy, which has done so much and is doing so much, has met, however, with regard to the times, the fundamental historical knots of its backwardness of the country system. In this respect, we have seen urgent measures which - as we have already said - have been slow to arrive in practice in the homes of citizens or in the workplace because of these historical problems. Of course, we can intervene with measures of zeroing, of annihilation of the State, such as condones or similar, or we can intervene to tackle the historical problems. This measure obviously not only intervenes on the emergency, but also wants to give a new approach. I would like to say that the work in Parliament has been very important, and it is not the usual - albeit always due - thank you for the practice. It seems to me that in this case the work in the Commission has been very thorough and fruitful, and it has given Parliament a role, majority and opposition, and I think that we should reflect on this in order to draw some positive ideas from it. There is a question on which we are confronted: nothing will be the same as before, because we see that there is a need for a public intervention that works; the answer cannot be that the State gets away and stands aside, and here there is a big difference of approach. The point is that we believe that we need a state present, that it works and that it supports it. And we also believe that there is a theme of uniformity of support, because among the historical nodes that we offer and on which we will have to reflect there is the fragmentation of the answers of the public, which is absolutely no longer bearable. Of course, it is not enough to refer to the good feelings of our communities, which are always good, does not commit, but we would never want it to be a straying and a stepping aside, appreciating the excellent feelings of our communities, to which we always owe a great deal. I quote some issues that I think are symbolically important. There is the whole part about the responsibility of the administrators, which I would exemplify with the fact that one tends to punish, sanction inertia, typical of a state or a public apparatus now screwed on itself. However, we should also look at something differently when we do and do something about responsibility and evaluation; knowing that, when we talk about public administration, the issue of the discretion of intervention is sensitive and important. There is the issue of the diffusion of the digital administration that - as has already been said - will impose on us and impose on us a different organization, a different thought that is still not enough. We are not talking, of course, simply about a technology; it is the same difference that exists between discussing smart working and teleworking. We know very well what it means, what the implications and opportunities we have. There is the whole issue of simplification in the area of enterprise, the environment and the green economy, which is the great protagonist in question and on which we have placed a great deal of bet in interlocution, obtaining a commitment from Europe. And on this, of course, we must be - as you know - on the subject, knowing that investments and efforts must be directed not only because it is important and useful, but also because the investments and the appropriations that we have agreed and obtained with Europe will come. I conclude by making three examples on which we have worked and have had the opportunity to make a contribution, because I think they are significant. I am referring to an amendment, which has been adopted, in relation to the easier credit for small and medium-sized enterprises. We know that this is also one of the historical nodes, namely the difficulty of accessing credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, which clearly became stratospheric in the Covid emergency. In the measure we introduced a simplification of procedures for the allocation of public funds to small and medium-sized enterprises with the aim of granting greater guarantees. In this case, we are talking about confids and, therefore, interventions that are closely linked to the public. In order to provide support, we need more decisive action and rationalization. Another issue involves energy, the green economy, that is the use of electricity on the docks to which the boats have access. Again, investment is needed to simplify, to direct, otherwise green economy becomes an empty term. Finally, more rapid payment is needed for lawyers who access legal aid: not only is the dignity of the defence at stake, but we are also talking about not granting a bonus but giving what is due. I will really conclude, Mr President, with a reflection on the issue of simplifications and the meeting with bureaucracy, which must become a positive and not a negative term: high bureaucracy is what distinguishes the modern states that work. Here we are dealing with a subject that comes from afar, that is, the whole issue of controls, legality, a virtuous regime, transparency. We cannot and must not think - and this is the approach in which we recognize ourselves and I personally recognize myself - that simplifying means having less transparency, less controls and that we are constantly putting in contrast the legality, therefore a better functioning of the system, and a greater tolerance on a opacity as a cost necessary to have more development. I want to recall what Max Weber called "The Protestant Ethics and the Spirit of Capitalism." We need a pact that goes beyond sanctions, laws and measures; a pact for a new social and economic development. In this sense, I think that nothing will be the same as before, and that will be the basis for the new development prospects. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u22	Senator Castiello is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u23	Mr President, I take the floor to explain some aspects that I think are the most qualified of the decree-law that we are about to convert. I refer in particular to the participatory principle, which was the fundamental reform of Law No 241 of 1990, universally considered the most important law of contemporary administrative law. When Law No 241 of 7 August 1990 entered into force, Articles 7 and 8 of Law No 241 of 7 August 1990 established the obligation to give notice of the proceedings, i.e. the mandatory notification of the initiation of proceedings, that the plenary meeting of the Council of State reviewed with rather strong words, saying that it had a greater scope - I quote - than the introduction of the guarantee notice into the penal code. This great novelty introduced in Law No. 241 has been dampened over time; therefore, this is the importance of the enactment of today's law. It has been softened because the jurisprudence, after the immense openings of the plenary meeting, has gradually carved out, over the years, a role of cushioning from the scope of the reform, in favour of the public administration - of the indolence of the public administration or of a certain part of it - in the sense that it has introduced the difference between discretionary activity and tied activity. Therefore, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 104 of 19 March 2007, defined the right procedure as a principle of constitutional rank, distinguishing between discretionary activity and bound activity, it put in the hands of the administration the pretext for resetting or in any case strongly weakening the obligation of prior communication over time. The measure we are about to approve fills this serious gap, balancing the relationship between administration and citizens, with a high rate of democracy and a high level of consistency with the rule of law, insofar as it respects and implements Article 97 of the Constitution, as well as Article 3. Article 12 states that notice of rejection, i.e. the obligation to communicate grounds for refusing to accept an application for absence, is universal, regardless of whether the measure is discretionary or bound. With this clear and precise closure, the administration can no longer hide behind the finger of the captiveness of the act, in order to avoid communicating the initiation of the proceedings. Therefore, this rule strongly strengthens the greatest achievement of the great contemporary reforms of the public administration, which is that of a consensualized procedure, of a concentrated investigation and, therefore, of a decrease of the gap between the administration, on a level of authority, and the citizen, on a level of subjection. That is why the law is extremely appropriate. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall begin my conclusions quickly. There is another group of very important rules, that is, the one that extends the silence assent and, above all - I would like to emphasize, in a final joke - the one that obliges us to use digitalization as the proper and common language of the administration. There is a rule in the norm, which is very important, namely that which obliges the administration to communicate the digital domicile of the party responsible for the proceedings. There are so many times that you come across an abstraction, an ectoplastic figure, that is, the administration. What is administration? It's all and nothing. On the other hand, when we give a face to the person responsible for the procedure and identify it through the obligation to communicate the address of the digital home, I think we have taken a big step forward. So this is a reform that should be signed not only by members of the majority, but also by colleagues in the opposition, because it is a reason and a time for implementing and respecting the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u24	Senator Riccardi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u25	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the simplification decree under consideration today should be a necessary measure to give our country essential tools to overcome the difficulties it faces, namely faster, simpler and digitised administrative procedures; more streamlined procedures that do not jam in the thick links of bureaucracy, without sacrificing controls to ensure the correctness and legality of the work of institutional and private operators. Without a doubt, the simplification decree is a step in this direction, as its leaders address the issues of simplification in the fields of public contracts and construction, procedural simplification and erorial responsibility, simplification for the support and dissemination of digital administration and simplification in the areas of business activities, environment and green economy. In the course of the Commission's work, the majority of the key issues of the decree-law were discussed and, in accordance with the roles of majority and opposition, the improvements needed to be made to the text were those which were necessary for our Group. We are pleased that a majority of our suggestions have been accepted, such as those under the Procurement Code, regarding the overcoming of the ban that had hitherto precluded access to state incentives for photovoltaic systems built on abandoned areas, on the simplification of reconstruction in the earthquake crater within the restricted areas, or on the aid of local authorities. These are just some of the proposals made by the League Group and presented following listening to citizens' requests and the professional and entrepreneurial world. [[Applause.]] However, while on the one hand - as has just been said - the simplification decree-law represents a step forward on the road to the deburocratization of procedures - and we are pleased that some of the demands have been accepted - on the other hand, the majority perhaps lacked the courage to adopt clearer solutions in some areas. We regret that some of the amendments, even the simplest ones from the legal point of view, have not been accepted. I am referring, for example, to the question of taking into account the different levels of infrastructure development of digital lines in the areas of our national territory with a view to the entry into force of digitalisation obligations on businesses and citizens. [[Applause]] Our demands in the field of justice have not yet been accepted. Our members of the competent Commission have been the promoters of some common sense amending proposals, which have also been stimulated by what has emerged during the hearings on this subject. For example, in the area of erorial responsibility, our Commissioners have proposed to remove the time-limit for the application of the new erarial liability, as amended by Article 21 of the Decree-Law currently under consideration. This proposal was also formulated on the basis of the Court of Auditors' hearing, which made it clear that the limited time-limit provided for in the measure before our review, i.e. since its entry into force until 31 July 2021, risks not pursuing the objective set. On the other hand, it refers to further interpretative problems by virtue of the fact that the jurisdiction of accounting is also subject to the principle of legality, from which constitutional jurisprudence derived the principle of retroactivity, taxableness and determining the law. In practice, the observations of the Court of Auditors tell us that the precepts of accounting liability must also be found to be the source of a legal provision that came into force before the crime was committed because anyone, with regard to the fundamental principle of guilt, must be able in advance to adapt his behaviour to the law, knowing in advance the consequences that will result from the violation of the conduct provided for by the norm. Instead, the wording of the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Decree-Law highlights the problem of compliance with the constitutionally guaranteed principles and the assumptions of conduct relevant from the point of view of liability at a certain time, no longer such for a defined period (the one provided for by the aforementioned norm of the Decree-Law simplifications) and again relevant for a later period. Comments are also to be made on the matter of ex officio abuse. The rule of the decree-law before our examination leaves serious doubts as to its effectiveness and so much results also from the debate that took place in the Commission Justice, where the original majority rapporteur resigned, having not been able to sufficiently deepen the matter, and the Mixed-Free and Equal Group abstained from voting on the consultative opinion, expressing doubts about the wording of the proposed text, especially in the part where it refers to not well specified rules of conduct, claiming that the proposed wording does not solve the problems that the Government declared to want to settle. [[Applause.]] We regret, therefore, that the suggestion to repeal the rule that reformulates the offence of ex officio abuse has not been accepted. And we regret it all the more because also the national prosecutor anti-mafia, Dr Cafiero De Raho, has emphasized that the new formulation proposed by the decree-simplifications law can translate into a substantial de-accountability of the public officials and that the rule so formulated would have repealing effects that would be of consequences also on the established conducts with sentence already passed in court. Finally, it was absolutely incomprehensible that the majority who supported and promoted digitalisation were refusing to accept the amendment that simplifies the procedure for the digital handing over of the proxy to the defender, with a view to implementing the telematic process. In conclusion, although some progress has been made on simplification, I believe that this time, too, the majority lacked the courage to make the most incisive political choices, which in this particular period, on the other hand, are absolutely necessary for the revival of the economy and the well-being of businesses and citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u26	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the decree-law that we are preparing to transform into law introduces measures of simplification and digital innovation to lighten the bureaucratic procedures that have all too often prevented our country from looking ahead in the strategic sectors of public contracts, construction, digital administration, business activity, environment and green economy, and to keep pace not only with the times, but also with the normal evolution of society. Precisely to encourage public investment in the emerging period due to the unexpected pandemic, which changed the economic and social scenario of the country, action is taken on the procedures for the award of public contracts, applying procedures for relying in derogation from the procurement code forecasts and establishing different references depending on whether they are works or services and supplies, including engineering and architecture services and design activity. Measures related to public contracts, with precise interventions depending on whether they are contracts above or below threshold, are a signal of attention to companies, which are the beating heart of our economy, whose activity is often trapped in a network of anachronistic lengths. For this reason it is worth noting the possibility to participate in these procedures also for the temporary groupings of enterprises and the authorization of the work in an emergency in order to verify the requirements of the Code of Contracts on the grounds of exclusion and the qualification requirements for participation in the procedures; regarding the procedures pending or initiated from the date of entry into force of this Decree until 31 December 2021, the delivery of the work in an emergency in the mores of the aforementioned verifications is always authorised. However, I should like to point out - as we have been arguing for a long time - that there is finally a possibility of derogating from the rules on public contracts until the end of 2021, except for European and anti-mafia standards and for very few essential rules of the Procurement Code. We have worked so that the synergies between the Ferrovie dello Stato group and ANAS, which have so far remained unimplemented and firm on paper, are favored among the specific derogations, so as to prevent the necessary interventions for the infrastructures of our country. Another very important result is the extension of the procedure of EIA for the ports also to the airports, thus excluding the strategic environmental assessment for the airport development plans and avoiding that all the elements required for the EIA are required also for the VAS (with clear intent of bureaucratic burdening), avoiding procedural overlaps that make these appraisals too long time and with repeated passages. I would like to thank the Government for its favourable opinion on our amendment, which has allowed a real simplification, against other amendments aimed at tightening up the legislation and which did not bring anything positive to companies in the sector, except an ideological flag claim. As we thought to intervene in order to put an end to the absurd situation created by the norm of the Calabria decree on health that, between the various blocks caused, had suspended the competences of the single regional contracting station, delegation all to conventions commissioners with societies of other Regions, that to date have not carried out any contest and therefore nothing have brought positive to the health Calabrian, if not to allow, in contempt to every rule of legality and transparency, extensions of expired contests and increase of costs for the Calabrians. I would like to reiterate, in the absence of misunderstandings and other flag rises, that the single purchasing station (SUA) of the Calabria Region has never been affected by investigations or suspicions of malpractice, but even, following the more than positive evaluation of the ANAC inspectors, the same MEF has recognized over the years amounts of reward for the activity carried out equal to or greater than that of the best purchasing power stations. There is also action for innovation by public administrations, emphasising organisational flexibility and the new organisational model focused on objectives, in the direction of achieving agile work, which - I would stress - is quite different from homework, very often in dispute and - in my opinion - other than genuine public administration innovation. It is clear that real innovation is closely linked to continuing training, but it cannot be delegated to an emerging decree, but it is a natural consequence of the measures envisaged to make work sustainable with specific projects and objectives. It is clear that in some cases and sectors the performance objectives are generic and inadequate for achieving the results, and so are the specific criteria for measuring and evaluating the work achieved. That is why - I hope - we are referring to a genuine reform of public administration and labour, which is not about welfare, but really about facilitating employment levels with recognition of everyone's skills and merit. A sign of openness to the world of research and culture is to have extended the possibility of experimentation also to universities, research institutions and private companies, thus extending the opportunity for all those who work in this field and without limitation only to public subjects. Above all, research in this moment of emergency must be free and allow the same opportunities to all the subjects (especially young people) who take care of this daily, clearly assessing - I repeat - the criteria of competence in this regard both in the public and in the private, without ideological preclusions and conditionings dictated perhaps by a short-sighted management of very important sectors, but often left to themselves and purely self-referential. In this decree attention is also reserved to the discipline of the dynamic monitoring system for the safety of bridges and viaducts and similar works on roads and highways, but also intervening on the code of the road to modify aspects that perhaps - in my humble opinion - would need a more in-depth and technical study in order to understand the actual relapse, as well as the effective existence of infrastructures necessary for the security itself. We cannot insist, in fact, perhaps because of incompetence or perhaps by exploiting the emergency, on the current legislation, pending a comprehensive reform of the road code, if the resources are not given priority and the direct involvement of all the bodies concerned is foreseen. To use a southern proverb that I know because of the South, let's say that, sometimes, you set the table without having done the shopping. Let us therefore take these rules included in the decree-law as good will - I address the Undersecretary - for a commitment that must be immediate and substantial by the Government as soon as these norms are transformed into law. It is also of prime interest to businesses, local authorities and also directly to the Presidency of the Council, Article 10 on simplification in the building sector, which introduces important derogations from the limits laid down by the building laws in order to resolve uncertainties in the field of reconstructive construction; to reduce the bureaucratic burden on citizens and businesses; to ensure the recovery and upgrading of the existing building stock and the development of regeneration processes. On Article 10, however, I do not want to go too far, because I am sure that other Members will have the right interest in situations that have involved constructive confrontations to go beyond party battles. Speaking of party battles, since we are also here to allow the policy to raise the level to which unfortunately it is very often relegated lately, I cannot fail to say that in the end so many regulatory changes were foreseen in the shock plan on infrastructure presented to the Government. But, considering the moment of fragility of the country, I am aware that it is necessary to achieve the objectives together, because it is not always possible to make the citizens understand, outside these buildings, the difficulties in trying to carry out a job in favour of a good government that can guarantee a real cultural and economic increase of our society. I conclude by thanking the Government and colleagues with whom we have shared moments of tension, but also common intentions only for the good governance of the country. I hope that the parliamentary activity, which has ended this period, will emerge for what it is and that we all carry out with seriousness and responsibility and not simply to give voice to widespread populisms that aim only to confuse the sense and the high and prestigious role of the institutions we represent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u28	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, trust and freedom must be allowed to speak and work who can and wants to do so; free from all baroqueism, from every harp, from every snare and snare of entrepreneurs in every sector, owners of productive activities, free professionals, school managers, rectors, health workers, recycling companies, municipalities, provinces, local authorities in general, so that the rebirth starts from the natural and innate resilience of the Italian people. It is from the beginning of the pandemic that we are repeating it as a mantra: "trust and freedom", because those who still have the courage in this country and the will to do contributing to the restart can do so without obstacles. We have tried to be and continue to be proactive, assertive, concrete, without prejudice and absolutely not selfish compared to the sharing of ideas and solutions to bring the country out of the crisis quickly; for the sake of our country, giving you ideas and bringing you back the voice of the people and territories: those people and those territories from which you are now very far away, so far away that you have completely lost the sense of reality and things. One word comes to mind: school. All right, let's move on. Let us return to the simplification decree: a very important measure that has always become omnibus and concerns public works, justice, local authorities, energy, the circular economy, the environment in general and public administration. It could have been the prodrome, the essential incipit, the table to start laying out that investment project in order to be able to access the recovery fund, that recovery fund conditioned to the country vision. Simplifying and making life easier for citizens would be an even more necessary objective, since Commissioner Gentiloni has confirmed that the resources of the recovery fund cannot be targeted for unproductive current spending: that is, no bonuses, no clientele, but only for investments. Nothing, there's no means and there's no way. The ideological wall raised above all on a part of the Government - the one that from the first day of the legislature occupied the cracks of power continuously, however with the approval of those who are partners today and that therefore is even more responsible (i.e. PD and Italy Viva) and accepts everything in order not to lose the position acquired - is always higher and denser, so much so that it does not allow more to those who should look away even to look beyond the tip of their shoes. Remember, though, that sins of omission remain very serious. "Office complications simple business": this could be renamed a measure that should and could have been the real, great, immense opportunity to untie every knot, to comb the threads of the Italian socio-economic fabric that today are tangled over measure on the chassis. It would have been an opportunity to start a real action of simplification of those endless bureaucratic procedures that characterize our country; a country in which, in order to carry out any work, it takes on average more than five years and, for the public sector, ten years. Some proposals have been accepted, but it really is a condolence to the sharing that such a measure would have required. There are 17 amendments by Forza Italia that will enter into the text of the maxi amendment: in the field of tendering and participation of consortia; on public reconstruction in the earthquake areas; on the relations between citizens and public administration, based on the principle of collaboration and good faith in the matter of administrative procedure and access to documents; on fire brigades; on the system of telephony and on provisions to facilitate the access of people with disabilities to computer tools, creating a single national platform of plates associated with circulation permits of the holders of marking; on the system of environmental impact assessment (IA) and strategic environmental assessment (VAS); on thermal discharges; on the acceleration of processes; on electrical charges and so on, managing also to intervene on carbon storage, therefore on the reduction of CO2 emissions, abolishing that rule which limited the possibility of granting transitional authorisations in the light of the lack of implementing decrees. And on this we could open another great chapter. On the whole, however, this is a wasted opportunity, with a majority rejecting amendments by Forza Italia and the centre-right which, on the other hand, could have really made a difference. I repeat them once again: the introduction of vouchers in agriculture, tourism, catering; the regularization and implementation of municipal secretaries or their abolition in small municipalities, paralyzed by secretaries to bypass. Instead, no contracts at zero kilometers; on the EIA only uttered; obviously no reception of those procedures - for example - of introducing the standard cost for students in schools, to transfer directly to families the resources for the school; no attention to the recognition of the language of signs for deaf people; we do not speak of the usual lack of attention for disabled people, keeping intact those procedures and that undergrowth of compliances, certifications and verifications that paralyze the country. We are not talking about that amendment to Article 10, perhaps the most significant one for the economic recovery of the country, which has been mentioned several times this morning in the Assembly, which concerns the building regulations and which in the night has been modified, accepting an amendment by Liberi and Equal that has completely upset it, complicated how much could instead be simplified - perhaps the basic text was better than the amended text - preventing today, with the excuse of Covid-19, also that preventive public debate on the great works that should have been the polar star of participation. Instead, do not talk to the driver.This is the leit motiv, but this is easy. There is also a lack of provisions to simplify the life of small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of waste management and waste management and integrated environmental authorisation. There is a lack of incentives for investments aimed at ecological transition, which would, among other things, be particularly important today to support our companies in exiting the pandemic. There are no simplifications, as usual - but this no longer surprises us - on the discipline of the end of waste, while, in order to favor and make more profitable recycling compared to disposal, the circular economy should be simplified in the issue of its licences. In essence, the driving force for the rebirth of the country is really missing, which could have led to the mother of every simplification of the life of the citizens: the cutting of taxes. [[Applause]] ; taxes that still stifle businesses and professionals, preventing them from investing in the most valuable asset: work. And it's obviously the country that costs it. I have to say, if freedom is really participation, we're in a bad place. The real simplification is only one: go home, let the country be free to be governed by someone who has real competence and sincere listening ability. [[Applause. Comments]] It's so simple: you go home. Let's simplify people's lives. Let us free this country to be governed by someone who has real competence - I repeat - and sincere listening ability; someone who, before coming to occupy the benches of Parliament, has minimally trained in any field and has had some concrete experience, even only the local administrator for a mandate. That would be the real reform. I am also thinking of the cut in the number of Members. I would like to prefer quality to quantity, because this is the real problem of the country, quality not quantity, because surgical cuts do not necessarily lead to cut the correct part: sometimes you cut what you should not cut. In this way it would avoid adding presumption to the lack of knowledge and avoiding exits like yesterday's Minister De Micheli who, quoting our leader Bernini, succeeded in the titanic undertaking to overcome even the former Minister Toninelli, declaring that he wanted to set up a special commission to connect Sicily and Calabria with the bike paths. What else? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Corti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Senators of the Lega Group who, during these long weeks, especially in the Joint Commissions 1st and 8th, have alternated day and night to bring home concrete results. With determination and perseverance, in fact, we are alternated by carrying out those simple demands that come from below, reported by entrepreneurs, VAT matches and workers. We have managed to table those hundreds of amendments for the common good that we have submitted to the majority. When we talk about the simplification decree we can say fortunately that, with satisfaction, a number of amendments by the League were accepted, although with a very close comparison in which common sense and logic prevailed. When we talk about decree simplifications, in fact, we must remember that the DESI index relegates us to the fourth last place in the European Union for digital backwardness, with an estimated loss by the Politecnico di Milano of 25 billion per year, taking as a benchmark a country equivalent to ours as a population and extension of the territory. So, after expressing a bit of satisfaction and thanks, I would also, unfortunately, like to express some regret at the immediate failure to accept other amendments which, at zero cost and even with the saving of public resources, would have further simplified the bureaucracy - for example - of municipal offices. I believe, since we have debated it, that everyone now knows the example of needle printers that are still used to print citizens' death certificates, almost a post-mortem persecution of our citizens and taxpayers. Needle printers require great maintenance and use of an A3+ paper format that is even obsolete. In addition, certificates must be printed in duplicate. For those who have had the opportunity to use them, needles printers are the ones you have to wait for because printing almost seems to be the birth of the printer. These certificates - printed even in duplicate - are kept in the competent prefecture and the archives are now full. If we are talking about digitisation, our amendment should have been accepted immediately because, when it comes to the common good, an amendment is expected to be incorporated, perhaps amended in a text 2, and immediately adopted by the majority. Well, we have been denied this at the moment. We have been asked to turn it into an agenda and, therefore, we are also waiting for digitalization for death certificates, hoping that the savings of about a thousand euros per printer for our approximately 8,000 municipalities, which always creates problems, will occur quickly. We are talking, in fact, of tens of millions of euros, as well as of speed, digital transmission of the certificate of death and digital storage of these documents. Another amendment that is particularly close to my heart, and which would not only save money but would even bring money into the state's coffers, is the one relating to plates for historic vehicles. How many hundreds of thousands of fans of historic vehicles are there in Italy who invest their savings in the restoration and conservation of these vehicles and then find themselves having to put a new plate, which is really a disaster on them? Well, we have tabled an amendment of common good by estimating considerable revenues for the State, since we have plates that express the historical cultural heritage of our vehicles (the old plates of the Provinces with the orange initials, their alphanumeric characters that make the beauty of these cars and motorcycles). Well, we have been asked once again to turn it into an agenda, and we have done so. Attention, however: we have met the majority. There are few members of the majority in this House, but we hope that they have read our agendas or read them quickly because, if they are then carried forward and approved, the responsibility will be only of the Government and of the majority. [[Applause.]] I invite the Government and the majority to be close to the immense people of the self-employed, because it is 5 million and it is from them that the ideas come, really simple and for the common good, that we often propose. I invite you in the coming weeks - as a small task for the majority and the members of the Government - to make friends and adopt an independent worker, an entrepreneur, a small craftsman. By spending time with these people who work every day and are the real backbone of our economy - they have to solve the problems that our bureaucracy creates - we have seen that they find common sense solutions. Well, adopt and make friends with a self-employed person, a small VAT number, a small entrepreneur and you will see that, in the next laws and legislative proposals, there will be many things of common sense at zero cost or even with an income economic benefit for the State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u34	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to ask the Presidency, having first consulted the other group leaders, to suspend work on our political group meeting at least until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u35	All right, Senator Perilli, but I need to go on with at least a few more speeches, because some senators may find it difficult to intervene this afternoon and, therefore, it seems right to give them the floor now. If there's an agreement from all groups, that's okay with me. Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u36	Mr President, I am speaking about an important procedure that has involved so many senators, the Offices and the whole Senate in the last ten days, with a truly incessant and - in our opinion - productive work. It is true that nothing is perfect and that everything is perfectible. I have heard so many speeches by my colleagues, especially the opposition, back to how negative and not productive the decree-law that is being converted this week is. However, I repeat to them that nothing is perfect and everything is perfectible. The role that we have, as senators of the Italian Republic, requires us, precisely, to continuously oversee the measures that we present - as we have done in these days in the Commissions - and to continue to oversee them later, in order to intervene, if necessary, to improve them again. That is our role. I must thank the rapporteurs, of course, as well as the Government, always present. I also thank the Offices, which have accompanied us all in drafting and rewording the amendments, the Presidency and, therefore, the Senate. Above all, however, I would like to thank the Presidents of the Commission and the Commissioners all of them. I was able to see the work of the Commissions meeting not as a member of the Commission. Those who were present always saw me, because I followed some of the amendments I had tabled and we had tabled as a Group. As an outsider, therefore, I say to all of us that we have worked so hard and well. Perhaps we should also remember that when, at times, superficially, we shoot at the role of Members, saying that they do not do what they have to do. We have shown, over the last ten days, that we can work, each one holding his own positions, of course, but I do not think he does a good service to anyone saying that politics does not work and does not work. We are careful, especially in times such as the current one. By now in the specific of the provision, emphasizing that the decree-law in question is important because it seeks to simplify. It is perhaps an abused term - it is true - but this we have tried to do, through procedural interventions, in order to give breath to our country and to allow unlocking of investments on our territories. What we have tried to achieve, as a Group and myself, was to start with the municipalities, our local administrators, to listen to their needs, to bring back the problems with which every day, on the territory, our administrators are measured and with which they often have to fight to try to carry on investments and improvements to the territorial structures, which are most necessary for our citizens. I would like to thank the mayors here for their commitment, particularly in recent months, to the territories and that we must never forget, especially in this House. We all know that the mayors, municipal councillors and administrators, even the smallest territories, are the first ones in contact with the needs of every citizen. Therefore, thanks go to them for how they managed to keep the territories and give answers, in such difficult months. Attracting investments on the territories was a lighthouse that guided us, in the drafting of this decree-law, in order to revive the economy: from the most disadvantaged territories up to the big cities, which have suffered so much from the crisis. I speak as a senator of a city that, of course, at this moment has suffered, like the most important cities (Milan, Naples, Venice, Rome itself, Palermo and Catania: there are many). There was a need and - in my opinion - the best answers were given at this time to allow serious, faster and simpler investments in our territories. It is true that so many amendments have been tabled, even by the majority, but - as I said at the beginning - nothing is perfect and everything is perfect. The commitment of each of us has been fruitful in this respect. I would also like to thank you once again for the amendments which have not been accepted and which will give us a chance to work again. Not everyone's done well, in fact, for me, too. I shall conclude by talking about two issues on which I had tabled amendments which have come to an end. I'll be at the stadium later. There's that theme too, but it's not all there is, luckily. This is what those who tabled the amendment say: that is not only the simplification decree. It is not only the release for bound stages. I had tabled an amendment, which was transformed into an agenda. In this regard, I would like to thank Senator Mirabelli who, as the Commission's Parent Company, followed him and lost nothing. It is a small amendment - as has already been said - but it has been requested by the smallest municipalities and concerns the judicial record. The municipalities need to request the data of the judicial record when they extend races and when they go on. For small municipalities it is always difficult to get what they require because, talking to larger administrations than they do, they are often kept in suspense. So the months pass and you already know that for small municipalities it is difficult to make tenders and it is even more difficult if then there are blocks. I hope that the agenda may have followed, because it is simply a matter of bringing the small municipalities closer to the State and therefore of speeding up the procedures in a simple way. I shall conclude with a reference to the amendment on the stadiums. Everyone has written it - it's okay - and the fathers have been many. I could say, however, that the mother is always certain: an amendment of mine was there and is very similar to what was then approved and I stop at that. The measure is not only a step-by-step measure: of course, it is an important rule, which will allow investment in the territories and the Democratic Party has carried it forward only to enable the stadiums where so many teams have to play to be modernized; to allow no more land to be consumed, because we have always talked about the environment in this House and for us it is a priority, and it will also increase the safety at the stadiums. The chase, which assists those who live in one of the regions where the election campaign is currently underway, is understandable. However, I also invite everyone to a little sobriety and say this to those who tabled the amendment and followed it for ten days, the only Florentine senator of the PD and the majority in this House. I think there's some sobriety to bring back. The norm came to an end, and we're all happy that's what happened. Now we hope that with this decree, not only for stadiums, but for Italy, a new era begins. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u37	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that, as a simplification decree, I would have liked to have taken the view of people who are generally in greatest difficulty, those who in fact need a simplification of procedures in order to have access to their rights, but also to the services they really need. In fact, if the simplification decree has a systematic weakness that crosses it all, it is precisely the point that concerns people with various titles bearing some kind of handicap. I begin with one of the amendments, which was rejected - as in fact happened to the vast majority of the opposition's objectives - concerning Article 10 on the removal of architectural barriers. The theme of architectural barriers is extremely delicate, because it really guarantees the possibility of movement that we all have and that we do not realize in the everyday life of our actions. Architectural barriers are something that looks very close to the lockdown of people who are somehow forced to stay at home, because in fact they cannot move and not because there is a norm that prevents them at that time, but because a constraint does not allow them to overcome the difficulty. Having refused to accept an amendment that had as its sole objective to meet disabled people really indicates a lack of sensitivity on our part, also because there are many difficulties in facing people in the face of the architectural barriers that in some way mark their path. There are not only the architectural barriers facing people with motor disabilities, perhaps from birth or due to some specific pathology, but there are also the architectural barriers of the elderly; the architectural barriers of the serious pathologies that occur later; those of the people who, living alone, need a real facilitation in order to be able to move. Of all these, I quote one in particular, because it seemed absurd to me that the amendment that intervened in this regard was rejected. I'm talking about patients with cystic fibrosis. Now, ça va sans say that cystic fibrosis mainly concerns respiratory difficulties and, therefore, does not concern difficulty of movement; it affects, however, people who, having difficulty breathing, having a difficulty that accumulates over time, end up having problems to move. With our amendment we asked that patients with cystic fibrosis could enjoy those facilities, including - to give just one example, perhaps the simplest, the most immediate and obvious - wheelchairs in order to be able to move, that is, those facilities that concerned the possibility of accessing cars with facilitated driving systems. No attention has been paid in this context to measures which would objectively simplify the lives of such people. Furthermore, I do not want to avoid highlighting another type of difficulty that has not been taken into account in a draft law which is not only about simplification, but - as the title says - also about digital innovation. Some of the amendments that we had tabled, through digital innovation, would have allowed people with disabilities the simplest things, including the possibility of booking visits, accessing certain results, sending practices. Well, they've all been flunked. Yet, I assure you that they were born from a reflection shared with the associations of patients who asked for small interventions, that they would not have even had an economic cost that could object that there was no coverage. Moreover, for some of these measures we had also provided for a cover, which I repeat repeatedly, and I will probably also propose it again in the August Decree. In a decree-law that also intends to pay attention to fiscal policies one cannot fail to take into account that structural injustice whereby heated tobacco enjoys a tax relief ranging from 70% to 80%. This would be a significant and interesting economic revenue. Well, we do not understand why, in front of families that have a really heavy tax burden on their shoulders, there must be companies - in fact they are producers of pathology, not inducers of health - for which, instead, these benefits are taken for granted, as if they could be attributed to the theory of minor damage. There is no minor damage, but there is still greater damage, namely that the persons carrying any kind of handicap have not been taken into account in this decree-law, and it is serious. I want to make a further passage on Article 19, which concerns the university - as all people who have engaged in a particularly thorough study of this article know - and contains very interesting norms. It concerns - for example - the possibility, for those who are facing advanced studies, of seeing second level masters recognized almost as if they were equal to doctorates or even specializations that are acquired; it reserves a strong attention to the virtuous universities, which can give themselves models of organization and economic management far more autonomous. Article 19 is evidently thought of in the logic of university excellence, as well as in the logic of a possibility of interchange: let us think of a city like Rome, dramatically destined for the ruin for the poor management that concerns it, but that boasts the greatest number of universities in the world. Therefore, to aim - as also in this article in some way you can understand - for exchanges between teachers and their mobility means surely to make available the excellence of scientific competence to a greater number of students and also to become attractors for students who, from abroad, come to study in Rome. In front of this attention - undoubtedly the Minister, also thanks to his experience as past president of the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities (CRUI), wanted the president of CRUI to be in some way an integral part of the revision of the functional model of the National Agency for the Evaluation of the University System and Research (ANVUR) - we had made ourselves bearers in this case of two types of simplification, regarding the possibility of opening universities to new degree courses that reflect the changes existing in society. Having a particular eye on the current experience, which we have all gained, with the pandemic from Covid, we had thought of two types of skills. First, we thought we'd legitimize the preparation for music therapy. We have all experienced, during the period of lockdown and isolation, the power of music as dialogue, but also as a therapeutic factor and social cohesion. Yet, this graduation course is there that stands halfway between higher artistic education institutions and conservatives. Not all those who study at the conservatory will be the people who will go for concerts tomorrow, but we need the musical competence to be also of quality, from the point of view of health and well-being. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. The other degree course on which we also insisted, not being recognized in Italy, but already recognized in many European countries and in the United States, is that concerning osteopaths. We know the extent to which the immobility required by lockdown has led people to seek help. Obviously they did it through physiotherapists, but not everything is guaranteed by physiotherapy, and osteopathy is something similar, but distinct even if not distant. However, the proposals for these degree courses, which could have been simplified in the procedure, legitimacy and recognition, have been completely ignored. While the reform of the university aims to create levels that look more to the figure of teachers, to their mobility and to the excellence of the high schools, instead we do not look to the new emerging needs and therefore, in some way, we neglect those needs that come mainly from the base. With one last joke, I remember that very often the opposition was accused of obstructing. However, I would like to denounce loudly in this House the obstruction of the opposition by the majority. [[Applause]] It is not possible for an amendment to be adopted or even for an agenda to be accepted; it is not possible that there is not a single rule in the Commission that can be entrusted to the opposition, in the face of responsibilities - I am not talking about my own, but about those of my colleagues - documented and demonstrated. Mr President, the obstruction, at the limits of stalking, which the majority do against oppositions is no longer acceptable or digestible. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u39	Senator Binetti, on the other hand, the Presidency has given you more than two more minutes to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u40	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u41	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the simplification decree-law was for a long time announced by the Government, creating many expectations. On 16 July, on the other hand - I quote authoritative representatives of the Democratic Party - the mountain gave birth to a little mouse, a measure that satisfied some, but disappointed the expectations of many. [[Applause.]] The League has worked hard to improve it and to extend simplification. Just think of some of our proposals that have been approved, such as the extension of the rules unlocks contracts until the end of 2021 - even if we had asked until the whole 2023, but that's okay: it will mean that we will implement it when we are in government and this will happen soon [[Applause]] - measures to facilitate the entry into agriculture of young farmers; the removal of a contradiction in the legislation that has remained for over a year and, therefore, finally guarantee the incentives for photovoltaic plants to be implemented in closed landfills and spent quarries; the introduction of simpler measures for the verification and substitution of LPG tanks; the permission to identify areas for the capture and storage of CO2, a fundamental measure for the containment of carbon dioxide emissions for the fight against climate change, the extension of the extension of six months for the return of the tax benefit acquired with the so-called Tremonti environment of 2000 for the thousands of companies that, ten years later, have found themselves with the rules changed by the State - you with the last tax decree - that has declared those incentives not cumulative with those received in the energy account of 2010, 2011 and 2012. And more: make it easier and faster to rebuild in the crater of the earthquake of Central Italy, especially in the areas subject to constraint, finally giving another concrete response from the League to those communities. [[Applause.]] It will suffice a certified indication of the beginning of commercial activity (SCIA) building for the reconstructions of private buildings damaged, collapsed or demolished, without the obligation of special permissions. However, the measure was also a bit like Penelope's canvas; yes, because while the League worked with the center-right during the day to extend simplification, the majority, in many divided places, worked at night to reduce it and in many parts unfortunately they also succeeded. Just think of the substantial change - as I say too - to Article 10, where you have restricted too much on urban regeneration, and the involvement of trade unions for everything. The legal protocols must be signed with the unions. [[Applause]] Does the appointed Special Commissioner have to start public work? Halt: First it must be communicated to the unions. In short, to do everything, it is now written in law that the unions must be involved. Is it simplification or bureaucracy? Subjecting to the environmental impact assessment (EIA) the realization of direct current power lines with underground or marine cables is a technical madness. The result - and I am looking at my colleague, Mr Floris - is that the realization of the marine power line connecting Sardinia to Sicily, for example, is hindered and slowed down; not to mention the centralist arrogance against the territories of having torn the understanding between the Minister of the Environment and the regions concerned for the appointment of the president and the director of the national parks. From tomorrow the minister Costa will be able to choose a tern of own faithful and within thirty days, in the absence of understanding on the names with the Region, can proceed to the nomination. This is unacceptable, it is arrogant. [[Applause]] The balance sheet could get even worse if the League had not intervened to stop you. Suffice it to think of the aborted attempt to intervene with tense leg in order to demolish the regionalization of the managements of the great hydroelectric derivations, squeezing the territories to the advantage of the outgoing concessionaires; to the hallucinating proposal that the Single Document of contributory regularity (DURC) should include the verification of the adequacy of the incidence of the labor relative to the specific intervention. I repeat: specific intervention. Not only would you slow down public procurement, but you would also have drowned the superbonus that some problems already have of its own. Unfortunately, either for internal splits, or for ideological issues within the majority, the country lost the opportunity to carry out other measures that would allow investments in infrastructure and environmental, green economy and energy transition that - I stress - were precisely the premises that led to the necessity and urgency to issue the decree-law. I am referring to the rejection of transversal amendments, also of the Democratic Party, which would have accelerated the metanization of Sardinia, which is absolutely necessary also in the light of the phase out of the coal-fired power stations on the island, which at this point it will be impossible to shut down in 2025 - as those of the Movimento 5 Stars demand - and in the light of the unfortunate amendment - which I mentioned before - which imposes the environmental impact assessment on the marine electricity pipeline. Question: is this the way to support the energy companies present in the Region, such as alumina? Of course not. I am also referring to the rejection of simplification measures for the use of secondary solid fuel. It will mean that we will continue to have more rejection around and in cement plants, which are 27 in our country, we will continue to burn the petcoke, much more polluting. Bravo! Congratulations! [[Applause]] I am referring to the rejection of our proposal to promote research and development activities in the circular economy - it is not enough to discuss and talk about circular economy: it must be done in fact - to the rejection of the suspension of the moratorium for the search for hydrocarbons, condemning Italy, which already imports 93% of gas, to the energy dependence from abroad and geopolitical irrelevance, also and above all for the new positioning of Turkey in Libya, happened in the absolute silence of the Government and the Foreign Minister Di Maio. [[Applause]] The decision not to accept the suspension of the moratorium is irresponsible. It is clear that in this case the PD - I am thinking of Senator Collina, whom I do not see in the Chamber - has fallen into the blackmail of the Movimento 5 Stars and the hypocrisy, now widespread, that the energy transition can only be done with renewables. With the moratorium - of which I fear you will shortly make a further extension - you are sinking the entire Italian oil & gas sector, in particular that of Ravenna, already on your knees. Finally, it is a pity that we have not considered another important amendment of ours that would have simplified the tendering procedures for the gas distribution service: a situation of stalemate that has remained for almost ten years in the country, with several disputes in the tenders already banned, and that is preventing the realization of investments valued in 20 billion in the next twelve years for the modernization and the safety of the network, also for the benefit of the municipalities. I start with the conclusions, not before I thank all my colleagues in the majority and opposition for the great work they have done, the rapporteurs from Sudan and Garruti, the Presidents of the Parrini and Coltorti Commissions and the undersecretaries from Margiotta, Malpezzi and Castaldi. Well the presence of Minister D'Incà and some times of Minister Pisano; evil, very bad the total absence of Minister De Micheli, who more than others was involved in this measure. [[Applause]] The League, with healthy pragmatism and countering the ideology of the majority, which continues to harm the country, will continue to work in the sign of concreteness, starting from the re-submission in the August decree of our amendments that have been rejected, which we will defend with strong determination, because the country is in difficulty and needs it and we are, as League, at the service of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u43	After the intervention of Senator Arrigoni, as requested and agreed with the Leaders, I suspend the session, which will resume at 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.34 p.m. and resumed at 16.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u44	I inform the Assembly that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 83 of 30 July 2020 introducing urgent measures related to the expiry of the epidemiological emergency declaration by COOVID-19 deliberated on 31 January 2020" (2617).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u47	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I would also like to request, on behalf of my colleagues in the opposition, the League and Forza Italia, that they join my request, that today's afternoon be convened, presumably around 5.30 p.m., a new Conference of the Leaders, in order to have the confidence and certainty, if possible, of tomorrow's work. I say this without any controversy, but only in a spirit of practicality, because we want to prevent a situation of waiting throughout tomorrow's day, which - as we already mentioned yesterday in the debate - is an electoral campaign for all. Therefore, if there is a risk of staying here for a long time at undefined times or even unnecessarily, if we could have a feedback and greater certainty today, it would be useful for everyone for a matter of practicality and better organization of our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u48	Senator Rauti, we were both present at the Conference of Leaders held yesterday, in which the issue was addressed and reassurances were given on the progress of the work, confirmed then by the closure of the work in the Commission, albeit at dawn. Before starting today's sitting, we had confirmation of the government's maintenance of the roadmap. In any case, as we continue the general debate, I will also hear the Presidency, but I do not think there are any new elements to consider the timetable to be changed even in its time-scan, obviously remaining legitimate its concern. We have nothing to change the road map that has already been established, but your concern is absolutely reasonable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u49	We therefore continue the general discussion on the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 76 of 2020 on simplification. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the simplification decree is a huge measure, which takes place from the perspective of the post-Covid-19 economic recovery and certainly affects many aspects of citizens' lives. Certain aspects are clearly addressed with derogations in a short time frame: for example, the end of the suspension of part of the Procurement Code was set at 31 July 2021, then extended. However, these rules are time-consuming, and this is actually justified by the economic emergency situation. Other rules, on the other hand, ultimately affect laws of primary rank. That is why we have been faced with some articles that have been considered to be tough, because this probably should not have been the instrument with which to deal with such particular and delicate topics in a definitive way. As far as the Environment Commission is concerned, we have been interested in over 17 articles. However, the examination of the draft law has not been assigned to the Commission. However, this was very burdensome for the members of the Commission, who had to take part in the work as guests, who were clearly active but also marginal. With regard to the environmental issue of citizens' participation in the environmental impact assessment and the process of reclamation, we received feedback from the Parliamentary Assembly, which wanted to hear the vision of a large part of the Members, in a cross-cutting way, who did not represent the majority. I must therefore acknowledge, for this reason and for Article 10, which substantially amends the Single Text on Construction (Decree of the President of the Republic No 380 of 2001), a large-scale parliamentary work that is not always seen in these classrooms. It has therefore been possible to combine very different points of view at the start. With regard to the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic n. 380, on which I shall dwell, I must say that there has been some improvement in the instrument: there are many simplifications that are laid down with regard to the procedures, with the declared aim of the recovery and redevelopment of the existing building stock. This clearly, with a view to building regeneration that moves the investment in the sector from land consumption to the recovery of the building heritage, is extremely important and we have shared the ratio. Clearly, for two and a half years there had been a bill in the Environment Commission which was dealing with this in a very systematic way, with more than eighty hours of hearing. That's why at first we found the measure a little invasive. What must be clear to everyone, and it is important to know, is that it is necessary to put hand to the bad building of the seventies and eighties that, from the energy point of view, poses itself as a colabrodo. It is a building prior to the anti-seismic standards and therefore, from this point of view too, it is absolutely inadequate, as it is very often inadequate also from the structural point of view. Requalification of these areas is therefore absolutely necessary and indispensable, and it is therefore necessary to create incentives and simplifications in procedures. The balance between this and the management of the territory through the tools of urban planning, which - we must remember - is a social science of primary importance for the common good and to safeguard the rights of citizens, is difficult to find. It is difficult, in fact, to balance the speed of these processes and the protection of these rights. Town planning has always foreseen the so-called implementation plans to be able to carry out works but over time, in a neoliberal vision and of great consumption of the territory, we ended up giving up these projects in favour of a so-called contracted urban planning that has given bad examples in Italy, creating a very bad architectural culture and a management of the agencies and also of those who have operated. In this regard we must tighten the seam point, which does not mean changing the planes where there are. Regional and territorial plans - as has been said - remain firm and no one will be forced to change them. We have simply talked about the historical centers and areas of particular historical value - I do not say artistic and, therefore, I do not refer to the tied buildings - that is, that stratification of our experience that is why from abroad tourists come to Italy and not only go to the beach, or to Palazzo Pitti or to the large museums, but turn for our places of identity. I would remind you that a few weeks ago the Government made an important commitment which has been confirmed. I am referring to the motion on historic centres, which is extremely important. I also recall all the derogations made, starting with Law No 1444 of 1968 which defines urban standards, which are then citizens' rights, air rights, in the light, to have a certain dimension of things related to the number of citizens, and therefore also roads, greenery and schools. Everything about urban standards is about citizens' rights. It begins, therefore, with a derogation from Law No. 1444 on the width of the lot, regardless of the area of sediment, but also in height. This means that, by way of derogation for the width, not only will I find myself increasing the height and therefore decreasing the beam of light that leads to the houses, but I will also have volumetric increases. All this will happen without needing anything more than a SCIA, but in the historic centers it will happen with recovery plans. Such plans exist and are the closest thing to the urban regeneration plans that we all fill our mouths with. Urban regeneration is carried out with recovery plans, without prejudice to existing regional plans, because clearly no one must be forced to redo the plans. Therefore, the building renovation, which is carried out with a simple SCIA and allows to no longer maintain the silhouette in the demolition and reconstruction, to no longer maintain the sediment, to no longer maintain the prospects, to no longer maintain the planovolometric and constructive characteristics - I repeat, with a simple SCIA, therefore with the sole responsibility of the technician that certifies and not with the administrative body that represents all of us - can be done also in the historical centers, but within a recovery plan, or with a request for permission to build. We also need to know that this is the case with the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 2020, which declared volumetric increases and changes in the area of sediment inadmissible. To adapt nationally to the home floors we have made these changes, but it's good for all other areas. I'm glad, because we're going to retrain the outskirts. I want to point out that so much has been done in this measure, because the permission to build by way of derogation has been extended, linking it to the regeneration and the containment of the consumption of the soil; an extension has been given to the expiration of the permits to build, because rightly the Covid has created problems for us; some contributions have been given and others reduced, like - for example - those for urban regeneration, rightly; those constructive tolerances are considered lawful for the small discrepancies and also for the ascertainment of the legitimate state of the buildings, especially for those before 1967 that may actually not have a title, while today can also be made legitimate by cadastral information, photographic and cartographic research of archive. Therefore, simplification in construction has been done - well come - but the protection of our heritage has been inscribed. There is also an amendment, if I may, President... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I really must beg you to conclude. Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Okay. Then I can conclude by saying that other instruments have also been introduced with amendments. I am referring, for example, to Senator Collina's amendment, which provides for a very agile instrument that can quickly implement social infrastructure through public bodies. So let's not stop anything, but rather give a huge push on the accelerator to do the energy redevelopment, without losing anything of our cultural heritage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u51	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, this morning a national newspaper headlined a fund: It's a missed opportunity. The title of the simplification decree is roboating. It simplifies what all political parties, regardless of their membership, even in the common confrontation with citizens, say that our system is complicated. Alas, a missed opportunity is a bad signal. Mr Undersecretary, you must be given competence and attention, as well as your commitment to trying to bring together the myriad of amendments. You spoke of a majority that you held, but, in fact, it must be said that this was the simplification decree of what are the procedures of the state, of what are the procedures of the local authorities, of what is the system of the relations of the state with the citizens also as a result of the discomfort and disaster of the pandemic. It wasn't an effort test before the race. It was not a test of effort of those who the next day have to participate in the race or go for fifteen days in the mountains and want to try if the heart holds. Actually, there had to be the act of action there. But 1,500 amendments by the majority lead us to a question: does the majority still believe in their government and its design or does it no longer share their action? It's probably true. In fact, the debate, also within the Commission, was marked by confrontations and also by clashes within the majority between the various positions and amendments. All of this has happened while 8 million workers are in cash-integration, entire sectors are still standing still and while the opening of schools is becoming an obstacle course. It's like we discovered yesterday, as a country, that over 10 million kids have to go back to school. The government has tried to buffer: certainly, with a sum of micro norms, some also shareable and appreciable on the long list of interventions. I would like to mention the correction of the criminal issue with regard to abuse, or I appreciate the reasoning set out in Article 10. It is a question of assessing whether the original text or the current text was better, but it certainly is a step forward that may be important. The same applies to special rules on contracts. We are, however, in the presence of rules and derogations in time. It is a catch that, of course, the present do not work. Why, though, time-based rules if the current ones do not work? With regard to time rules, then, we all often mention the question of the Genoa bridge, but that is not a question of time rules. That was a reconstruction on the same site and Mr Sfafeteria is well aware that the concept is not translatable on another issue. We know that. They are, however, rules in pieces, because, unfortunately, there is no unitary plan on the part of the Government about what is wrong and where you want to get. This decree had to prepare the plan, together with the August decree and, in fact, prepare our country to share, allowing, in their respective roles, also the confrontation between majority and opposition; a confrontation that had to be broad on all issues, to put us also in the condition of the use of the availability that the European Union grants us. I would like to remind you that the European Union's multi-annual financial framework brings us to 39 million, which, with co-financing, will be from 75 million to 80 million. Again: there is SURE, with a demand of 27 and a half billion, although the 27 and a half billion SURE are perhaps the most emergency part and not of future investment. The ESM, for the political part to which I belong, is one of the issues to be addressed in order to modernise our health system and make it at the forefront. It represents the great opportunity: the recovery fund with the 10-percent plan to be presented by mid-October. It's massive numbers. It's a great opportunity. Having taught for several years, even without administration, the so-called PERT diagram meant telling the kids to line up the dates. And then you realize that for investments, despite simplification, if you put in line the dates of legal times and technical times (the technical times are those necessary to make the project; the legal times are those necessary for the approval, for the opinion of the environmental goods, for the opinion of the superintendence) even at the minimum, at 31 December 2021, where some of the provisionalities have been established, we are not ready with almost anything, because we are not. The assessment to be made, therefore, is also about the timing, the date. With this decree simplifications, we have missed the opportunity to equip our country, and therefore the public system - with consequences on the private - with the appropriate tools to intervene. Among other things, the measure had to correct the bureaucracy and it is actually written a lot in bureaucratism. So, it's a bureaucratic catch to correct a bureaucratic blockade of the country. I can think of the civil code: it entered into force - as our Vice President, who is a lawyer, is well aware - on 1 January 1942, and it was written in 1940-41, so in the middle of the war years. Go read it and you'll see what you can read, as you can read it. Anyone can read it. Simplification also meant starting from this measure to arrive at a path of that kind and simplification means precisely going on the sequence of acts. In an audition, one of the auditioners told us that the question is that of races: if in Italy it takes ten years to start a public work, not the times of the races, but the times of the whole procedure are pharaonic. We are at the multiplication of opinions, which are then called opinions in legal language, but many times they are opinions. Finally, I would just like to mention that the opportunity has also been missed in relation to another issue, and I say this to the majority, or to a part of it: governing also means having to acknowledge that there is not always coincidence between the idea, the action and the result of the action. To talk about agriculture, we are in autumn, harvest and harvest time, which in Italy this season occupies from million to one and a half million workers with fixed-term contracts or vouchers, workers - choose the term you think most appropriate - precarious. There are so-called ancillary work contracts. Well, try going to the INPS website to make an accessory work contract. I invite those who are more practical than me to do so. I struggle and admit it, but on the other hand, having no more immigrants - there is another issue here - we must fill up this type of workers and we can give an opportunity to many of our workers, from those who are most willing to work, to those who are unemployed and looking for work. Then there is a whole social belt that - alas - we do not insert into the model schemes, but that is a social belt that counts on that and counted on it. When there were paper vouchers - I am in favour of technology and, therefore, we go on that front - they went the next day to cash them. Then probably in some cases, unfortunately, they drank it all the same night, but now they have to wait the next month. Simplification also means confrontation with reality. I believe the oppositions have made a complete confrontation available. I am referring to the political force to which I belong both to the other opposition forces. The government did not accept it completely, because it was very engaged in the discussion and in resolving the issues of the majority. We will have the August decree, but we really have to prepare for the autumn for a reform of the country. As opposition we are there and we will make our contribution. The Government and the majority declare themselves at least willing to discuss it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u53	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to thank you and your fellow senators and, in particular, those who followed the measure. I also thank the Offices of the various Commissions for the work that has been done and that the Commissions 1a and 8a have then gathered and structured in what has been possible to grant and grant among the majority forces. A thank you goes then to the Undersecretaries, always attentive and present, but whose silence was a deafening evidence of the fact that this Government is a forcing tied only to the armchairs. [[Applause]] The most excited thanks go to the members of the League, always present, unlike the colleagues who sit on the benches before me and who - as well as in the Commission - continue to be often empty: this is the answer to a simplification decree in which you believe. [[Applause]] The League with responsibility has perfected and tried to avoid the adoption of dangerous and unnecessary amendments for citizens; indeed, the antagonism, presumption and unpreparedness of the majority in many cases have led to many of our amendments, so the simplification decree has actually turned into a complicated decree, as evidenced by the probable demand for trust that you will go to submit. Yet, the intention was hoped for by all categories and audit professionals: for them too, such an important decree should not be merely legal. Investment is needed to simplify and save time and money. We cannot regulate and plan without qualitative and quantitative investments in structures and personnel because - as is the case in some areas today - there are computers, but there is no signal. It's like wanting to play soccer without the ball. However, you rejected a number of amendments which solved these problems. There are no articles that create investments within the municipalities, in professionalism and meritocracy and, if the social and technical distances are not filled, there will be more and more complications. Let's learn, for example, from the 1960s, when Alberto Manzi was conducting the transmission "It's never too late", a simple method to alphabetize a people who wanted to know how to read and write. Today Italy is still and invests little: according to the digital quality of life index we are forty-one for the quality of the connection to the Network and fifty-fourth for digital infrastructures and, if you do not optimize the calls by the fourth quarter 2020, that is today, we risk losing funds on the digital innovation hub European: it is about 9,2 billion euros from 2021 to 2027 to simplify precisely the challenges on digital. Our public administrations still employ servers whose interoperability and economic and temporal savings are foreclosed, if not in the cloud. Investment and amendments in this regard no one, but new rules, new obligations and responsibilities, yes, you put them. On the other hand, if it is not for you to simplify it is to invest on staff, but to recommend unsuspecting inhabitants - perhaps schoolmates - who find themselves in the Ministries without knowing it [[Applause]] ; or, again, whether to simplify for you is to tell the restaurateurs to try to change jobs and not propose vouchers and tell VAT matches that they are not worse than others and do not propose flat tax; or, if simplify for you is to say: If I had studied, I would also be a starved person, even if I were a notary and not propose meritocracy, well, from the decree simplifications could not be expected more. In any case, not only did you not want to listen to us, but also to AGID (Agenzia per l'Italia digitale), so there is no funding for the management of IPA lists (index of public administrations) and INAD (index of digital homes of natural persons, professionals and other private law entities not required to register in books, lists or professional registers or in the register of companies). For the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), mayors should be the special commissioners, to accelerate contracts and strategic works on their territory, and there is no zero cost for a digital transformation. For the National Association of Small Municipalities of Italy (ANPCI), in the municipal offices there is little staff and where the mayor is also sole responsible for the procedure (RUP) would work with a sword of Damocles on the head. [[Applause]] For Confagricoltura we need standard modules between municipalities and regions, coordinated with the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy (MIPAAF). We must defend Italian products, but instead we have found some amendments that simplify foreign products: we have blocked them, colleagues, and we have also explained them to you. For the Union Provinces of Italy (UPI), despite the fragile budgets and the shortage of staff, there is still demand and in the Provinces there is absolutely no digital promotion of public administration. For the WWF the quality of the work is a comparison for the quality of the built: it is true and therefore it is necessary to fight against undeclared work and its control. We now know that the government's line is to reward the illegals and heal those who work in black, perhaps with a citizenship income in their pockets. Where are simplification and job creation? [[Applause]] Also in the decree-law at our examination there is the conditioning of the prior agreement with the major trade union acronyms, to complicate the working potential. I want to understand, the next time a small party complains, why small trade union acronyms are never included, as in this case too. Simplifying does not mean squeezing, to claim to find the quirk and to fine families and small and medium-sized enterprises. Instead, it is necessary to fill the waste, waste and inefficiencies of the public administration, which are worth twice the tax evasion: EUR 200 billion compared to EUR 100 billion per year. The League has shown maturity, loyalty, a sense of duty and a collaboration of undoubted willingness to write a decree that really simplifies, and it has amended with a concrete attention to the earthquake communities and to the disabled, although strangely they have been cashed out of amendments, which I hope will be accepted on an agenda. We have made a clear contribution and we have wanted it with force and without asking for or demanding anything. Our amendments are formulated and we defend them because they are born from the street, among people, in listening to people and holding hands with them. As for this Government, we knew that the only simplification was not to complicate the way to stay attached to the armchairs, but I invite you to structure the articles of the next August decree coming out of the rooms of the palaces, because Italy does not tolerate and no longer deserves your games and your unmerited claims. The League is and will always be there, for the sake of our children, today in opposition, but soon - very soon - to the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rotolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u56	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor because, in recent days, with colleagues from the 1st and 8th standing committees, we have worked together on the simplification decree, with almost 2,800 amendments, more than 1,000 amending proposals considered inadmissible and sitting at night, to wait for the views of the ministries concerned. In the end, we have done it, with enormous work, for a measure, defined by the President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, as a true cultural revolution for public administration, which can operate in a regime of greater legal certainty and with an increasingly result-oriented perspective. Did we do that? Do we have a revolutionary decree to pass in this House? We still need to be fully aware that we have succeeded, with the adoption of the amendments, in improving the text of the Decree-Law. We all know that the real revolution in public administration would be the recruitment of staff, the ageing of bureaucracy and digitalisation, which constitutes a very qualifying part of the measure under our scrutiny. I think, however, that, compared to what happened in the Senate, the decree-law has been improved. Certainly we were wearing the tile of Article 81 of the Constitution, for which important amendments have been rejected for us, because what at first sight may seem a cost, in fact, is often an investment. It is therefore necessary to do quickly, which does not mean "free" all of them. The analysis of the Bank of Italy tells us that the average times of the entire cycle of realization of the public works considered are estimated in about 4.9 years. The design phase has a median duration of about 2.1 years, but the decree-law accelerates the times of the contractor's selection phase, through the provision of maximum time limits for the conduct of procedures, well below those currently recorded by most contracting stations: two months for direct custody, four for negotiated procedure under threshold and six for procedures above threshold. Race times would affect only about 10 percent, while - as you have seen - far longer is the duration of the design and execution phases. We need to start again, but that ridge on which we have moved - acceleration of times and derogations - cannot and must not be interpreted as a free all. It is therefore central to the issue of controls, especially those of legality. John Falcone said "Follow the money and you'll find the mob." Let me be clear: I do not want to be misunderstood by this quote. We need public resources and money to get out of the health and economic lockdown, but Giovanni Falcone tells us something current: attention, the only purpose of criminal organizations is to make illegal money, infiltrating also the legal economy. That is why we stressed the importance of Article 3 of the decree-law, that of anti-mafia checks and the protocols of legality. The bet was as follows: is it possible to speed up the lead time, without running the risk of Mafia companies participating in the award of contracts? In the last report of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate (DIA), it is said that the field of public procurement, fundamental for the revival of the national economy, will see investments that will hopefully affect the entire national territory, up to the municipal level. Criminal organisations could therefore take advantage of the new funding channels and the funds that will be earmarked for the realization and enhancement of works and infrastructures, including digital ones, the road network, hydrogeological risk containment works, telematic networks, the necessary works for a general conversion to the green economy and the whole so-called cement cycle. At the general level, however, there must be a radical attempt to simplify the procedures for relying on all public procurement and services, which are necessary for the rapid allocation of resources. This calls for investigators and magistrates who deal with criminal organizations of our country: speeding up assignments, greater transparency, protection of competition, guarantee of inviolability and secrecy of offers, traceability of tender operations, continuous monitoring of the contract and, not least, greater control for anti-mafia purposes. There are so many derogations in the measure, some even excessive. We have to say that, also because, colleagues, I feel around the perception that all in all there is no longer a mafia emergency and that some areas of our country have already freed themselves from the evil. There is no point in citing anti-mafia interdicts and judicial investigations that have shown that even in the North-Centre of the country there is an endemic presence of the mafias, those of white collars. You get in touch with the small entrepreneur, you lend money to strozzo - with the emergency Covid a risk more than concrete - you find the company and dissolve municipal councils and health companies in the South and North of the country, also in Valle d'Aosta. This year we had 51 local authorities dissolved for mafia, the highest figure since 1991. I mean that you cannot and must not lower your guard: let's simplify everything you want - we agree - but we need to raise the levels of quality of controls, because we need these to be quick and effective and do not waste time. There was one of the amendments to Article 3 to which some of us were very keen, on 3.6, which we had to turn into an agenda, signed by myself, Senator De Petris, Senators Errani and Grasso and also Senator Franco Mirabelli. We did so because otherwise it would have involved additional burdens and above all the risk of causing a delay, rather than a speeding-up, compared to a procedure already initiated, in particular to the MIT (Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport), and on which the Undersecretary Margiotta in the Joint Commissions assured the commitment of the whole Government (which I thank him for here in the Chamber). The agenda concerns the central issue of legality checks. The national database of economic operators, to be established pursuant to Article 81 of the Code of Public Contracts, referred to in Legislative Decree No 50 of 18 April 2016, would be an extraordinary tool for simplification and transparency, to be used in order to prove that the requirements of a general, technical, professional and economic-financial nature for participation in tendering procedures, both in the stage of participation and in the stage of execution of the works. In the amendment, we intended to immediately create such a means of achieving the qualitative leap of control, which is essential in the context of simplifying procedures. We know that this database is not immediately operational, but it would be essential to provide the ORs with a tool containing all the necessary information. The node is all here: we have to make it operational. In the code of contracts - said the undersecretary Margiotta - the instrument is previewed but, being in the straight of arrival, would have risked, approving the amendment, having to start from scratch, almost like in a game of the goose. Here is the meaning of this agenda: not a new article of law, but the commitment of the Government to speed up the time to make it operational. I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President. It is clear to everyone that there are still enormous problems that are still open. For example, because of the turnover block, public administrations lack the professionalism necessary for the preparation and evaluation of projects; therefore, we should proceed to an extraordinary plan of recruitment, perhaps imagining a regulatory intervention in the August decree, which the Senate will have to examine in the next few days. A reform of public administration, recruitment of staff, the entry of young people with skills capable of ensuring the management of tenders and widespread technological innovation are needed. Only when assumptions and innovations are realized will we be able to proceed to that cultural revolution in the public administration desired by President Conte. I am convinced that the work of the Joint Commissions has improved the text of the Decree-Law under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u57	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u58	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, this is the classic speech in which one had imagined saying a few things, but, after hearing the speeches of colleagues, perhaps motivated and authoritative, but not at all acceptable - I am referring to those who sit among the majority benches - he decided no longer to follow that ladder. For several weeks I have been away from this House, not on the beach, but among the people, on the territory, acting as mayor and election campaign. I've regenerated. Then I come here and realize that, in fact, the climate of mistrust on the part of people towards certain policies is more than justified. I feel like I'm not in the Senate, but on Mars: there's an Italy out of here, healthy, that suffered during the health emergency, that has always worked and gave resources and support to the State, that awaits concrete and fast answers from this Government. [[Applause]] I understand that a great oratory art is being done, but there are very few of them in fact. Since I took office as a senator and when, at the beginning, I was part of the 8th Commission, I hear about what should be one of the priorities of any government in normal times and not of post-pandemic. I am referring to the streamlining of technical and administrative procedures and the cancellation of the procurement code. In the end, we always find ourselves faced with the fear that all Italians are mobsters, we stop, because we think maybe that everyone is led to steal and not to do the good of Italy. I think it is the opposite: for the vast majority the mayors are decent people, as is the vast majority of officials. The Government and Parliament do their part and give the right tools to this Italy so that it can proceed properly and quickly. ( [[Applause).]] With respect to this decree-law, I start from two certainties: one beautiful and positive and another depressing. The beautiful and positive is that the League, for the umpteenth time, has done its duty and has shown that it loves Italy and the Italians. I thank all my colleagues who have worked in the Commission and have worked hard for constructive work, so much so that as many as 37 amendments - if I am not mistaken - have passed away. This means that they were correct and definitely worthy of attention. It has improved the text under consideration and has shown that they are not in the slogans, but also and above all in the facts "First the Italians" is an ethical code that we must respect in every assembly. This is the beautiful aspect, the positive certainty that we record. The depressing aspect is that the decree simplifications is worth nothing, it is disappointing. Many leading figures - not here, but in the secret rooms - said that the mountain gave birth to a mouse. It is certainly not a courageous measure, which does not take account of the situation we are leaving. All those who have objective, technical and scientific data - therefore, they know more than I do - say that soon we will have the most difficult moment: in autumn, greater suffering will knock at the doors of the dignified and proud Italians who have always worked and given work. It is a greedy measure, which neither simplifies nor accelerates anything. That is the truth we are comparing ourselves to. Do we want to talk about bureaucracy? Maybe it is true that, from some points of view, it retouchs something for the better, but on the environmental side it weighs even more the procedures. Do we want to talk about transparency? Dear friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, you have forgotten the importance of the territory; you have deleted the voice of the territory, abolishing until 2023 the listening of the people regarding important infrastructural works. [[Applause.]] There is no talk of taxes and nothing that can affect immediately with respect to the well-being and the future of Italians. There is a coincidence, but I do not know if it is really such: in the same Council of Ministers in which this decree-law is issued, the Government will also launch the National Reform Plan (PNR), within which there is a series of lists of important works also infrastructure that the previous Government has considered. A work dear to me, which the Undersecretary Margiotta knows very well, is considered a priority even since 2001. It should be what was defined in June 2020 as fast Italy, but with these decree-laws that will become laws we will certainly not have a fast Italy. The works no longer list themselves, but they are done, especially where there is a shortage of them. I want to give you a concrete example of infrastructure. The famous Salerno-Potenza-Bari, an important cross that helps three Regions (Campania, Basilicata and Puglia), during the first Conte Government, thanks to the undersecretaries of the Rixi and Siri League, has made important progress. It has removed doubts about any type of route, and I quote only one: it has allowed the feasibility study to be carried out. What do we do now? We must bring back everywhere, starting with Europe, the pride of this Italy, which wants resources and must do infrastructure work. ( [[Applause).]] Doing infrastructure works - I repeat - especially where there are none - and unfortunately there are no infrastructure works in my area - means giving hope to those territories, attracting investors and having the opportunity to create jobs. All this must be done in a context in which the monster of the Italian public administration, that is the bureaucracy, is finally and truly destroyed. [[Applause]] There is a part of Italian politics, the one sitting in the benches on the left, which continues to float, despite the ugly torment that we have lived in the periods of lockdown and that maybe it is not yet finished, to the point that it is not yet able to tell us what the Italian school will do. [[Applause]] There is another part of politics that comes from the territory and returns to us, breathes commonly with all Italians and requires courage and vision. This is the path to which we must not give up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u59	Senator Anastasi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the simplification decree that we are about to vote adds an important piece to the work that the Government is doing to support the Italian economy, which has been severely tested by the negative effects of the pandemic by Covid-19. In this decree-law are collected the many instances that the social partners and enterprises have submitted to President Conte, to the Ministers and to the General States of the economy last June; General states that some political force in this House has deliberately deserted, except today to claim the possibility of making proposals. With this decree-law we will finally have rapid administrative procedures, simple and digitized and yards finally unlocked, thanks to procedures more streamlined also in the custody of the contracts, guaranteeing always garrisons of legality against organized crime. From this point of view, in fact, Article 10 of the decree is inserted which gives new impetus to the construction sector, in these years strongly tested by the unfavourable economic situation. With a series of changes to the Single Building Text for the simplification of administrative procedures, it ensures the recovery and upgrading of existing building assets and the development of urban regeneration processes. The measures provided for in Article 10 will also have an impact on employment in related sectors, such as ceramics, wood, installations, windows and many others, without increasing soil consumption and facilitating renovation, extraordinary maintenance, demolition and reconstruction. All these interventions will be particularly incisive, because they are thought of alongside the maxi-tax facility of the superbonus to 110 percent: a revolutionary measure for the construction of the renovations that - let me say - only with the Movimento 5 Stars to the government could have been realized. As part of the measures put in place by this majority to ensure sustainable development and for the security of the country, I would like to stress, Mr President, the important measures on environmental simplification contained in the decree-law. Well, some changes are introduced in our system for the simplification of environmental impact assessment processes, accelerating the authorisation procedures mainly through a reduction of the anticipated deadlines and the creation of a specific discipline for the environmental assessment in the state of the projects necessary for the implementation of the Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate. We also favour the expansion of renewable energies, improving and simplifying the rule on photovoltaics in place of asbestos, simplifying the permits for large capacity electrochemical accumulations, which will be increasingly needed in this near future, simplifying also the recovery of abandoned areas, such as quarries and landfills, to install renewable energy plants. In order to ensure and re-launch the measures to implement or modify existing road, motorway, rail and water infrastructure, the Decree-Law extends the duration of environmental and landscape permits. In addition, it simplifies the procedures for intervention against hydrogeological failure and those for interventions and works in the sites being reclaimed. With regard to the simplification of the rules for the realization of points and charging stations of electric vehicles - the theme, that of electrification of transport and movement, on which we have been working for years, before with proposals and today, to the Government, with concrete measures - there is no doubt that the electrification would derive considerable benefits for the environment, but above all a decided improvement of the living conditions in the big cities, thanks to the reduction of harmful emissions. For these reasons, in the measure we have provided for measures that will facilitate the installation of charging columns, both in public areas, accessible to all, and in private areas, to encourage the use of electric vehicles. Finally, I would like to reserve it to an agenda approved as a recommendation, which concerns the issue of the public car register. Its abolition in all the simplification and spending review forums has been mentioned for years, but it is still not possible to eliminate a residual, dating back to the time of the fascist twenty years, which is not equal in any other state in the world, as it is useless and expensive duplication of civil motorization. The hope is that in this legislature we can find the will and the way to overcome this long story, simplifying and efficienting our bureaucratic machine. After years of governments that have deceived the Italians with promises of sburocratization, digitization and simplification, we are being able, with seriousness, in the enterprise to put us in step with other European countries, slimming down important administrative procedures, so that, thanks to this decree, which represents a real relaunch of our nation, Italy can return to being a competitive country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u62	Mr President, I would like to focus my speech on Article 23 of Decree-Law No 76, which, in a very surprising way, without any prior debate, without any parliamentary discussion, amends an important article of the Criminal Code. It is an extraordinary fact, also in view of the abuse of the decree-law that this Government is doing day after day. Moreover, this is a change on which the question of trust will even be raised. To amend a substantive rule of the penal code by this procedure is really within the limits of unconstitutionality. Let's talk about office abuse. I say this for colleagues who have not done legal studies: the abuse of office is the crime of the public official or public service officer who, in the performance of his duties, in violation of rules of law or regulation, or in conflict of interest, intentionally - I stress - gives to himself or to others an unjust asset advantage or causes to others unfair damage. This rule essentially protects the good performance and impartiality of public administration. In the new wording introduced (and it is already law) with the decree-law in question, the norm is changed, so much so that from many parts now we speak of a ghost crime, substantially depotent and repealed, because, in place of the violation of law or regulation rules, we speak of specific rules of conduct, expressly provided for by law (disappear the regulation) or by acts having force of law. What is the aim of this change? Clearly it aims to exclude, among other things - then we will talk about the elimination of regulations - the punishableness of the so-called misuse of power, that is, the most serious cases that are found in practice. Dear colleagues, the principle of administrative legality finds its foundation not only in Articles 3 and 97 of the Constitution, but also in numerous provisions of ordinary law, which require - for example - public employees to conform their conduct to the principles of good conduct and impartiality of administrative action and to carry out their tasks in compliance with the law, pursuing the public interest without abusing positions and powers (Article 3, paragraph 1, of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 62 of 2013) and the administrators of local authorities to maintain, in the performance of their duties, a behaviour based on impartiality and the principle of good administration (Article 78, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree n. 267 of 2000). And they still require civil servants of the State and employees of public bodies respectively to take care with diligence and in the best way the interest of the administration for the public good (Article 13, paragraph 1, of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 3 of 1957) and to lend their work with diligence, decorum and zeal (Article 8, paragraph 1, of Law No. 70 of 1975). It is also prescribed that administrative activity pursues the aims determined by law and is governed by criteria of economicity, effectiveness and impartiality (Article 1 of Law No 241 of 1990) and that the public prosecutor shall watch the observance of laws, the prompt and regular administration of justice, the protection of the rights of the State, legal persons and persons unable to act (Article 73 of Royal Decree No 12 of 1941). These are all rules which, by transposing and specifying the principle of good conduct and impartiality of public administration, give rise to the punishable use of office abuse not only when the conduct is contrary to the rules governing the exercise of power, but also when the conducts are directed to the realization of an interest colliding with that for which the power is conferred, so-called diversion of power or function, which then - as I said - is often the most serious cases, those in which people aim at the sole and exclusive realization of a private interest obviously contrary to the law. When, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, will all these rules also be repealed? [[Applause]] This is what you aim at with the reform of Article 323. Moreover, the reform also excludes regulations from the rules whose violation can supplement the abuse of office, limiting the punishable - as I said before - only to violations of law or of an act having the force of law; illogical and incomprehensible limitation, because the regulation is a legislative act. Regulations are legislative acts of public law, which impose general and abstract rules of conduct, exactly as a law; they are sources of law and are part of the legal order. To the regulations apply the principle iura novit curia - for example - or what ignorance of the law does not excuse. They are published legally in the Official Journal or in the Official Bulletin of the Region (BUR) or, for local regulations, in the Registers. And there is no risk of a so-called formalisation of the crime that can make criminality important also the violation of obligations of a procedural nature, because precisely it prevents you the intention of the event, the intentional maliciousness of the asset advantage of the agent, unjust, or the unjust damage done to third parties. So why are you acting in this way abnormally on such an important rule that it protects the impartiality and good performance of public administration? Who do you want to save, colleagues of the majority? Do you want to save any mayors on trial for public abuse? Think about it: Minister Bonafede and Undersecretary Ferraresi, in the last parliamentary term, presented a proposal to further aggravate the sanctions for those who commit this crime and today, instead, they subscribe and vote on the confidence on a decree-law that effectively cancels the abuse of office. Who do you want to save, PD colleagues? Who do you want to save, co-workers of the 5 Stars? Honestness, honesty, where has transparency gone? Where'd she go? I believe that today, even with this change, you once again demonstrate your true face. Drop the mask: your double morale is now before everyone's eyes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u64	Mr President, simplifications in the field of public contracts and construction; procedural simplifications and responsibilities; simplification measures for the support and dissemination of digital administration; simplifications in the field of business activities, environment and green economy; these are the main issues covered by the simplification decree-law. It intervenes in a phase in which the country is still experiencing serious social and economic repercussions due to the pandemic and, precisely for this reason, marks a new phase of the response that the institutions are called to give to the pandemic crisis. As the rapporteur for this measure, Mrs Valeria Sudano, said yesterday, with this regulatory intervention we are moving from the phase of the necessary response to the emergency to that of restart, that is, at the time when we are called to offer the country the tools to return to look back to the future with optimism. The pandemic crisis has highlighted even more fragility and criticality that afflict our economic system, the relationship between public administrations and citizens, the competitive capacity of companies and the overall capacity of the country. On these delicate and important elements, the text under discussion, which starts from an important assumption: Italy needs a jolt to revive the economy, freeing resources and productive energies from the grip of a bureaucracy that is too often cumbersome, suffocating and without courage. It is a theme that Italy Viva has been supporting with conviction and determination since its foundation. This healthy shock wants to unlock the infrastructure that territories and communities have long needed to return to grow and improve the quality of life and competitiveness of the country. The measure we are about to vote on is in this direction: to break the tangle of useless procedures, old or anachronistic norms and overlaps of competences that have slowed down the growth potential of our country and that today, in the dramatic moment we live, constitute an unacceptable ballast that hinders the need for economic recovery and employment. The Decree-Law simplifications certainly does not solve all the problems of the country and does not exhaust the need for revision of the norms, of unblocking of yards and of correct harmony between the requirements of legality and transparency with those of development, without forgetting certainly those of the protection of the environment, but represents a strong and significant first step in the right direction. The legislative text, moreover, dedicates the first ten articles to the modification and simplification of procedures related to public investments, intervening on critical aspects known for a long time both to the central institutions of the country and to the territories, where the laces and laces that have prevented financed works from being realized are negatively downloaded. The unnecessary complexity of some procedures and the lack of clarity of the rules that has fostered the interpretative uncertainty - in turn, has fueled an excessive recourse to administrative judges - have cast the system, preventing the real protection of the public interest, which then also translates into the right of citizens to see realized investments useful to improve the quality of life in our cities and our territories. The decree-law under discussion provides, on the one hand, for the necessary measures to unblock numerous and important works already can be done and, on the other hand, for the introduction of a different approach which, in full respect of legality and transparency, makes the managers of public administrations responsible for the procedures that are being started, in order to conclude them correctly and in defined times. It is also a significant step in cultural terms, which leads to subverting the peaceful and consolidated dynamics of fulfillment in order to go in the direction of objectives. Only in this way can we give adequate answers to the needs of our country. The measure contains important provisions on the erarial and criminal liability of civil servants. Interpretative uncertainty about the rules often leads to fear of going into proceedings before the Court of Auditors and this hampers administrative processes. In parallel to the attention given to public investments, the decree-law devotes attention and care also to the dynamics of private investments, wanting to ensure certain times and transparent procedures, without sacrificing the necessary needs of conservation of the landscape and the cultural and environmental heritage of our country. The redevelopment and regeneration of the existing building fabric is an opportunity to be seized, also in view of the growing and healthy attention given to the issue of reducing soil consumption. The decree does not introduce new institutions or procedures. In fact, it simplifies and strengthens the existing administrative procedures: from silent assent to procedural deadlines, which are appropriately enhanced and fully restored to their function as a guarantee of the citizen and the public interest, transparency and efficiency of administrative action. The text we are debating contains a simple and fundamental assumption: without digitisation there can be no simplification. The option of digital first represents a step forward for a different relationship between citizens and businesses, on the one hand, and public administration on the other. This new relationship is based on the certainty of the rules and on the simplicity of the procedures, starting from the modules. The decree-law also contains rules that simplify, procedures for the university, for digital citizenship, for the strengthening and rationalization of information systems, for the economic treatment of members of the national fire department. The decree closes with the norms dedicated to the environment: from the rationalization of the procedures of environmental assessment to the interventions for the diffusion and the consolidation of a sustainable energy system, to the prevention and the contrast of the hydrogeological failure. The thorough examination of the text, carried out by my fellow Members of the Committees on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to which I thank the whole House, has made it possible to make changes and additions, thanks to the amendments tabled by all the groups. Among these I want to underline some of them, fruit of the work carried out by my Group, Italy Viva-PSI, that they add to the commitment and the political action exercised so that the text of the decree-law approved by the Government, from the beginning, transposes the norms of what, for us, was and is the so-called shock plan in order to unblock already financed yards. The amendments simplify the rules on the termination of contracts, allowing, in the event of a crisis or insolvency of the performer, to examine in advance whether there are, within the designated grouping, other undertakings which meet the qualifying requirements for carrying out the work remaining. The delivery of urgent works and supplies and services is simplified. The review and rapid adoption of the individual acts of assent which are the subject of the judge's observations are permitted without blocking the procedures for complex works. There is the rule to make the collection processes of local authorities even more streamlined and efficient, through access to information in the financial reports archive. There is simplification in access to the electronic ticketing services of municipalities and local authorities. The procedure for exporting motor vehicles, motor vehicles and trailers abroad is simplified. We are working on the system of controls of agricultural undertakings. A number of rules are simplified to promote sustainable mobility by municipalities. Finally, I would like to point out the amendment unlocks stadiums, aimed at simplifying and facilitating the restructuring of sports facilities intended to accommodate competitive competitions of a professional level, which will bring benefits to the world of sport and the economy of the territories involved. We are therefore preparing to vote on a measure which, in its complexity, marks an important point in the country's recovery and development process. As I mentioned in the speech, this is a starting point, not a point of arrival. Government and Parliament will increasingly have to work towards unblocking procedures, yards, works already financed, simplification of administrative procedures, accountability of public management, orientation to the objective. The route has just begun, but we have to start the country again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u65	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u66	Mr President, I have listened to many speeches, in which a number of things have been said, some of which are certainly significant, but I would like to remind myself of the context in which we have worked on this simplification decree. We are in the midst of a period burdened by the pandemic's emergency and the negative consequences from the economic point of view, leaving aside for a moment those from the health point of view, have led Europe to take a significant direction, which I also call historical. The European pact, at this time of so great difficulty, has not only been able to strengthen itself, but also to identify investment paths, the transformation dynamics of the European community, of the European peoples, of the European States that together decide to start a transition path that leads them to reach new goals, perhaps shared on paper, but that this emergency has led to becoming an urgent necessity, something to be achieved concretely. And this is worth a significant effort, an effort of unity, an economic effort, an ability to take on solidarity with the needs and needs of the countries that have had the most need, that have suffered much damage and have suffered more forcefully the results of the emergency. On the basis of this, we have defined the threads that determine this transition and that - on the one hand - will modernise our countries and - on the other hand - will help to develop our States in a different way and will give sustainable development, finally implemented concretely. What are the strands of the recovery fund, going on the concrete? They are the environment, the social and the digital, as he told us a few days ago Gentiloni in audition. If the resources that Europe makes available to us must be used on these three strands, with this decree simplifications we will be able to be able to spend well, to do the projects first, to understand what the investments are, and then to put on the ground in a more decisive, meaningful and substantially more concrete way the resources made available. This is the objective, this is the context in which we approve the simplification decree; then there are all the issues that certainly concern our country, the backwardness, the difficulties, the complex situations that many have raised, but this is the goal, the goal that we must follow as a country. We are made available to us the resources that are destined to objectives: with the decree simplifications we make it possible to achieve them, to make investments become concrete works, and we will see it. If there are no works in a few months' time, the objectives will not be achieved, we will not have the plans, we will not be able to put those resources to the ground: then it will mean that we have not simplified, that we have not put ourselves in a position to be objectively efficient in this situation. That's the goal. Then you can make all the amendments in all fields, it is not a problem: Italy is rich in aspects that need to be simplified. That can be a joke. But this is the objective of the decree simplifications. And I believe that the government - we often talk about the amendments, but then there is a basic text that measures if we have collected the indications and needs - went in this direction: works, digital, environment and social. I make one final general point, and then close with a more specific one. Clearly we have noticed one thing: the same indications of simplification in a general regulatory framework clash with the sedimentation of legislation which, at regional level, has stratified on the subject of concurrent legislation in the various territories. To amend a national regulatory framework therefore determines different consequences depending on the territories in which these changes go to intervene, because there is regional legislation, there are rules that have developed, there is, so to speak, a trajectory that has long been defined and that we must see how it crosses and collects the changes of the national regulatory framework that we are going to insert. The point on which I want to conclude is one which I have also followed in the Health Commission, that of social and health infrastructure, that is, how we will be able to quickly put in place the resources that will come and determine an infrastructure response in the health and social field. One of the issues that we have raised and which we have made subject to an amendment, which is also shared by the other political forces, is precisely the identification of a simplification, of a more rapid path that allows to intervene on the existing building heritage, as well as on those areas in which, from the urban point of view, they have been identified of the potential to collect restructuring needs (can also be abandoned areas), but also of re-sewing the urban fabric, in order to install social infrastructures, from the RSA to hospitals, hostels for the university, social housing, sports infrastructure, which however have a social value for the community. From this point of view there is a lot of public heritage and there is also a lot of public-private heritage, because in our country there are participating companies: often, at the local level, the valorization of the building heritage took place through societies that also involve private individuals. Well, these potentials must be put into circulation, they must be activated, and we can do so in a useful and meaningful way through the intervention that has been included in the simplification decree. I really should like to conclude by saying that - in my opinion - we must bear in mind the general elements that I said at the beginning. We have this task today: our main objective is to put to the ground the resources that come from Europe on environmental, social and digital issues and the simplification decree goes in this direction. The work done by the Government is positive and I believe that Parliament's contribution has been a positive enrichment. It is now up to us to ensure that the concrete results of this work of approach are seen in the coming months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u67	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to make an immediate connection with the speech by Senator Collina, who very appropriately placed his speech in a system framework, because it is quite clear that this decree-law is part of a framework of this kind. It is not born from nothing to get to nothing, but, precisely, it is incarnate within a system of decrees that the Government, in a very fast and also very effective way, has managed to put into system over the course of four months altogether. (17.30) (Ferrazzi followed). The whole of the decrees we are talking about basically moved on two tracks: that of the economic resources to be brought to the ground and that of the reforms, sometimes even structural, that the country needs like the air. Well, the decree-law on our examination tries to make our country take a step forward, for example on the whole infrastructure system. When I speak of infrastructure, I speak not simply of physical infrastructure, classically understood, but of all assets, material and intangible, which create the wealth of a nation and which are the prerequisite for its development, from a substantial and organic point of view. I am referring to development, not only as GDP growth, but also as a quality of life and as a possibility for everyone, regardless of the census and the family of origin, to emerge and express their talents. Therefore, the measure in question intervenes from the physical infrastructures and therefore all the infrastructures of the transport, the ports and in part of the airports. It then talks about the procedures and therefore the assessments that are approved - for example - in the environmental field, such as the environmental impact assessment (IA) and the strategic environmental assessment (VAS), trying to make system and accelerate the processes in the decisions useful for the development of our country. The measure also deals with the other type of infrastructure, i.e. the intangible infrastructure, which is no less important than the material infrastructure, as the Undersecretary Margiotta knows very well that has followed the measure in a very diligent and appropriate way in representation of the Government. Digital, 5G, broadband and fiber optics are all elements without which it is quite clear that not only there is no economic growth for the country, but there is no social equality either. It is clear that the digital divide is a serious problem, at 360 degrees, that absolutely must be exceeded, because everyone's right is now at stake: it is a basic right to have access, at zero cost, to systems of this type, because otherwise you can't even respond to the basic needs of people. Then there is the great theme of energy, which is the other great infrastructure that the country needs. From this point of view, our country needs a great shock: we must go beyond coal and the energetic and absolutely polluting use of oil and we should go, with great speed, towards the alternative forms of clean energy, which can be expanded in our country to 360 degrees, in the different ways that technology already allows. The fourth major infrastructure is that of knowledge, investment in knowledge and research, because in their absence there is no possibility of development. The other infrastructure on which the measure tries to make a step forward, even if many more will have to be done in the future, is that of waste disposal, which in our country must make a huge leap in quality. We know how leopard-spotted it is; how there are systems that do not work at all; how differentiated not only and not so much the separate collection within urban areas, depending on the regions of our country, but above all how differentiated the system of use and recycling is, in the logic of the circular economy. We have cities where, paradoxically, separate collection works, but then all the differentiated becomes undifferentiated because there are no plants. These are therefore issues that the Decree-Law simplifications seeks to address and tackle - let us say so too - for some issues in a more marked way and for others starting a path, which we must carry out even more strongly and decisively. As I said before and as Senator Collina said, all this must be included in a broad political discourse, because all these measures, which have economic repercussions, have been made by allocating EUR 100 billion under the regime. But where do these EUR 100 billion come from? They come basically - let's say so too - from the public debt; and there was no alternative, because taxes either increased - and it is clear what this would mean during the pandemic - or they cut their spending, or they acted according to this third way. Very well, but the public debt is all towards future generations and hence a political and moral imperative arises to ensure that the use of that money is invested for future generations. It cannot be a rainy, indiscriminate use, but it must be a selective use for investments that serve today and tomorrow, for the competitive differential in the world of knowledge and in the world of green, in this sector. It is quite clear that this will be the challenge of the coming weeks and months of the Government, and not only of the majority forces, but also, with real involvement, of the minority forces. Last step: the resources made available to the Italians we have simply because someone bought the government bonds, because someone bought the debts. The debt market works just like the other markets; you put it in the market and someone has to buy, there has to be a demand as well as a supply. We know well that the country system, the macroeconomic fundamentals in Italy are a little 'dancers; this is naturally born not from this Government and not even from the previous one, but from a situation that has lasted over the decades. Just see how the rating agencies place us. It is quite clear that, when you place your debt on the market, the interest rate is proportional to the risk; So much for the risk, so much for the interest rate. How much would it cost if an investment of this kind went to the private market? It would cost us God's wrath. Thank God, President, there were the European Union and the European Central Bank, which buys 200 billion Italian government bonds from March 2020 to March 2021. It is thanks to the European Union that we are able to do these operations, just as it is thanks to the European Union that we are able to bring home some 300 billion from recovery funds, SURE - and I also hope the ESM - for our citizens. The real patriots are the Europeanists. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u69	Senator Romeo, if you want to intervene, tell us what you want to do about it and we'll be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u71	Mr President, I would have said so, but the Parent Company has rightly anticipated me because we are always ahead. Of course, thanks go to everyone and it is not in a way, even for the civilization with which, while working day and night, in the struggle and in some moment of tension, we have come to bring the measure to this House, with the mandate to the rapporteurs. This is also an important sign that the country probably needed. In the game of the parts we have to describe in turn the glass half full or half empty. This is part of the game and sometimes the only consequence of this game is that citizens do not understand it so much, that they see the same measure described as a disaster or as the panacea of all evils. What is certain is that Count had promised the nectar of the gods and instead there is fresh water in the glass. For God's sake, the fresh water is better than the poison, especially for the thirst that the country has, in particular for answers, but surely more could be done. The fact that there is even more good in the measure is one of the amendments that we have tabled and supported most strongly as a League, which was Amendment 1.3 which extends until 31 December 2021 some of the most important rules of the measure. We would never have asked to extend anything negative and we would have missed it. But surely, without controversy, one cannot uncomfortable the simplification in Italy and then be content - I say this too, I do not want my colleagues from the PD, who first recorded the statement - that the mountain gave birth to the mouse. Moreover, simplification in Italy is mentioned in the Giannini report, which is from 1979; it took eleven years to make Law No 241 of 1990. Keep calling Europe back; Mr Ferrazzi did so just now. It is a pity that Europe has been asking for a simplification step for Italy and other countries since 2000 from the Lisbon Strategy, where in point 14 states were asked to act on reducing the costs of doing business and in point 17 they were asking for simplification; more generally, they were asking to improve the legislation of individual states. We expected more. Let's say Conte discovered the hot water and presented us with a heated soup, because he lacked the courage that Senator Riccardi referred to. Italian is a very rich language and it is often we who do not use it as we could. Often you tend to use the words "simple" and "easy" as synonyms. It's not like that. Unfortunately, on some key points, the majority chose the easy route and not the difficulty of simplifying what the country was waiting for. We have also contributed positively, with over 37 concrete proposals on many subjects. I was saying of the extension of the effects, but there are also the extension to all Italy of the benefits for young farmers under forty-one years old and the interventions to facilitate access to computer tools for people with disabilities (and I could continue). But much more we could have done if there had been courage from the government. There are also contradictions. I ask Senator Pellegrini of the 5 Stars (not of course the colleague of the League) because we are proud to foresee - and it is right, on this too we have tabled an amendment - the installation of photovoltaic panels on landfills and then we reject an amendment proposed by the League that asked to act, to inform, to give answers to citizens and to make analyses on landfills of waste before 1982, that is to say the decree of the President of the Republic that provided for a whole series of constraints and limits. Everything that has happened before has certainly caused damage; there is an unknown and it would not have cost any analysis on all the accumulations of waste and on all the landfills, to understand for a good time what the situation is, beyond the responsibilities. Of course, no one claims to blame those who have authorized the construction of those landfills on the basis of previous laws; but in any case, those heaps of waste are causing damage to the environment and health, and answers should finally be given. The emergency that exists at this moment, for a year now, is not what my colleague Garavini remembered, namely the impasse of bureaucracy, which is now chronic in Italy. The real emergency is the political impasse of a country blocked by a divided majority [[Applause]] , from a majority that is a little' a Giano two-faced and therefore by its mythological nature, because it is really together for bet, looks in different directions. To hear some colleagues claim that a victory is not so much the adoption of an amendment of their own, but the reduction in the negative scope of the amendment of a colleague from another party says a lot. There has been a work - as my colleague Mr Arrigoni recalled - from Penelope's canvas not so much on the positions between the minority and the majority in this House - relations are reversed in the country - but within the same majority, because there is a party, the Movimento 5 Stars, which is completely detached from reality and is now only hanging from principles and gradually losing its leaves. Another fig leaf was the failure to share with the communities until 2023 (we will remember it until exhaustion). This has produced a paradoxical situation whereby in this House obstructionism has not done so against the majority, but a party is doing so against the country. I give just one example. In the morning of Wednesday, more than on Tuesday night, in half an hour we saw two opposing things. Amendment 10.33 gave an answer after four years to the earthquake zones of the crater of Central Italy. In half an hour we were able to take the proposal of the League, share it all together, take over from all parties and approve it together giving an answer. In the same half an hour on secondary solid fuel (CSS), a position of the entire Parliament, with the exception of the Movimento 5 Stars, was inexplicably blocked not giving a response to a problem of the country. At the same time, it is not possible to ask not to make landfills and not to open waste water heaters. By magic, we can't get rid of the trash. Do we want a good time not to make the easy choice - I am addressing my PD colleagues - to turn an amendment into an agenda, which becomes a Manzoni cries and does not solve the problem? We will go back to exhaustion and we will be relentless to put you in front of the responsibilities that we already have from next week with the August decree. The answers can be given: there are 25 billion free, which do not descend from heaven because it is money of the Italians and the children of the Italians, because those debts will be paid. We wasted some time. We're not gonna let you waste money. You will find common sense amendments with the League's answers. We will be relentless to ask you to vote for them to give those answers that the country is waiting for and that must be concrete and not just in principle. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u72	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a municipality north of Naples which is the most populated municipality not the capital of the Province. This land, which for a stretch embraces the sea, had been chosen by the Romans as a place of their summer residences precisely for the beautiful coastal, low and sandy stretch. It is a place that may seem like a corner of paradise, but it has actually had a bitter destiny. When the business of the illicit disposal of waste began in the 1970s, it was chosen as a waste bin of Campania for its flat conformation and was condemned to become a land of poisons by a system of heinous speculation put in place by unscrupulous entrepreneurs who did business with organized crime. More than 30,000 tons of toxic and special waste were illegally disposed of in that municipality until 2004. A few years ago a journalistic survey described Giugliano, which is my city and the third of Campania, as the capital of poisons using as a key reading the four elements of nature: the fire of toxic fires, the air haunted by dioxins, the land impregnated with industrial waste and the rotten water of the ponds in which the Camorra spilled everything and the polluted agricultural wells. On the territory of Giugliano there are about 40 landfills between abusive and non-ripe, landfills not yet characterized, not put in safety and not reclaimed. In 2010 the site for the landfills of Giugliano was defined by the Ministry of the Environment as a wide area, or area where the existing data suggest that the environmental situation is particularly compromised. Yet, in 2013 the site of national interest, which included many municipalities of the Domitio coast and of the Agro aversano and, therefore, also Giugliano, was downgraded to a site of regional interest, thus shifting the competences in charge of the Region. Today, after nine years of police management, the reclamations have not yet been completed; landfills have not been secured. That is why for two years I have been asking Minister Costa to intervene decisively on Giugliano. With this measure at last, thanks to an amendment adopted in the Commission, we have planned to start the process of conversion of the site of regional interest Large area of Giugliano on a site of national interest. In this way the central state will finally be able to intervene and give the answers expected from the territory and the population who paid dearly for the forgetfulness of politics. [[Applause]] In this decree-law, therefore, there is certainly the joy of being able to share with my fellow citizens an important result that marks a great step forward towards the restoration of the environment and the redemption of the right to health of those who live in those places martyred by an environmental disaster that lasted decades; to this joy, however, is accompanied by the bitterness of not being able to bring to fulfilment also other important battles that, for now, are only suspended. It will be suspended - for example - the opportunity to set up a specialized training course in general medicine that would bring Italy into line with the rest of Europe. Our country, in fact, at present is the only one that does not provide a specialized training for doctors of general medicine. I had therefore proposed an amendment, built with the associations of young doctors, with doctors in training and with the Ministry of University and Research, to reorder and rename the School of Specialization in Community Medicine and Primary Care in the School of Specialization in General Medicine of Community and Primary Care in order to recognize these specialists to be able to practice the profession of general medicine doctor. In this regard I would like to remind you that there are two ministerial decrees: a decree of 1996 that established the school and a second interministerial decree of 2015 that identified the fields of professional competence of specialists in community medicine and primary care precisely in general medicine. Therefore, to those who claim that my proposal is a sanatorium, I ask rather why until now these professionals have been prevented from practicing general medicine, despite two ministerial decrees explicitly declare general and family medicine as a competence acquired in the training of these doctors. We are all saying that this pandemic has shown us that the current model of medicine of the territory must be reorganized and we strongly believe that in this reorganization we must start precisely from training, aiming at the quality of the training and work path that we offer to our young doctors. We are also convinced that the possibility of training local specialists, ready to face the challenges of the National Health Service that are represented by the changed health scenarios, the greater impact of chronicities and the tasks posed by the same pandemic, requires organised and integrated responses at community level. Unfortunately, however, as often happens for every revolutionary proposal, we have found resistance on the part of those who are interested in that nothing changes. We will certainly continue to fight alongside doctors who ask us to open a course of specialized training with a core national curriculum more professionalizing than the current regional courses. We also proposed to fill another important gap that today limits the computerization of our National Health Service, establishing institutional health flows and redefining the contribution that we had made in the budget law for the purchase of medical equipment to telemedicine. In this way we could monitor patients at home and at the same time protect doctors from possible exposure to contagion. We also proposed to simplify the current rules on access to managerial roles in health. The current rule provides, in fact, that the managers of ASL and hospitals can also be appointed in the absence of the required qualifications, provided that they acquire them within one year of their appointment. On the other hand, we consider it a priority to entrust the management of health care companies and hospitals to qualified personnel, also to free health from an administrative and management impasse, unfortunately recurrent when the decline from the role occurs if the necessary title has not been achieved. In this simplification, we also wanted to extend access to the national list of directors-general to professionals with a master's degree in second-level university or a PhD in health organization and management, now paradoxically excluded because they do not have the title of regional training. Unfortunately, these projects, which were structured in a timely manner with the sole aim of improving the quality of care provided to citizens and the training offered to our doctors, will remain pending for now, because the great health emergency that we have experienced has taught us a lot, but not enough. Evidently our recent memory is alive, but not too much: in health care they say they want to simplify, but then, when they really have the possibility, everything becomes difficult and postponed and they expect the famous organic reforms. However, my Group and I will continue to fight with conviction to achieve these results, urging all political forces, majority and opposition, and all stakeholders, orders and unions, to confront us in a fair, open and constructive way, so that our country can finally have a National Health Service that meets the health needs of the population. Today these amendments have been transformed into agendas for the Government and we hope that shortly, already in the August decree, we will move from proposals to real reforms, before another pandemic arrives, a new emergency to remind us that perhaps we should have the courage to change, in order to finally find ourselves ready to face the new challenges that the future certainly reserves us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u74	The general debate is closed. As we do not see on the horizon the possibility of closing down in a better way, if Senator Garruti agrees too and in the absence of Senator Sudan, I propose that the rapporteurs' replies be postponed until tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. [[Comments.]] It seemed clear to me why, and I said it between the lines. I'm told by the offices. It is not very clear to me, but I do not think that the maxi amendment is ready; it is obvious. In fact, it seemed to me that I made it clear more than the presidency should normally do.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u77	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I speak improperly, because I should have got off my desk. The maxi amendment presupposes that confidence has been required. Trust has not been requested. [[Applause]] When the general debate is over, the rapporteur's and the government's replies and the vote on the amendments are taken; since there are so many of them, we can begin this evening to examine them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u78	I share your point of view. That does not mean that neither I nor you are the Presidents of the Senate, but we are the Vice Presidents. A few words to good connoisseur. However, confidence - as everyone who was present at the meeting of the Group presidents will remember - has been announced for Friday morning, for what it is of course worth. In any case, Senator, is there a proposal to move forward? What's the objection? If you make a concrete proposal to me, I will answer it, or else I will give the floor for the end-of-session speeches. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, Mr President, but the order of business would have liked the replies to be made and continued with the examination of the measure. Having taken note of what you have said, I believe that a short ten-minute suspension can be made to take stock of when it would be the right time, or rather the right day to deal with the maxi amendment. Let us make ten minutes of suspension and at the recovery we update ourselves with respect to when the House will be reconvened, also in the light of the updates relating to the examination of the maxi amendment by the State Accounting Office.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u79	Actually, we already have the updates. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Then give it to us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We could - there would be nothing wrong - proceed now with the reruns and then still stop the work. It wouldn't change much.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u82	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I understand Mr Calderoli's position, but you, as President acting at the moment, have already declared the general debate closed...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u83	The closure of the general discussion does not imply that there are no follow-up. His answer is not exhaustive, because after the closure of the general discussion there are replies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u84	Mr President, I would like to reassure you that I am well aware of the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, I agree with your position. I would like to ask you, with the utmost serenity, to continue the sitting with the speeches at the end of the sitting and to postpone until tomorrow, as you have already told us.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u85	I would suspend quietly, but there is no reason why I do not know what we might get to know that we do not already know in the next ten minutes. [[Comments]] The truth is that, as we expected, the maxi amendment is not ready. Those with a little experience don't need much information. I would ask you, however, since the sitting is continuing, to take place, also because the left is the most rigid against the assemblies and you are making an incredible gathering. Wear the masks.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u88	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have always had the right behaviour - majority and opposition - in the conduct of Parliament's work. Righteousness, this time, has failed, because there is a rumor, President, that at 6 p.m. the maxi amendment should be approved by the State Accounting Office. It is not possible because - as Senator Calderoli has observed - trust has not yet been placed and, therefore, you cannot make a maxi amendment. It is therefore not true that a large amendment on which trust has not yet been requested can be transmitted to the State's Accounting Office. It would have been right to ask for trust now. I'd like you to listen to me, Minister. If confidence were to be established today, the procedure would be correct. At the time when the debate on confidence was held this evening - not the explanations of vote - it would be right to use this time to prepare the maxi amendment and forward it to the State Accounting Office. However, if the maxi amendment was passed to the State Accounting Office prior to the imposition of confidence, the procedure would be incorrect. This is the procedure that has always been used, even by you and all the other ministers. Therefore, the question is as follows: what is the reason why we cannot put trust now and gain at least the time of the debate on trust, and not explanations of vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u89	At this point, because I want to hear from the President, since a debate has been started on the timing, and only to this end, I suspend the sitting for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 6.05 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.17 p.m.) I recall that we had identified the possible decision to start the sitting tomorrow morning at a time to be agreed, and no longer at 9 a.m. I believe that we have offered the opportunity for talks which have, roughly, reached the same conclusion. But if there's anything you want to agree to, we like to facilitate understanding between groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u92	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, from an informal reconnaissance with the Groups and with the Government and verified the time at which there could be a maxi amendment with all the chrysms in order to be deposited, the proposal would be to resume the sitting tomorrow at 11 o'clock, with the reply of the rapporteurs and the Government and with the deposit and the request, according to the sacred regulations, of the maxi amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u93	All this waiting to say that the sitting will start at 11 a.m. instead of 10 a.m. Without commenting, I have no difficulty, therefore, in confirming the closure of the general debate and postponing the resumption of work until tomorrow morning at 11 a.m. instead of 10 a.m. as we had planned. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u96	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Rule 148 (2) of our Rules of Procedure states that oral questions are placed on the agenda within 15 days of the date of their publication. We know that this is not the practice, but, on the part of those who want to reform the Constitution, it would be good for us to start to respect the rules, at least when questions are asked and touches urgent issues on which the Government is moving in a particular way. I've solicited them before... [[Brusio]] I feel there's a bit of a clamor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u97	Colleagues, I understand that this is an end-of-session speech, but it is precisely for this reason that those who are not interested can leave the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u98	Take back your speech, Senator Malan. MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Without this reminder appearing to be a necessary fact, because in fact the answer to the questions is due and not to give an answer if you are asked, by letter to the Presidency on 28 July I asked for the oral answer to the questions 3-01411, 3-01770 and 3-01237 on the Iran issue. These are questions submitted since 2019, in which the Government is asked to indicate the position it holds with respect to the Iranian Government in international politics, with regard to international financing of terrorism, Iran's responsibility in the pandemic and the fierce repression of the protests in Iran. There was no response, but there was a strong activity between our ambassador and the Iranian authorities and contacts between the Italian and Iranian governments. The lack of response is already intolerable, but even more so is the presence of actions in the very direction referred to in the questions. Then there is also the question 3-00975 of 2 July 2019, in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is always asked to account that funds established for at least 27 million - that is, the sum corresponding to the first six months of savings generated by the cut of parliamentarians, i.e. the reduction of their representatives that citizens will be able to choose - are invested by financing neighbouring organisations, essentially contiguous and coinciding with organisations considered terrorist, both by the European Union and by other international organisations. Again, I did not have any answers. At this point I would also like to ask the answer to a more recent question, the 3-01872 of 18 August 2020, in which the Foreign Minister is always asked why Italy has limited itself to abstaining when the UN Human Rights Council has been told about the Hong Kong Security Act. In particular, our country abstained on the resolution tabled by the United Kingdom in which it denounced the serious violation of human rights as well as international agreements because of the same security law. Italy then abstained, instead of voting against, on the resolution presented by the Cuban dictatorship in support of the dictatorial and liberticide law passed in Hong Kong. I ask that the Minister respond and not when he needs it: do less campaigning for the referendum and do his job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u99	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-253.ana.u100	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday 4 September, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.25 a.m.
