ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 30 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, unanimously approved amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 27 February. Today's sitting will be discussed: motions on memory travel; Commission extension document on feminicide; follow-up to discussion of ratification and enforcement of the Minamata Convention on Mercury; from the writing site, draft law on promotion and support of reading. The agenda will be incorporated accordingly. Today's sitting will be suspended from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. following the request by a parliamentary group. The work of the week will continue with the discussion of the decree-law on support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno, where concluded by the Commission. On Thursday 6 February, at 9.30 a.m., the secret ballot will be held using ballot papers for the election of a Senator Secretary. After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 13:00. Premier question time is scheduled at 3 p.m. The follow-up to the session may continue with votes - without closing hours - until the end of the examination of the Decree-Law on support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno. In the week from 11 to 13 February, in addition to the possible follow-up to the unfinished topics, the decree-laws on interceptions and the establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research will be discussed, when the respective examination in the Commission has been completed. On Wednesday 12, at 9.30 a.m., document IV-a. 2, as defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, will be discussed. After any electronic vote, it will still be possible to declare the vote to the Secretary Senators until 7 p.m. In the week from 18 to 20 February, in addition to the follow-up of unfinished topics, at 6 p.m. on Tuesday 18 February the secret ballot will be held by means of ballots for the election of two members of the Data Protection Authority and two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications. After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 8 p.m. In the week from 25 to 27 February, in addition to the follow-up to unfinished topics, the decree-law extending the terms, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies, will be discussed. At Thursday 13, 20 and 27 February, the inspection union and - at 3 p.m. - the question time are also scheduled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met on 4 February 2020 with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of January and February 2020: - Drawing of Law No. 1421 - Provisions for the promotion and support of reading (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drafting seat)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u6	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted, in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 27 February: [[Wednesday, February 5, h. 10 - Motions on the travels of memory - Doc. XXII, n. 9-a - Extension of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide (from the drawing-house) - Follow-up to draft law 1171 - Ratification and enforcement of the Convention of Minamata on Mercury - Drawing of Law No 1421 - Promotion and support of reading (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drawing-house) - Voting for the election of a Senator Secretary (vote by secret ballot by ballot) (Thursday 6, 9.30 a.m.) * - Drawing of Law No 1672 - Decree-Law No 142, Support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) (expired on 14 February) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure, to the President of the Council of Ministers (Thursday 6, 15 a.m.) Thursday 6" h. 9.30 p.m.]] * After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 13:00. [[Tuesday, February 11 h. 16,30 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1659 - Decree-Law n. 161, Interceptions (where concluded by the Commission) (scade on 29 February) - Drawing of law n. 1664 - Decree-Law n. 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research (where concluded by the Commission) (scade on 9 March) - Doc. IV- bis, No 2, defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities (Wednesday 12, 9.30 a.m.) * - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 13, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 12 " h. 9.30 a.m. Thursday 13 " h. 9.30 a.m.]] Amendments to draft law No 1659 (Law No 161, Interceptions) should be tabled by 3 p.m. on Monday 10 February. * In the case of proposals for refusal of authorisation, after the electronic vote, the possibility of declaring the vote to the Secretary Senators until 7 p.m. will be allowed. [[Tuesday, February 18 h. 16,30 - Following topics not concluded - Vote for the election of two members of the Data Protection Supervisor and two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications (secret ballot vote by ballot) (Tuesday 18, 6 p.m.) * - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 20, 15) Wednesday 19 " h. 9,30 Thursday 20 " h. 9,30]] * After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 8 p.m. [[Tuesday, February 25, h. 16,30 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 162, Extension of terms (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on February 29) - Inspection union - Immediate response questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 27, at 15) Wednesday 26 " h. 9,30 Thursday 27 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law no.... (Decree-Law No. 162, Extension of time limits) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1672 (Decree-Law No 142, Support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 6' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 47' PD 36' FdI 27' Mixed 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law no. 1659 (Decree-Law No. 161, Interceptions) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 32' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 6' PD 50' FdI 38' Mixed 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1664 (Decree-Law No. 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 32' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 6' PD 50' FdI 38' Mixed 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 162, Extension of time limits) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 6' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 47' PD 36' FdI 27' Mixed 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of Decree No 1672 (Decree-Law No 142, Support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: Movimento 5 Stelle 1h 06' Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC 48' Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione 47' Democratic Party 36' Fratelli d'Italia 27' Misto 27' Italia Viva-PSI 27' For the Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissenzienti 5' * * * Time distribution for discussion of Decree No 1659 (Decree-Law No 161, Interceptions) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: Movimento 5 Stelle 1h 32' Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC 1h 07' Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione 1h 06' Democratic Party 50' Fratelli d'Italia 38' Misto 38' Italia Viva-PSI 38' For the Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissenzienti 5' Distribution of the times for the discussion of ddl no. 1664 (Decree-Law No. 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) Speakers 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: Movimento 5 Stelle 1h 32' Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC 1h 07' Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione 1h 06' Democratic Party 50' Fratelli d'Italia 38' Misto 38' Italia Viva-PSI 38' For the Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissenzienti 5' * * * Distribution of time for discussion of ddl n.... (Decree-Law n. 162, Extension of terms) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) Speakers 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: Movimento 5 Stelle 1h 06' Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC 48' Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione 47' Democratic Party 36' Fratelli d'Italia 27' Misto 27' Italia Viva-PSI 27' For the Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissenzienti 5'
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00208 by Senator Salvini and other Senators, 1-00211 by Senator Bernini and other Senators, and 1-00212 by Senator Marcucci and other Senators, on the journey of memory. I call Senator Pirovano to explain motion 208.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the groups for agreeing to schedule the motion of the League so quickly, first signed by Salvini, who was born in a very spontaneous way, during an exchange between friends and colleagues, just in the days before the day of memory. In particular, with Senator Rivolta we talked about our respective experiences in the fields of Mauthausen, where I was young with the school, and Auschwitz, where Senator Rivolta was as an adult. Discussing and remembering in particular days, I thought that everyone in life should make that journey at least once in life, possibly as a young person, to truly understand, as far as possible, the tragedy of the Holocaust and the Shoah. For this reason, precisely on Memory Day, January 27, with Senator Rivolta and Senator Romeo we filed a bill that goes in the same direction as the motion that followed, with which we propose to encourage the journeys of memory for high school students so that as many young people as possible can do so. To do this, of course, we need funds. In the draft law presented we hypothesized a figure of 5 million euros per year, but to be included as a structural measure within the law of 2000 that established the Day of Memory. These funds are certainly not sufficient, but they are a step forward in ensuring that more students than today can travel to concentration and extermination camps. I would be very pleased if, in addition to the motion we are debating today, all the Members present would sign this bill, working with us to improve the text and perhaps persuade the Government to commit more than EUR 5 million. For years we know that the Ministry of Education, University and Research collaborates with the Union of Italian Jewish Communities on a project called "Young people remember the Shoah" which includes a competition in which, however, only a part of the Italian schools participates. [[Brusio]] Sorry, colleagues, I'm talking about the Shoah. [[Call the president back.]] Maybe you have more important things to do, I don't know. We're talking about the Shoah. I ask for some respect, and not for me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u9	Go ahead, Senator Pirovano.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u10	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, this is an annual contribution of a few hundred thousand euros to reward students participating in the competition and that guarantees every year, in addition to initiatives promoted independently by schools, a trip to concentration camps and places of memory, but only to a hundred students. We want to ensure much more travel for students in this country, so that everyone can do so at least once in their own course of study. I knew about the Shoah since I was a kid, because I was lucky enough to have a mom at home watching all the documentaries and movies on the subject. When I grew up, I studied and studied, but until I was in Mauthausen, the Shoah and the Holocaust, I knew nothing. I've forgotten a lot of things I've studied over the years, and I have vague memories of that school trip to Austria. I remember a glimpse of Salzburg, the beautiful Butterfly House in Vienna, a Sacher cake that I brought home to my parents and the beautiful paintings of Klimt at Belvedere. I have vague memories and images imprinted in my mind. But of the day at the Mauthausen concentration camp I have never forgotten and will never forget a single image. It was cold, it was snowy, but I had clothes. It was a horrible place. I felt like I wanted to get out of there as soon as I could, and I knew I'd get out of there. We went for a ride in the courtyards, the shacks, the crematoria ovens and the small gas chamber. Yes, because Mauthausen was a fake concentration camp: there were no large gas chambers like maybe in Auschwitz, because the extermination took place in another way, especially through forced labor in the nearby granite quarry. Not only that: the extermination of the deportees took place through death sentences for inedia, hunger and thirst in the blockades of death. It provoked the eviction of stone bearers on the ladder of death, in the precipice of the quarry; the prisoners were pushed from the cliff, called the wall of the parachutists, and the suicides were led by despair. There were blows of axe or of white weapons on crowds of deportees; beatings, lashes, tortures, stranglements and beatings by the dogs of the SS; suppression of almost all the sick, with injections to the heart; introduction in the crematories of living subjects; forced drownings in buckets of water or in the sewer; suicides for a quick and gentle death, through the barbed wire electrified; blows of revolver to the nape during false measurements of the height; moving gas chambers, through a truck with the exhaust pipe turned inside the rear compartment of the vehicle; jet of ice-cream hydrants in winter, on naked prisoners, throughout the night; mass shots; promiscuity in environments without hygiene with carriers of serious infectious diseases; death due to the overly light clothing; medical experiments on human guinea pigs. Then I remember the picking of raspberries: the macabre charade to equip the prisoners with baskets and force them to collect raspberries, which were outside the electric grids of the camp, followed by the shooting by the sentries for attempted escape. I remember, again, the bleeding for transfusions to German soldiers on the eastern front; the lethal injections in the heart, with phenol, gasoline or other poisonous substances; the hangings and the self-hangings commanded; extermination with deliberately low-calorie diet and poor for heavy work, specially designed to last a few months the deportee. About 200,000 people, of different nationalities, were deported to Mauthausen: from political opponents to people persecuted for religious reasons, to homosexuals, Jews, gypsies, prisoners of war and common criminals and half of the deportees were killed or found dead due to inhuman living and working conditions. At the end of the tour in the field, really difficult, my comrades and I were taken to a room where they showed us the original footage of the time, shot in particular by the Allied forces, by the Americans, who freed the camp and showed what the condition was when they arrived. I was there, right there, where all this happened. When I came out of the field that, as the bus went away, I saw him shrinking on the horizon, I cried like a child, because I was sad, but above all I was really very angry. I was there, maybe 25 years ago or something, and I'm here today. I was lucky enough to be elected to the Senate, I am a member of the institutions and - as has happened to me and to you, colleagues - today's young people will be one tomorrow on these benches or in important places for the public life of the country. In illustrating this motion today, I represent a small piece of memory, which will have to be added to other pieces of a puzzle that will never be complete. The present motion and the bill related to it were filed before the worrying data of the Eurispes came out, referring to last year, 2019, according to which 15.6 percent of the Italian people deny that the Shoah ever existed, or does not know its existence: it is probably a mixture of the two things. This is alarming because, if we think that the figure was 2.7 in 2004, we are not going in the right direction. I also remember that our commitment is important, but it is not necessary to have a public role to make a difference, to fight anti-Semitism and all forms of discrimination based on race, skin color, sexual orientation and religious belief. I would like to remember not only the nearly six million Jews who died in the Shoah, but also the 27,362 Righteous among the nations, of which 714 are Italians, because they are proof that then something could be done and that the individual can make a difference. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Saccone]] Adding one plus one, plus one, plus one, and so on, you get to 27.362, and it's an unofficial data because so many are not known. I looked for a fact that I did not find yesterday: how many Jews were saved by the Righteous, known and unknown? How many would have been added to those six million if individual people hadn't helped them? Today I'm wearing a yellow shirt - as you can see - for two reasons: first, I thought of a beautiful message that sent the senator Segre - I'm sorry she couldn't be here today in the days of the commemoration of the Shoah - with which she remembered a drawing made by a girl of Terezin: a yellow butterfly flying over a barbed wire. Senator Segre said she was like the yellow butterfly flying over the barbed wires. This we, the men of the institutions, should do: fly high, at least when we deal with such important issues, without manipulations, without retro thoughts, above all our differences. The second reason is that this shirt belonged to my mom, and she packed it herself. My mom was an artist in work and life. You taught me the difference between right and wrong, not to be right or left. He taught me to treat people with respect, regardless of whether they were a king or the humblest person I met on my way. He taught me never to accept anything that I felt was profoundly wrong, neither out of fear, nor out of convenience. He taught me to always defend the weakest because - he told me - if I did not do it, maybe no one else would. Honour to the Righteous, yesterday, today and tomorrow. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC, PD and IV-P.S.I. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u11	I call Senator Mallegni to explain motion 211.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u12	Mr President, first of all I am particularly pleased that this House has found again - at least apparently, and then we will see when I come forward with a proposal - the craving for such a delicate issue that Parliament decided to stigmatize in 2000 with the adoption of the law it established on 27 January on Memory Day. I am particularly happy because it is true that January 27 is Memory Day, but there are also other dates during the year. One of these is August 12, the day the massacre took place in the municipality of Sant'Anna di Stazzema. I am still administrator of the Municipality of Pietrasanta, decorated with the gold medal of civil value for the massacre of Stazzema: in one day 563 people were killed who, of course, did not all reside in the hamlet of Sant'Anna di Stazzema (there would not have been even physically) but had escaped from the various municipalities of Versilia and had taken refuge in the mountains, precisely in Sant'Anna di Stazzema. On August 12, every year, without the institution of the Day of Memory, the communities of Versilia - and not only of Versilia - gather to remember those tragic events, in which the parish priest Don Innocenzo Lazzeri lost his life, who tried to offer his life to save that of his parishioners. There is not the great influx of the many subjects who today are agitated to support the Day of Memory; it is not easy to meet so many people who, on the Day of Memory, participate in initiatives and demonstrations, and then in Sant'Anna di Stazzema we are always the same. I appreciate, however, that there is a return of interest to such a tragic moment. The phrase " Arbeit macht frei" (work makes free), written not only on the gate of Auschwitz, was one of the lies used not only there, but everywhere, to make rakes, to gather children in classes, to deport someone from one field to another. What's Memory Day for? Is it to remind the total of the 15 million victims, almost all Jewish, or is it to try, according to that tragic moment, to explain to our children that similar situations could somehow come back to occur? Here is the hypocrisy of modern time: concentration camps (where people are concentrated), if we do an in-depth study on national territory, on European territories and the Middle East, or in North Africa, still exist, have not been deleted; they are a logistical tool - someone says it is necessary and indispensable - to identify and contain a certain type of phenomenon. It is clear that the conditions that led to the construction of German and Polish concentration camps were different from those that lead to the construction of today's concentration camps. But I hope that from this House, in addition to the various commitments - all of which are important - which I have read in the various motions, there will be reflection and sensitivity in relation to a situation in the management of peoples in general. Anyone who speaks to you - be careful - is one who proudly established the zero immigrant rule not because he does not want them, but because, having a 25% of the immigrant population from all over Europe and not only, has to settle the people who are already there and struggles to fix others. So there must be a sensitivity which must not divide this House. That is why I hope that the three motions in question will become one, because we must not divide ourselves on such matters. In fact, we have to come up with a joint agenda, because everything that is written in the three motions is completely acceptable, at least from our point of view. We must, however, establish a national sensitivity not on the primacy of the Italian race rather than another, but on the primacy of the need to go in the direction and meet people who do not live adequately, who are not well, who live in poverty, who have major problems. It is clear that first we look at those around us and then, slowly, the more resources we have available, the wider the radius. This is called civilization. That's what we have to do. I counted 31 reception centers and not reception centers on national territory, throughout the country. We need to put our eyes on it and put our noses on it. You have to check what you do. It is necessary to perform an award-winning role of the State towards those who attend and live in our country, who respect the rules, principles, values, send their children to school. We must support them, because it is integration that avoids what someone calls racism; racism that I believe is not there, or I always hope that it does not exist, at least in the hearts of the people I know, and certainly in mine in ours. The Memory Day must serve this and we must perform a function. I appeal to the Government - not to this Government, because it would be easy - to all the governments that, from 2000 onwards, have decided, after having legally established it, to pay attention to the investments made to make children visit those spaces, in Germany and throughout Europe, where concentration camps still exist today. We have to invest, then. And what is the outpost that decides where those resources should be directed and spent? It is the municipalities; the municipalities have a close relationship with the institutions of middle and high schools and can allow children, more and more, to live such an experience. We have limitations, in fact. As the town of Pietrasanta, we started twenty-three years ago, making the kids travel by bus. But there is always the selection of selections, because the resources are not enough. So let us establish this kind of opportunity and let us ensure that on January 27, Memory Day, it serves not only to remember the Shoah, but also to ensure that that event is a warning for everything that is happening today in our country, in Europe and in the world, because situations, unfortunately, have not changed as someone thinks. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u13	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale (Industrial Technical Institute) Giuseppe Armellini in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u14	I call Senator Fedeli to explain motion 212.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we need to reflect. Among the functions of a Parliamentary Assembly there is also that of bringing to life the values of coexistence, respect and freedom, which are the foundation of every democracy. Taking care of anti-Semitism in 2020 in Italy is, then, exactly in the wake of our duties and responsibilities, which derive from being representatives of citizens within the institutions, in respect of constitutional values. We have a great responsibility. We need to strengthen the memory, memory and full awareness not only of what has happened in the past, but also of how we have come to those tragic crimes against the dignity of women and men. This is in fact the condition for those phenomena not to return and have all the necessary contrast. We must not think that we are distant from that senseless fury that has allowed human beings to build a factory of death for other human beings. There was a strategy: it was thought, it was reasoned, it was built; it was not a simple episode. Above all, we must be aware, at a time when the regurgitations of hatred, anti-Semitism and violence are once again heavily tainting our communities in social contexts, on the web and also - I want to emphasize this - in political interrelations. It is a moment in which public opinion itself marks a worrying decline in awareness, as evidenced by 15.5% of Italians and Italians convinced that the Shoah never existed - as emerges from the Report Italy 2020 of Eurispes - with a dramatically exponential growth, among other things, compared to 2.7% of deniers of 2004. What is happening every day to Senator Segre, who we will never thank enough for wanting to grant her history, her pain and her life to teach everyone something to all of us in this House as in every place she has visited in recent months, starting from schools, is the most liveable and shocking example of anti-Semitism that we have been able to observe. Unfortunately, there have been many serious episodes, far too many, so as not to ignite a real and serious alarm light compared to our community. Well then - I say this in this House - that on 27 January last, on the occasion of the Day of Memory, the Council of Ministers reaffirmed its commitment to promote and strengthen the memory of the Holocaust and to counter anti-Semitism in all its forms, indicating Professor Milena Santerini as coordinator for the fight against anti-Semitism and assuming (also a relevant political point), in line with the resolution on the fight against anti-Semitism adopted by the European Parliament on 1 June 2017 and with the conclusions of the European Council of 13-14 December 2018, the definition of anti-Semitism formulated by the International Alliance for the memory of the Holocaust: Anti-Semitism is a certain perception of the Jews that can be expressed as hatred of them. verbal, written or material manifestations of anti-Semitism are directed against individual Jews or their community or property, or against Jewish religious institutions or structures. We're saying no one's immune if he doesn't think about it. We must know that what has happened can be replicated, and we are unfortunately seeing it. The only vaccines that can fight it are knowledge, culture, education, education. It is on these aspects that we must focus on supporting the whole system of education, education and training. The Ministry has already done a lot in these years, as has also been mentioned in previous interventions. We need to know that memory and visiting those places is absolutely a powerful experience, which shows that direct contact with memory is precious to nourish not only knowledge and awareness, but to bring our girls and our boys back from those trips with a very different culture and attitude towards daily life. The importance of memory is testified by the words of Primo Levi: The Holocaust is a page in the book of humanity from which we will never have to remove the bookmark of memory. However, this must be accompanied by the contrast to the phenomena of intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence. It is then necessary that the whole country, starting from national institutions but - certainly - also regional and municipal institutions (i.e. all institutions at every level), show on this front the maximum commitment and maximum responsibility. In this sense I find that in recent months there have been - I mean because this is also an element of reflection among us - too many distinctions from some political parts and with great conviction I would like to point out that it would be important for our debate in this House today to end with the united assumption of all the political forces of all the commitments proposed by the motions: this is the seriousness that is necessary when it comes to the issue of memory and the Shoah. [[Applause from the PD and IV-P.S.I. Groups.]] We must not avoid doing this, putting together the proposals that we have made, because what they are asking, as signatories to our motion, for all the leaders, and not just for the majority, is for the government to continue and strengthen its commitment against all forms of anti-Semitism. On this issue, all the commitments made here are not limited to asking for more resources for memory travel, but also - I stress - to look at the phenomenon in the face and to counter it in its complexity. Fundamental and no longer procrastinable is also the verification of the normative framework in the matter of negationism, of apology of fascism, of requirements and evidence for the benemerence on the part of the persecuted by the Nazi-fascist regime and of the crimes committed with the aggression of racial hatred. I say this because there is a complexity and if you do not know the processes for which you have arrived at the Shoah, we will not have all the tools to counter the phenomenon. Allow me to conclude, Mr President, by quoting, I think we all agree, Hannah Arendt: What I really think now is that evil is never "radical," but only extreme, and that it has neither depth nor demonic dimension. It can invade and devastate the whole world, because it expands on its surface like a fungus. It "challenges" [...] Thought, because thought seeks to reach depth, to go to roots, and, at the moment it seeks evil, is frustrated because it finds nothing. This is his "banality." Only good is deep and can be radical. This is what we want to strengthen in our thinking, knowledge and education. That is why I ask the House to give further thought to the possibility that today, on the subject of all the issues raised here, the sitting may end with a political choice that will honor this Senate. This is the signal that the girls and boys who are watching us expect, because we are in the implementation of the values of our Constitution; going out divided, with divided votes, would once again be a bad signal of this Senate and some political forces compared to the girls and boys of our country. [[Applause from PD, IV-P.S.I., FIBP-UDC and Senator Rivolta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u16	I declare the debate open. Colleagues, in respect of the possibility of each to carry out his own intervention, I ask you the kindness to respect the assigned times, because on this occasion it would be absolutely unpleasant for me to call you back or even take away the word. Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days, the second Italy 2020 Report of the Institute of Economic and Social Political Studies, Eurispes, has been released, and the conclusions of this report leave nothing to be desired. Anyone who cares about democracy can only be stunned by the results: for one in six Italians practically the Shoah never existed, if we consider 15.6 percent of the citizens of our country who deny the extermination of the Jewish people and another 16.1 percent according to which the Shoah was there, but it was not so serious. Well, by adding these two figures we reach 30 percent of Italians who deny or give little importance to one of the most tragic and unheard of events that mankind has had to face. To understand the magnitude of this terrifying data, it is enough to remember that only fifteen years ago the negationism was about 2.7 percent for Italians: it has gone from 2.7 to 30 percent in fifteen years. To the negationism is added the disturbing increase of the phenomena of anti-Semitism that are based on a language of hatred and violence now customsed and never condemned enough. I say this to all of us colleagues: we must not be lenient or indifferent to those who practice violence and those who support these aberrant theories. We need to unite in one voice and this voice must say "no" because those who say those words are an everse that is attentive to our democracy. A few months ago in this House, thanks to the initiative of Senator Segre, we approved the establishment of a Commission against hate crimes. Our country - we must never forget it - has built its identity precisely on the repudiation of violence, on the rejection of anti-Semitism, fighting and sacrificing against those who have committed those abominable crimes. Today, like yesterday, we are not immune to that hatred. And debating him is about the very destiny of mankind. We need to know that that hatred can be replicated and that the only vaccines that can counteract it are historical knowledge, culture and education. They are the tools we have at our disposal to combat the most vile discrimination and not to drop into an unforgivable oblivion one of the darkest points in human history. Look at things to cross them and be crossed. Knowing history serves to mature a collective awareness also on the gravity of the times we are going through. That story that too many of our boys, unfortunately, show that they do not know and that instead represents the main transmission tool of our collective identity. Memory is responsibility, ransom against indifference. The place to protect as a first outpost this memory is the school. Education, training and education are priority instruments, but in order to really deal with what the Shoah meant, we must also teach children to look to the present, as President Mattarella reminded us a few days ago during the Memorial Day celebrations. This means teaching young people the value of citizenship, of conscientious participation in civil life, because freedom has a price and cost a sacrifice and to keep it we must fight every day. In this sense, then, the journeys of memory are crossings of the history in which the abyss of inhumanity is grasped. When human beings become Stücken (because so they were called in the concentration camps), that is, "pieces" to store, in the barracks, in the gas chambers, in the exhausting works and in the degradation of physical and verbal violence that we still perceive when we go to those places, in the silences and in the spaces that we walk stunned and dismayed, the formative value of those journeys, that are not trips, is at the same time an unforgettable emotional experience that teaches us to fight atrocities and racial hatred, but also concrete knowledge that - as Primo Levi says - this has been and must never happen again. The importance of history therefore becomes a very important formative passage, but even more important is to take those opportunities to make them reflect on the "banality of evil" that Hannah Arendt denounced because it accompanied the origins of totalitarianism. When the role of propaganda and the use of terror have reduced the human being to an object on which it is possible to exercise total domination, because he is no longer considered a human being, but is totally annihilated as a legal person, as a moral person and as an individuality. In the Shoah each piece is equal to the other and we need vigilant consciences, not obedient puppets, so that this does not happen again. I close with the words of Primo Levi, who says "if understanding is impossible, knowing is necessary, because what happened can return, consciences can again be seduced and obscured: even our own." [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u20	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to ask, please, all colleagues who have other things to do, perhaps with the noblest motives, to go chat or confront elsewhere. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senators Beginini and Puglia]] It seems to me that we must respect the subject we are dealing with. We're doing something important for the future and we're doing it in front of students. It's just a courtesy, no obligation, but I think it's a demonstration that we're not talking in vain, but we're talking about something important.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u21	Senator, I agree and thank you. I have repeatedly addressed the same request and rely on the education of my colleagues. He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u22	Mr President, just a brief speech to clarify a few things. The concentration camps in the contemporary age were born with World War I. The concentration camps we are talking about have a specificity, because they were not only used to limit a phenomenon, but were aimed at extermination. Of these concentration camps there are not only the Nazi ones; the Nazi ones and those of the Shoah have a uniqueness and a peculiarity, because the Jew was persecuted and wanted regardless of his geopolitical location, as he tended to the final solution. Diversity is not in numbers, because Soviet concentration camps, communist concentration camps, have caused many more victims. The specificity lies in the fact that if a kulako moved away from its geographical location he was not wanted; a Jew was instead wanted to be exterminated in any part of the world. Now, this specificity must not be forgotten, but it must not be forgotten even the whole phenomenon, which is a son of a century who knew evil; he knew it and declined it in different gradations and with different situations, determined by the different and opposite totalitarianisms, which had a common root in the denial of freedom. There is a book that should be made to read to all students: "Prisoner of Stalin and Hitler of Buber Neumann." She is a woman who has known the lagers and the gulags and described the atrocities lived in one concentrated universe and the other. And then, if memory travels are to be encouraged, they should be travels through the twentieth century and make known all the tragedies of that century, because you can go to Auschwitz, but you can go on and get to Katyn and Belarus and make known what were the tragedies of the lagers and what were the tragedies of the gulags. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u24	Mr President, I am speaking today to remind you of Friday, 27 January, the day when the Auschwitz gates were demolished. We celebrate this day as Memory Day, established by Law No. 211 of 2000 to commemorate the Shoah, racial laws, Italian persecution of Jewish citizens, Italians who have suffered deportation, imprisonment and death. I recently went to Auschwitz and Birkenau, the largest cemetery in Europe; a concentration camp and an extermination camp. In these places of extermination of the Jewish people I saw the barracks where the persecuted by Nazis and Fascists, Jews, political dissidents, Roma, disabled and homosexuals, were locked up as mice, abused and tortured, forced to work exhausting until the death, cold and frost of that territory. I saw dark cells with a light point as big as a hand; I saw the showers and what was left of the gas chamber before they destroyed it to try to erase the evidence of extermination. I saw the chimneys from which the smoke of the corpses came out, then turned into soaps. You can see the hair of the women that were accumulated and then sent to the factories to make fabrics. Above all, however, I have seen the photos of the deportees from every nation of Europe and even from outside Europe, with the date of arrival and the date of death recorded not a year or a year and a half later. The thing that struck me the most was the faces of suffering of children and, in particular, teenagers of thirteen to fourteen years. The photos of the adults had instead all a single common denominator; the eyes barred of the represented, as if just before they had seen the horror. I came out different from this trip and I think everyone should go to Auschwitz and Birkenau at least once in their lives. The Jews who survived these camps and extermination camps are now more than eighty years old and their memory, in a little while, will not be enough. Memory itself is no longer enough. But Memory Day can't be just rhetoric. We must translate these terrible memories into concrete facts. I recommend the Memorial trips to Auschwitz and Birkenau to all students of Italian schools as they are the best antidote to the rebirth of racism, hatred and intolerance. The Memory Day requires us to fight every form of indifference and denial, including that of those who diminish the scope of racial laws or the role of the Italian authorities then in the Holocaust. There is in fact a collective responsibility that is not only of the Germans, but also of the then Mussolini government and the Italians. Italy has been fully responsible for what happened with the racial laws of 1938 and with all the laws that have taken away rights and goods from people - I think for example of Jewish children deprived of the possibility of going to school - until allowing the setting up of concentration camps also in Italy (about 40), and the deportation of Italians to German extermination camps in Europe. Everyone today screams loudly "Never again this atrocity". We also remember the words spoken by the Pope a few weeks ago. Are we sure, though, that we are doing enough to combat today's racism? All of us in our daily lives must stop and oppose every manifestation of racism, anti-Semitism, hatred or intolerance; unfortunately, phenomena are increasing mainly through computer tools. The only bulwark is knowledge and study of history, because it is history that teaches and leads to awareness of the phenomenon of racial hatred and allows a civil society to combat it effectively. Because in reality, that of the Jews is not the only genocide of the twentieth century: let us think of the Armenian people, Rwanda, the dictatorship of Videla and the Chile of Pinochet. Even the lagers are not a distant memory. Let's think about the camps in Libya: there are about 700 concentration camps where people are subjected to violence and torture. Of this we have objective data: an Italian doctor takes care of the hands of migrants coming from Libya; they are hands crushed with a hammer, with fractures in all fingers and burned. 15 percent of the population still denies the Shoah, 16.5 minimizes and cultivates anti-Semitic prejudices. We have a great political responsibility in this. I therefore call on all colleagues and the entire political class to set an example. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u25	Mr President, the Forza Italia Group has promoted this debate, together with the other groups which have presented the motions that have been outlined. I therefore have no particular considerations to add to the story itself because it speaks for itself. The tragedy of the Shoah and the duty of communities in every part of the world to remember it are well present in the mind of each of us. We make this debate paradoxically a few days after the day of the memory of 27 January and on the eve of other deadlines; however, the theme has its perennial relevance and, in my opinion, the dedicated days, on the one hand, are important because they arouse initiatives, discussions and communication and, on the other hand, they must not make us consider exhausted in the twenty-four hours of the celebration the sensitivity and awareness on the subject. These motions - ours in particular - speak, in fact, of the trips organized by the schools in the places of memory and the allocation of annual resources. I have not missed the mistake or the idiocy - I might say - of some local administrators who have cancelled, for budgetary reasons (and, in some cases, obtuse) trips that commendably the schools promoted with the support of local authorities in places such as Auschwitz or other places of horror. I am well aware of the uniqueness of the Shoah, which for its gravity has no equal; nor is it worth the classification of horror because it is difficult. Even a single person killed deserves the same attention and solidarity as other more dramatic events. However, the Shoah has a uniqueness for horror, size and all the things I don't need to talk about because it's obvious that I'm in everyone's awareness. But I also have a problem. I say this clearly: there must be some sort of indignometer to be introduced in Italy. What's the indignometer? When do you get indignant? Sometimes, we too have gone behind a fake news and been stoned. The other day, the president of the Zingaretti Region invented against the young people of Frosinone, who would make a pebbles against Chinese boys because of the concerns (which is a horrible gesture, if it were true), but it was a false news and no one then insulted Zingaretti who had supported for the false episode. There is also the day of remembrance (10 February) for the victims of the Foibe and for the forced exodus of the Italians for the Slav-Communist fury titina from Istria, Rijeka and Dalmatia. Yesterday at the Hall of Parliamentary Acts of the Senate Library there was a conference that was not a negationist, but a justificationist: they killed them, but first what had happened? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Dear colleagues, this is not good, and I say this with respect to the National Partisan Association of Italy (ANPI), which has promoted the conference and to the parliamentary groups that have made it through it. The other day, in Lecce, colleagues, the National Association of Partisans promoted a conference in which, on the subject of Norma Cossetto, pierced and honored with gold medals, there was talk of "presunte foibe": it is a shame that this expression was pronounced in Lecce by the ANPI. I do not see my colleague Segre - indeed, Senator, because I would not want to sin presumptuously, since she is an honor - a senator for life, a woman who experienced the sufferings of the 20th century in person. There is a Commission against hatred, which I would like to set up immediately and condemn all the episodes of hatred and disinformation that are recorded every day in Italy in schools, travels that are made or missed trips (because others are also cancelled, for example if you have to go to Basovizza or elsewhere). In conclusion, Mr President, our motion recalls the memory of the shoah, the travels and the various initiatives that must be made. However, I say to those of the ANPI, who make excuses or speak of'so-called foibe', that on 10 February this Assembly will celebrate the day of remembrance, for which I thank President Alberti Casellati and to which President Fico will also be present; at the Quirinale there will be a concert the day before and, like other colleagues, that day I will be not here in the Chamber, but in Basovizza: there are many anniversaries, but enough with hypocrisy; give honor to the tragedies of the '900, but that they are all remembered; that schools organize trips in the fields of extermination and horror, but do not tear pages of history that are part of the suffering of Italy and the '900. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u26	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who have had the opportunity to take part in a journey of memory know how much this experience marks, especially if you are still young and you are lucky enough to confront the witnesses of the time, that is those people - who are less and less - who have experienced those places and the tragedy of extermination and persecution. We are lucky to have here, as a life senator, Liliana Segre, who in many of her manifestations and initiatives with young people has testified, even in recent times, the effort of memory, memory and suffering that is renewed once again in telling the children, therefore especially to the new generations - absolutely necessary - the drama of those events of which, as a child, was witness. Parliament had the merit of setting up Memory Day in 2000. I think it is a good thing that today the Senate again places the attention of the legislator and also of the Government on how much it is necessary to strengthen initiatives of this kind, such as the journeys of memory, which give the possibility in particular to young generations to confront the reality of those facts and the crudeness of those events. Precisely in times when memory is even more necessary than ever - as unfortunately shows us a recent investigation by Eurispes, which quantified the number of Italians who do not believe that the Shoah existed and therefore deny those events - I think it is desirable that Parliament adopt an agenda shared by all the political forces gathered here in a unanimous way, without distinguishing the nature of the concentration camps of one or the other type, but that it sends a clear message to the country: today more than ever there is a need for memory and to put our young people, boys and students in comparison with the witnesses who can still tell us, with the effort of their memory, how much those facts should be avoided and how much the legislator and Parliament must commit themselves in this sense. [[Applause from Group IV-P.S.I.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I have the soul divided in two at the moment: on the one hand, I am very happy with what this House will be able to do today, if we are able to walk out of these doors unitedly and say, perhaps for the first time, that the entire Italian Senate and all the political forces believe that it is essential - because this is the objective of the motions - that there are journeys of memory and that they are a national fact, no longer limited to the will and capacity of individual organizational realities. I must remember in this House how, for example, these trips were born on the initiative of the then mayor of Rome Walter Veltroni and how fundamental that experience with the first witnesses of memory, who found the strength to accompany the children in those places. As a Member of Parliament, I was fortunate, along with many colleagues, to be in Auschwitz with Sami Modiano and the Bucci sisters who had been there. It's something I'll never forget. I had also been there as a kid and the experience had already been fundamental, but being there with them (which unfortunately will not happen much longer) was something unforgettable. I have a duty to remember the commitment of many municipalities that have promoted these initiatives when they were not yet widespread experiences. I also remember the commitment of the regions that supported them and of the unions that financed many of these trips. It is important and fundamental that this becomes a collective heritage of all, as happened, for example, when Mrs Fedeli went to that field as Minister. On the other hand, my soul divided in two says: welcome to those who arrived, when the prodigal son returns he kills the fat calf. I repeat, welcome to those who arrived. However, we need consistency with what we say every day in this House. The story of the Shoah has an ontologically incomparable dimension with any other story, because it is the daughter of a philosophical and scientific thought that wanted to exterminate a people industrially and completely from the face of the earth. No other massacre has not only this dimension, but also aims, because it is - precisely - a different aim. Let us remember what the witnesses, survivors and those who had the strength to come out alive and with their heads up from that story, stopping being the piece in which he had been transformed and returning to being a man or a woman. These people have gone to the schools to testify so that this doesn't happen again. We violate this memory every day when, with any gesture or word of ours, we take a woman and a man and try to transform him into a piece and discriminate him for what he thinks, that he is, in which he believes and for the God he professes. Today we must therefore commit ourselves to making these journeys more widespread, supporting the actions of all those artists who build memory. Today this memory must be built, because the memory, the one lived and true, will end, but it can be reconstructed with the meta-experience of art. From this point of view, there are extraordinary experiences. I think of all the boys and girls in the schools who incarnated and made them this memory. In my city I witnessed a wonderful experience a few days ago, with the children who became involved in the people who were taken away and screamed at their suffering because at that moment they really felt it. This becomes a memory. If all this is true, ladies and gentlemen, we must make a commitment in this House, everyone - everyone and everyone - and be the judge of each one's conscience, because none of us can judge and lift our finger by saying: you are not consistent with what you are voting in a few minutes. Each one of us and you is responsible, with your own conscience, to think whether when you are pressing the voting button you are making a obvious and easy gesture or a demanding gesture that changes your behavior from tomorrow and for the days to come. When certain words are spoken and certain gestures are made which, unfortunately, we have seen over the past few years, months, weeks and days, we will have to remember and reflect in our own conscience whether they are consistent and compatible with the vote that we will be voting in this House in a few minutes. Everyone thinks about it in the silence of his conscience and remembers. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u30	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u31	Mr President, I begin by quoting from the blog "ildialogodimonza.it" the intervention of a friend, who was the principal of a school in Monza, of which I was also a colleague in the City Council, who is not part of my "political parish," nor of the center-right one (so let's be clear). He writes: "Again the Shoah? Some people today ask this question, as if the continuous story of the story could almost "normalize" it, inducing a feeling of "already felt" harmful to critical awareness. I disagree, for at least three reasons. The first is that re-studying what has been never ceases to clarify to our conscience the need to remember so that it does not happen again. Every year a new story, a new witness, a new historical confrontation help us to become more aware. The second reason is that we have a duty to tell the new generations, increasingly distant chronologically and psychologically from those terrible facts. We must preserve and transmit the memory, more and more precious, at least as many as the direct witnesses become. What has been told to us must become the heritage of all young people. The third reason is that they haven't finished yet, on the contrary, they regain strength, the attempts to minimize, if not eliminate, the awareness about the truthfulness of those facts. To hear after so many years that the gas chambers and crematoria ovens are a frame or at least an exaggeration, it makes us understand that the educational work can never end. I wanted to quote these words, because I recognize myself and I find myself in a person I value, who wrote some very beautiful words on this subject. Once I read the intervention published on this blog, I found myself faced with the sensitivity shown by Senators Pirovano and Rivolta, who convinced the Group to present the motion today under discussion. I think that anti-Semitism, given that some motion, besides talking about the journeys of memory, has entered more into the merit of this issue, is present on the right, as on the left. There is also a third type of anti-Semitism, as some authoritative experts write, imported from Muslim migrations in Europe. It was precisely a Commission of the European Union, commissioned in 2002 by Romano Prodi, that revealed fairly embarrassing truths, confirmed by further findings, which followed in time. For example, in Belgium, according to a 2015 analysis, 68 percent of Muslim immigrants showed this element of anti-Semitism, against 21% of other citizens, in France it was 49 percent, against 17%, in Germany 56 percent versus 16%, in England 57 percent, against 12%. Our opinion is that, perhaps, when we stop saying that anti-Semitism is only on the one hand, or to divide the world among the good, who are always on the one hand, and the bad guys, who are always on the other, we will be able to do a better service to future generations and we will ensure that students know what to do to counter certain issues and to prevent certain phenomena from happening again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Perosino]] So this is the way we all have to go. Among other things, there is the will - it seems to me that the President of the Senate told the Conference of the Leaders - to organize a trip, with the representatives of each group, to visit the extermination camps, with an act that offers an additional important political significance, by the whole Senate. We are not opposed to drawing up a unitary motion, since so many have been tabled, but we believe that today it is more significant, precisely because of the reasoning I have made, that the League votes on the majority motion, that the majority votes on the motion of the League, that the majority votes on the motion of Forza Italia and that Forza Italia votes on the majority motion, since the motions for our examination are three. Perhaps such a gesture would be more significant, because the single document is often the child of a compromise and on these issues, in my opinion, there must be no compromise. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u32	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u33	Mr President, allow me to start with a budget: it has been fifteen years since the day of memory was introduced in Italy on the initiative of a colleague, journalist Furio Colombo. After fifteen years, I believe that a small budget should be made. It is undoubtedly a positive budget because it has achieved some of its objectives, namely to raise public awareness and eliminate the ignorance that is perhaps the main vulnus when it comes to defending humanitarian values. There are, however, also negative aspects, Mr President, and some journalists and intellectuals say so too. Just behind this date, the most violent acts against Israel, the most violent anti-Semitic acts, the most violent acts against the Jews are concentrated. Paradoxically, it is right next to January 27 that in the chronicles, unfortunately, stands out this violence. 11:21 a.m. (Follow SACCONE). So I think we can't help but start from this fact because it's useful to look at the past, but it's absolutely insignificant if we don't do it to build a future where hatred doesn't prevail. Let me say, Mr President, that in the process of nationalization of the masses, it was important and useful to find an enemy. The Italian fascist totalitarianism identified him in the Jews, so, from night to day, it began to pursue them, to hunt them out and to send them to die. I therefore believe that politics must do something more, because unfortunately what has been done so far is insufficient. I want to say this very clearly: one cannot but tie the day of remembrance to our consideration of the State of Israel. Even today, in so much public opinion, there are those who support the idea that Israel should not exist. We cannot disconnect these two principles: it is useless to remember the atrocities committed against the Jews if at the same time we do not support the reasons of those who want to exist. Israel is a democracy, the only one in that geopolitical quadrant and so far someone still does not recognize it. Even today it is not recognized that in a democracy the fundamental principles only the prosperity and peace of the people. And then, if again, in this House too, there are those who do not recognize this projection of the Israeli people and government, that means that they do not respect the memory of those six million Jews. This hypocrisy must be overcome because Israel is a democratic country, anyone of us who goes there can easily see it, and when there was a chance of mutual respect with Egypt, with the peace treaties of Camp David, Israel sat down and made peace. If we do not start from this assumption, these days do not serve. For that very process, history is needed to build a better future. Allow me to conclude with a passage from the book of Primo Levi, "the truce," which speaks of a young boy who managed to survive the extermination camps: "I felt the warm wave of feeling free, of feeling man makes men, of feeling alive, of flowing away from me. I was suddenly old, exhausted, tired beyond any human measure: war is not over, war is always over. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u34	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Scientific Lyceum "Sandro Pertini" in Ladispoli, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u36	Mr President, in this House we have been reminded of the data of the last Eurispes Italia 2020 report, which send us a disturbing picture of the serious increase in negationism both in the sense of denying with awareness, but also of ignoring the existence of facts. Recently the chronicles have reported anti-Semitism with the affixion of the symbol of the star of David near houses or to report houses of Jewish families. We also talked about the importance of school and the teaching of history. True, our history manuals are updated, and therefore contain information about the twentieth century, that century that Eric Hobsbawm called a short century, that he started in 1914 and ended in 1991, a dense century, full of facts, in which many of the dynamics that today help us or better would help us understand the phenomena in progress, if we were aware of those historical facts and had deepened and metabolized the knowledge of those experiences. The teaching of history, however, if you see updated manuals, is still struggling to find the time to devote to the study of this important century. Perhaps then, without calling into question the longings of the past, we should all question how to distribute the teaching and therefore the learning of history and the facts that build our history as a nation, but also as a country in an international context, in the course of teaching the school of obligation. It is clear, in fact, that if the problem is lack of time, the first question we have to ask ourselves is how to make the economy of this time and how to make the best use of it. I would therefore like to see an impulse coming from this day to act precisely in this direction for those who take care of school, for those who daily engage to debate on how to improve the Italian school, which already gives so much to our students. Closely linked to the knowledge of the facts and therefore to the historical reconstruction, there is definitely the memory. In this regard I would like to mention Marcus Garvey, a very important figure of the Pan-African movement of the early twentieth century, who has dealt with another great, forgotten diaspora, that of the African people, deported en masse to foreign countries during the period of the slave trade. Referring to that diaspora, which affected 11 million people, Marcus Garvey reminded us - I would like to paraphrase it with my own addition - that a people, without knowing their history, origins and culture, is like a tree without roots. Even a people without memory, therefore, is like a tree without roots. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In Italy, however, we struggle to exercise our memory. In fact, not only the nodes that concern the fascist twenty years remain to be dissolved, but also other historical nodes, such as that of our colonial experience in Africa. I therefore believe that from this day must also be born the impulse to question us and to give life, within the schools, to a reflection that does not lead to a removal of the collective memory regarding chapters of our history that have been tragic and that we have metabolized or removed giving life to narratives that quieted and helped us to deal with a past with which, indeed, we struggle to deal with. But I would like us to face those knots with great courage and finally untie them. Only in this way, in fact, will we be able to share, as a community, for that journey of memory that, through an experience of knowledge and an individual experience, will make us face, even in a more objective, more critical and more conscious way, the challenges that today the present imposes us when we talk about migratory flows and other issues that, I play force, confront us with the history of other peoples, that perhaps intersects with ours, and we do not even know it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u37	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u38	Mr President, before I express my views, I would just like to make a few comments, on the basis of the motions and the debate that has taken place, simply to say that there is a great deal of agreement on the content and tone of this House, including on my part and on the part of the Government. I share, of course, many of the things I have heard and, beyond, of course, political positions, differences and nuances, at the heart of this House, there is a very positive choir, in my opinion, and the shared need to make the most of this day of memory and, therefore, everything that the school can do, over the months and years that will come, to encourage travel as much as possible, conveying memory as decisive and indispensable element of our action. It is true that the research data for Eurispes, which are very worrying, have been mentioned. Indeed, over the years, we have had a very significant growth of people who either deny the existence of Auschwitz and the extermination camps or are not aware of them. This is a condition which, of course, as you well understand, represents a great problem for those who are concerned, like us, with education and training in this country. I also very much share the reflection of those who claim that knowledge is the only possibility that our country probably has, through the action of Government and Parliament, to try to attack this dramatic fact that the researches of Eurispes have demonstrated. Who knows me knows that, not from today, I think that the Italian school, which despite everything is still a great democratic pillar and is still a great civil infrastructure, as I like to call it, must not simply train workers and workers (it must, of course, also do that, because it must put our students in the labour market), but must first form citizens, it must form critical thinking, it must form free spirits. So, as is quite clear, an approach such as that we are discussing this morning is absolutely crucial. This is even more true in the light of another consideration, which I feel I am doing and which I have also heard in a lot of speeches this morning. I too happened, about twenty days ago, to be in Auschwitz, on the journey of memory organized by the MIUR, and to be in the company, on that journey, of this extraordinary woman, mentioned in this Chamber, who is called Tatiana Bucci, who is a survivor, an eyewitness of those days and of those dramatic events. An important Israeli historian says that they count more than 5 minutes of visual testimony of who in the extermination camps there was, than thousands and thousands of pages written by all historians of the world. Now, maybe yours is an exaggeration, maybe it's a provocation, but there's a lot of truth in that sentence. Of course, there is a big issue. Long live, of course, to Tatiana Bucci, long life in Liliana Segre and long life to all those who have been in the extermination camps, but, inevitably, the day will come when these people will no longer be there. We shall have, and will have the younger generations who will come after us, even more then the moral duty to transmit this memory, when the eyewitnesses will no longer be among us and when, in twenty or fifty or one hundred years' time, the memory of the Shoah, of what happened in Western Europe in the 1920s and the 1930s, risks being covered by a oblivion that would obviously be unacceptable, as the eyewitnesses themselves say, that they are very concerned, as is well understood, about this aspect. With regard to this oblivion, I think that we must work very hard on the great issue of the transmission of knowledge. We must try to do this work in our schools; we must very much encourage moments of discussion. I too have happened these days to participate in various schools of Italy in initiatives that have wanted to remember the Shoah. 11.35 a.m. (De Cristofaro followed). We must never stop, as if it were a great assailant, asking ourselves the same question, which is then the decisive question: why could it happen? Why could it have happened that in Europe in the 1930s it developed, around concepts that had a previous history, what was then mass extermination and the Shoah? I always remember, also in this case, quoting the surviving witnesses and the sentence of a witness who said: it was not only Hitler and Himmler who sent me to the extermination camps, but they were the neighbor, the baker, the baker, the school professor. What happened in the 1930s in civil Europe to determine all this? I believe that this question is unfortunately not overlooked; it is the assailant and the basic question that we should always ask ourselves. I think that the Italian school should do a great job from this point of view. The memory travel programme has been developed in recent years; several students have been involved; I think I can say that a good job has been done, but it is true that it must be encouraged, improved and supported. This consideration concerns the more general need to invest more in school and public education, and concerns the need to have a greater investment. From this point of view, I believe that this parliamentary initiative can be very important and positive. I shall conclude by expressing my views on the motions put forward. I am in favour of motion 208, first signed by Senator Salvini. On motion 211, at the first signature of Senator Bernini, I give a favourable opinion on the first commitment and with rewording on the second commitment, simply adding, after the word "allocation" and before the words "annual resources" to the Municipalities, the following words: "in compliance with budgetary constraints" On motion 212, first signed by Senator Marcucci, I welcome the first two commitments. On the third commitment I give a favourable opinion with rewording, inserting, after the word "integrate" and before the words "university courses" the words: "in compliance with university autonomy and in coherence with the educational objectives". I welcome the fourth commitment if the following rewording is accepted: "to promote the initiatives of universities which, in the exercise of their autonomy, intend to include, among others, the fight against anti-Semitism in the objectives of the so-called third mission, to be carried out in an interdisciplinary way." I am in favour of the fifth and sixth commitments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u39	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u42	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Nazism and fascism are not opinions, they are crimes. This concept should be clear to everyone, but unfortunately it is not. There are more and more cases of apology of fascism and Nazism, unfortunately also by people who should send a different message. A professor of philosophy of the law of the University of Siena praises the Führer by explaining to those who dispute him that, although he was never a saint, he at that time defended Europe from the true monsters, those who today rule the world. But I also think of the bottles of wine with the faces of Hitler and Mussolini sold as if they were harmless souvenirs, choirs, banners and Roman greetings in the stadiums, posts on social networks that praise the two authoritarian regimes, the propaganda of extreme Right with conspiracy theories on the world order or denial of the existence of the Holocaust itself. In front of this poison, memory is an antidote of fundamental importance. The Holocaust was the final point of a path that began with discrimination, racial laws, physical and cultural segregation. This is why we must never underestimate certain signs, we must never lower our guard, but we must always block them in the bud. It is shocking the survey according to which 15 out of 100 Italians say they do not believe the holocaust. This also demonstrates the importance of the memory to be transmitted, a witness to pass on to every generation to safeguard and affirm the value of democracy, the rule of law and the sacredness of human life. Memory travels are important, touching the horror of concentration camps. It would be important that all Italian boys could make, at least once in their lives, such a journey, because it is a moment of existential growth, an experience that you do not forget all your life. We know that the role of school and education is decisive to convey to children the right values, to equip them with tools for critical exercise: they are fundamental in an age dangerously traversed by false information and negational propaganda. I believe, however, that, together with memory, we must review the crimes of apology for fascism, prohibiting all forms of propaganda. At the beginning of the parliamentary term we have also re-presented in this branch of Parliament the draft law aimed at strengthening the Mancino law, pursuing not only collective behaviors, but also the individual behaviors of the apology of fascism. There can be no margin of tolerance for certain behaviors; individual responsibility must also be pursued, just as it is necessary to break the propaganda dynamics behind the sale of gadgets and other instruments, which are not harmless at all but are an offense to memory and suffering that too many have suffered. As the motion No 212 provides, we need comprehensive action, both on the cultural and on the normative front, if we really want to convey to the full the values of the sacredness of human life, freedom and equality. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-P.S.I. Groups and Misto-Leu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u45	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on memory day it is important to remember the most serious of the genocides and all those who have followed each other throughout the history of humanity. It is important to do so for the human dynamic that is proposed when some human beings decide to exterminate a race as such, some people as belonging to a religion, when they exterminate individuals, they want to erase their history, the remembrance to the world of what they have built. Today I would therefore like to recall what happened in the last century with the Armenian Holocaust, with the Shoah that we remember today, but also the Cambodian genocide, that of the Tutsis in Rwanda, that of Bosnian Muslims by the army of the Serbian Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is to say that the human being is capable of atrocities, of destroying his fellow humans, driven by fanatical hatred. He does it when he forgets; he does it a few years later, he forgets quickly. For this reason, continuing to remember is of immense value, priceless. It is necessary to keep remembering the mistakes made, because the human being can be very dangerous. When the Eurispes data tell us that 30 percent of Italians today deny, do not know, do not want to know or do not want to remember what happened eighty years ago and a few kilometers from here, to Italian Jewish citizens, seed for a rebirth of hatred among peoples. This is very dangerous. With the day of memory today we therefore have the privilege of hearing the voice of those atrocities who have lived them on their own and we have the responsibility, tomorrow more than today, to continue to remember, because we must be witnesses and in turn tell what others, like Senator Segre, are telling us. Everything was born discrimination; everything was born denying children to play with other children, without any apparent motivation, without any real and human motivation. People have been excluded from their jobs, from schools, public places, from the army; they have been prevented from going to holiday resorts, from owning a radio, from belonging to cultural and sports associations. All this has generated an escalation of violence, because from the discrimination of the human being we have come to divide families, to plunder their homes, to arrest, to deport and to exterminate. Therefore, the red thread between racial laws and what Nazism has accomplished is evident and must be clear to all of us. Destroying people, denying human dignity, with gas chambers, torture and medical experiments is something our children need to know and see with their own eyes. When men and women commit such violence they must be stopped. In Italy and Europe we have decided to impose rules on us that impose a way of civil and respectful coexistence, but when human beings degenerate it is essential to stop them. The UN should also have the opportunity to intervene much more vigorously than it can do today. Today we remember and the dismay and fear we feel allows us to relive. And re-living makes us immune and safer. That is why we are committed to doing so every year and we are committed to ensuring that the institutions are always ready to bear witness to what has happened. We invite schools to make sure that our children can identify, visit those places, read and study and feel the same dismay and fear that we feel today and we want to try again. Humans can choose not to give the worst of themselves. We are voting in favour of these motions today, because we choose the best part of the human being. [[Applause from Group IV-P.S.I.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, today is an important day and it can give an equally important signal, especially after the publication of the shocking data of the Eurispes - mentioned by all - telling us that, by adding those who deny the Shoah (15.6 percent) and those who reduce it very much (16.1 percent), more than 30% of Italians in fact deny what happened. All the more so today the debate on these motions and the vote that follows are a very important signal. It cannot, however, be just a rhetorical debate, which we forget the day after the vote on motions. The rawness of the data is in my opinion absolutely shocking and unfortunately, in recent times, it is accompanied by equally shocking episodes. Think, for example, of what happened a few days ago in Mondovì, where a person's home, the daughter of an ex-deported person, was marked. We have certainly done an important job with the journeys of memory, but somehow in our society the guard has lowered. Liliana Segre, with her beautiful speech to the European Parliament, in bringing her testimony once again, reminded us of some things. First of all, he reminded us of the first duty, which is to combat racism; then he reminded us how the word "race" was used. It is a warning that must accompany the commitment that we take today, because too many have been in recent times, in our country and not only, throughout Europe, episodes of racial hatred. Those figures show that anti-Semitism continues to come back to history. I want to quote Primo Levi, who reminded us that it has happened and can still happen. It happened in civil Europe, in the heart of Western civilization, and it happened in the indifference of most people, even after. On January 27 we celebrate the day of memory, when the Red Army entered Auschwitz; but for a long time the survivors had difficulty talking, because there was for years a removal of what had happened, of that horror. Our duty today is not only not to lower our guard, but also to engage in the journeys of memory and knowledge. As the Undersecretary rightly said, only those who know, who really know the horror they have experienced, can choose to be a free man or a free woman and to oppose all subtle attempts, perhaps underestimated, to push hatred. In the history of this civilized Europe, as my colleague mentioned earlier, the horrors have returned. Certainly the Shoah has its own uniqueness, because in that case the extermination, the final solution had been organized. But the most important thing, I repeat, is knowledge. We must ensure that there is indeed a strong initiative within schools, not only through memory travel, but also through teacher training. Negationism at the historical level was an absolutely residual and secondary fact; today that too has changed. Even in the world of historiographic research, therefore, we must do a very important job and it is among the commitments of the motions. In fact, memory cannot be kept and transmitted only by the survivors, who unfortunately with the years are less and less, but it is we who must commit ourselves so that within society they are our children, the young people, the elements that carry on this memory. So we transmit the memory, but in them, as in all society, the antibodies must grow. This is the most important thing: to a cursed virus, such as racism and anti-Semitism, one must respond with a vaccine that increases antibodies within society. This is the most important commitment that we must make. Mr Rampi said well in his speech - and I agree with him on the floor - the act we are doing with motions is important, but we cannot just wash our consciences. Each of us has a responsibility: we are parliamentarians, we are senators, whatever we say and do has a weight. And, therefore, even more so, we must be bearers, in our conscience and in the way we carry out our political work, not only of this memory but also of antibodies against all forms of racism and anti-Semitism. I think this is the most important thing. I would like to conclude with a sentence from the speech that our colleague Liliana Segre gave in Brussels, which is a message for young people, a message of love for life and a wish. Liliana Segre in this effort, in this pain of hers, but also in this duty of witness of remembrance she hoped that the yellow butterfly would always fly over the barbed wires. It is the message of life, the message that we must try to convey to our children. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u51	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, thank you and I thank all my colleagues clearly. I speak with a great sense of responsibility on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group on the motions we are discussing. Today is February 5th, a date that stands - I don't know if casually - between two days equally important for our historical memory: the Memorial Day of January 27th and the Memory Day of February 10th. These are two dates that recall tragic moments in our European history; two dates that recall atrocities that certainly go beyond politics and history. Moments that must remind each one of us, from left to right, how man on too many occasions has not been able to live up to that humanity that should characterize us instead. And, therefore, if so, I can only welcome the invitation that has been made to us in some of the speeches that preceded me to vote cross-cuttingly and unitedly on the motions that have been tabled. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Brothers of Italy have demonstrated and demonstrated their consistency: in fact, we did not want to present a further motion on the specific subject, precisely because we believe that a united motion should be voted on. On the other hand, we would like - and in this regard we would like to call on the House and the Presidency - to soon discuss a wider motion on anti-Semitism, such as that which the Brothers of Italy have lodged since last year, which wants to make sure that this historical phenomenon is justified and debated in a broader dimension, assessing the dangers which unfortunately today - and not yesterday - concern this situation. I am referring in particular to anti-Judaism, which unfortunately pervades today not only the most extreme and reactionary fringes of the right and left, but also - alas - that Islamic world which today is lived as a grave danger to the very existence of a people and also of a country such as Israel. We therefore hope that we will soon be able to broaden our reasoning on this issue. On the substance, as I said, we are absolutely in favour. President, we believe that reflecting on the day of memory means reflecting on how to protect individual freedoms and human beings today, beyond any characterization of race, religion and political ideology. We therefore welcome all initiatives that want to bring more culture and knowledge. When we talk about culture and knowledge, we must talk about cross-cutting culture and knowledge and of course no one must be afraid to open their closets and deal with their past. I say this honestly and proudly from the right and I am sure that we will also be able to do it on the other political side. Certainly atrocities cannot be colored and must be condemned regardless of historical, political or temporal parts. We must therefore protect the memory and make our young people especially aware of the atrocities of the past on peoples who - alas - have had to serve human evil. I am of course referring first of all to the Jewish people and to what happened to the Armenians, the Kurds, the Ukrainians and the many political opponents who, in the various realities of our world, yesterday and today, are unfortunately discriminated against, vexed and killed for their own ideas. It is not a memory of the past, but it is a perpetuation in the present of human atrocities that we must condemn precisely by reminding ourselves that history is truly magistra vitae (teacher of life) or, at least, it should be. We can only refer, as a political synthesis, to the European Union's resolution which, of course, condemned all totalitarianism and which, by doing so, wants to condemn, without barriers and fences, the atrocities of the past and the situations of the present in which, unfortunately, the human being as a man and a person continues to be denigrated. As far as the journeys of knowledge are concerned, it is certainly a good thing that we can learn not only from textbooks. It is good that by using the senses that nature has endowed us (view, touch), but also feelings and feelings, our young people can go to the places where these tragic events have been consumed. Of course, the financing and economic support that we, together with you, ask the Government to implement these journeys, go in parallel with a greater overall interest in the school system. Let us remember that we cannot wash our conscience by taking only one part: if we really want to create young people who represent the democratic future of this country, we must invest in school and educational institutions. It is therefore an appeal that I address to the Government in this sense: for Brothers of Italy - and I repeat it loudly - I support these journeys, but we should also, and above all, support all our schools and educational institutions. Mr President, there is a reflection that I want to make in order to clarify a misunderstanding that has arisen in recent months, when we and part of the centre-right were accused of not applauding our fellow Senator Liliana Segre. Precisely because this is not the time for partisanism and partiality, I would like to make it clear that at that moment the abstention vote of Brothers of Italy was linked to the fact that we wanted a Commission that had greater anti-Semitic value and was less instrumentally usable, as we have clearly said, perhaps for the purposes of censorship. The vote was therefore specific on the Commission and had absolutely no reference to the figure of our colleague Liliana Segre, to whom I confirm here all our closeness and the warmest and most fraternal embrace by the community of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC groups and Senator Lunesu.]] I take this opportunity, also on behalf of our President Giorgia Meloni, to renew her invitation to be present at our next national festival in Atreju. In the light of this clarification, I really conclude by reaffirming the vote of Brothers of Italy in favour of the motions, which, in our opinion, should recompact in a united motion and represent, beyond any fence, the will of a House of Parliament to be a Chamber of freedom and dignity of the human being. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u54	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is always important when a Parliament is called upon to discuss memory. The colleague who spoke before me called them trips of knowledge or simply travels: they are journeys of memory. Inside this last word there is a fundamental content: memory carries with it the will to be preserved and the construction of a shared vision of the past. It is therefore important for us to speak and define these journeys as "memory journeys," precisely because for us memory has this value. Speaking about these motions is very important and for me it is a source of pride, because these trips really need to be strengthened: it takes a very strong economic commitment, but also raising awareness of the entire teaching body and school directors to ensure that more and more classes and schools participate in these events. I heard a speech at the beginning of this debate full of "I": the memory is of all and shared; each of us speaks for our own Group and for a community, but all of us who have had the immense fortune to participate in a journey of memory - it happened to me when I was City Councillor with Mayor Veltroni - we must maintain this dimension of plurality. The idea of sharing a memory, teaching it and transmitting it to our kids is fundamental, it's not a personal fortune. I often say that I've traveled around the world, but the most beautiful and deepest I've ever done and I remember why he left me a mark was in Auschwitz. Let me remind you of the honor that many of us have had in making these trips: I happened to travel with my friend Terracina, recently disappeared. How many more times will it be possible to send a class with one of the survivors? There is very little time left, colleagues, and it is less and less of these heroic elderly people who retrace the pain of the tattoo they have on their skin and speak firsthand. This is the reason for these motions and this commitment to sharing the memory of a community, which must not be trivialized, but shared, including within it all the horrors and not talking about it in the past because, today, now, in this minute, there is a place in the world where that horror that we intend to seal today within the journeys of memory exists and is being perpetrated. We do not believe that, at this moment, there are no horrors in any field or people tortured, exploited and locked up just for what they freely think. I would like to address the only representative of the Government present in this Chamber, Mr De Cristofaro, whose sensitivity I am aware of: attention also to the renewal of acts relating to our international policy, because some horrors are taking place before our eyes and perhaps we are too distracted. I go forward precisely on the concept of memory not to be trampled on, denied and trivialized, precisely because there are facts that happen every day. How many stumbling stones, even in our Rome, have been offended, damaged, devastated? How many municipalities, also around here, trivialize the memory entrusting in a broken way (I use this term because I want to be educated) conferences and acts to associations or characters chatted? Memory is a value and its trivialization is, in my opinion, a drama. What is there to do then? What do we want to do with these motions? We want to affirm our resistance (I do not use this word at random) to every regurgitation of anti-Semitism, racism and hatred towards the different. Turns and turns, in recent times and months - I must say in the last year - we always go back there, to the word hate for the different. Why? This is exactly where we play the construction of our living together, of the deepest sense of social cohesion and of the preservation of the values of respect and inclusion that are inspired by our Constitution. Colleagues, the journeys of memory are important and - I told you - they will soon be the only tool to make that memory survive as our heroes survive will turn off. Therefore, the awareness of our roots and the ability to walk together towards a well-known and shared future are at our will. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that when there is no longer anyone who can tell what he has seen with his own eyes, touched and immediately on his own skin - in this, I wish Mr Segre more than a hundred years old - it will be our duty to transfer his memory. But it will also be a duty of education, education and education. Ask our children and grandchildren where the history program stops in our schools and high schools. What year of the short century does it stop? You get to 1915-1918? Maybe. You get to 20 years? Maybe. True insight into the years of horror is often fast, fleeting and superficial at the end of the last year of school. Here we need a real commitment, educational, educational, cultural and school, also from our teachers. Mr President, with a little regret I see that our request for shared work to draw up a single motion to be voted on together has not been accepted. I have to say that this is a missed opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. Many nice words but - then - a missed opportunity. I hope there aren't any other back thoughts. In any case, we will vote in favour of these texts. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups, and the Senators Bressa and Sbrollini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u57	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking; I say 'I' but it is a 'I' of witness and not, of course, of self-centeredness. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am speaking, as Senator Pirovano has done, to show that the visit to a concentration and extermination camp changes life, as many colleagues have reported. So I want to share two memories with my colleagues. When I was very young, I was shocked by how my father, a very strong man, was shocked to read a book about concentration camps. I remember then the formative power, inner and growing, that generated in me and my husband the choice to visit the camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau, together with a group of parliamentarians, during the sixteenth legislature, with Walter Veltroni and the witnesses, who wanted to accompany us: Nedo Fiano, Andra and Tatiana Bucci, Piero Terracina, Sami Modiano. It is actually an unforgettable moment: life changes and you realize on your skin, exciting and feeling the same way, what happened in that place. It's really an unforgettable experience, but it doesn't stop there. Senator Pirovano asked to fly high today and that is what we must do, because we play a fundamental role for our country. So let's try to fly high. Other colleagues have asked us to be consistent, to testify every day, and that is exactly the point. I think that in order to do this we need first of all a dowry, which is often forgotten in this place: humility, which is space to understand others, to grow, to form and to give; this is an important aspect. Then there is the testimony, which we too can do: it is true that the survivors will disappear in one, two or ten years and we, who have visited these places of extermination, will be able to become witnesses in our turn. It is the same principle contained in the motion that we propose: all young people and students who can make this visit in turn will become powerful witnesses. I am taking an example, very important, which I have seen in my hometown, where I am a city councilman for education. For a project on bullying, the teachers of the scientific high school "Galileo Galilei" trained the boys, who in turn will form other boys. At the moment when you can teach and transmit, it means that you have that concept, that emotion and that power and that they have been internalized. We have to do this: it is the only recipe. So, in its simplicity, our motion proposes to allocate additional important sums - better if they are double, triple or ten times as much - so that as young and as many students as possible can experience this experience. I would also add, since I have had this experience in Parliament itself, that it would be desirable for us Members of Parliament to organise trips to prison camps and extermination camps, because we can see when people have not been there and have not touched with their hands: the pathos is completely different. We can do so much also in schools, remembering also the incredible history of all the Just, even Italians. I remember Giorgio Perlasca, comasco like me, who saved more than 5,000 Jews by pretending to be a Spanish diplomat. Unbelievable! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and PD Groups]] We also have a classroom dedicated to him in the Palace of Spanish Heritage. He was an extraordinary person, like Carlo Angela, like Gino Bartali, like many priests or insurers; there is everything: there are people who may have saved only one life or people who saved thousands of them. Honour to them. With these moments, we give gratitude, respect and honor to all those survivors who have lived on their own skin the horror of that hell and we also recognize the value of their testimony. One colleague, in a previous speech, recalled how there has been so much silence, how the desire for rebirth at the end of the war has led many not to say what they had lived, on the one hand because the world went towards a future that had to be better, on the other, in my opinion, for the uncontrollable horror that had to be stopped with a big stone. Later, however, almost everyone, after many years, found the courage to reopen that drawer full of horror and pain and to become witnesses, in schools, in life, with writings, movies and so on. This has an incredible power, really too important. I remember, for example, that in the Chamber of Deputies there was the visit of Elie Wiesel, Nobel Peace Prize winner, and I still remember, as if it were today, the three because, when he asked why all this had happened: "Why, why, why?" No one, even today, can give an understandable explanation of why this has happened. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But as Primo Levi wrote: It happened, so it could happen again. That means we all have to commit ourselves. And so let all the motions come along: I do not think there is a desire to arrive at a united motion, I simply think there can be a later moment, with more time, to take further steps and submit further documents together. Today we take the commitment, with great intellectual honesty and beyond the political lines because this is a battle of civilization, to vote in favour of all three motions presented. It is important, however, as some other colleagues have said, that we build a path that does not stop. If we base our lives on respect, humility, witness and coherence, we can improve the world (of course, in everyday life and in small things). Above all, we must try to reach those "sacches" of young people who are more indifferent, because they are born and raised in more fragile, more violent contexts, of greater ignorance, and teach them that we can clash with the rules but on the dignity of people we can never compromise. I think we need to work hard on this and we - Daisy Pirovano and the entire League Group with Matteo Salvini and our Parent Company - are ready to do this. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u58	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Economic and Social High School of Turin, Queen Margherita, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u61	MOLES (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on 27 January, as has been said in all the other speeches, it is the day chosen to honour the memory of the Holocaust, which brought the extermination of millions of innocent people during the Second World War; the memory of this historical tragedy cannot and must not relive, however, only during the Day of Memory, but every day and through every possible instrument so that it does not forget. Welcome are travels, but also diaries, documents, testimonies of survivors to this horrible page of man's history. Let us read and reread these testimonies, let us listen to them live if we can, because one day these people will be no longer there and it will be up to us to keep alive their truths and their stories and remember that of the few survivors their bodies have been freed from the fields but their souls have remained and will remain captive of the memories of their tears It is not a beautiful country where almost 16% believe that the Shoah never existed. Knowing history, studying history, remembering and passing on history in schools and beyond, wherever possible: only the things you forget can come back. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u62	I renew the call to remain silent during the speeches of my colleagues, more on this day.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u63	MOLES (FIBP-UDC). There are different ways of living this memory: looking to the past, the present or the future. In my opinion, the only honest and constructive way is to make it an opportunity for reflection in the whole field: an opportunity to study history, but also to reflect on evil, on indifference towards the destiny of the other, so that what happened does not happen anymore. Finding the right phrase and devoting a particular thought to Memory Day requires sensitivity and a delicate touch for such a tragedy, because so great was what happened that often words may not have the capacity to represent its meaning. It is tremendously difficult to remember the Holocaust and the Shoah without risking slipping into trivial reflections, in ordinary reasonings, in words full of rhetoric. I have been afraid that the knowledge of why the remembrance of the Holocaust is so important has been weakened, but it is a moral and ethical obligation to remember, because one cannot and must not forget. Remembering is a duty: we must not and do not want to forget and above all we do not want the world to forget. The lagers were not an accident, what happened was not a fortuitous event in history. I remember Hannah Arendt: "The actions were monstrous, but he who did them was almost normal, neither demonic nor monstrous." The memory of the Holocaust and the concentration camps must remain in everyone's mind, so that no one can forget it, but especially so that no one can dispute it. This is a theme that must unite everyone, without whether or not. There can be no distinctions of part, because on the Holocaust, which was the absolute evil, there are in no way admissible revisionism, ambiguity, negationism or understatement. The concentration camps must remain as a place of reflection and warning for all those who will come after, so that it is known and remembered forever that men have caused other men to be reduced to no longer be human beings but only the evil numbers tattooed, no longer name, identity, memories, feelings and dignity and all for the planned final solution. A few years separate us from the most frightening mass crime in modern history, a crime that shows how far the moral conscience of humanity can regress; the Holocaust has come to define inhumanity in our time, so much so as to be the dead bell of the Enlightenment, a sinking into the depths of humanity, unthinkable for those who consider history a growing path of progress and civilization. If there is still a post-Holocaust ethic and morality today, each individual is now required to remember and the effort to intervene against any Holocaust, because it is good to keep in mind that mass discrimination and the Holocaust have been achieved and we get there little at a time, with silence and carelessness. If there is a human propensity to forget, then it is even more important today to reflect on what has happened, in order to prevent such a criminal act from happening again. Today it is even more important to remember: to remember those who have lost their lives and those who have survived the horror of concentration camps, to avoid forgetting what happened in those dark years for the history of humanity. Senator colleagues, the historical memory of the Holocaust and all the mass exterminations of the last century concerns the whole of humanity: gulag, Cuba, Rwanda, former Yugoslavia, again and again. If the truth is the only ransom there can be, memory is the only way to keep it intact. Confuting the racial disaster that occurred during the Second World War is a crime, without doubt the judgment, both because it is impossible to annihilate a historical truth full of irrefutable evidence and because it would be dangerous blindness, potential prelude of others, in which man, not only does not understand the weight of a historical reality but is disposed to the inattention about the hypothesis that it may reappear. This is a distraction that no one can afford, because that would mean not understanding what it has been and what the gravity of a recent and tragic age is where man has shown his worst part. (at 12.30 a.m.) (Following MOLES). Contesting any testimony of an event of this magnitude means mitigating the reality of history, subtracting its instructive meaning, turning its head again in the face of a suffering that has occurred, that has been repeated and could be repeated. To negotiate or devalue history is to lie about man and a disaster, so terrible but not unknown, that humanity must continue to recognize, preserving its memory. Primo Levi said: "The lager [...] is the product of a conception of the world brought to its consequences with strict consistency: as long as the conception exists, the consequences threaten us. The history of the fields of destruction should be understood by all as a sinister sign of danger. Faced with the weight of the testimony, not only of the Shoah, but of the human limit that it bears witness, all, and especially the new generations, must then have the opportunity to visit those places of horror, so that those places help them to keep alive the memory or make known to them that infamy and madness, in order not to risk ignoring that, sometimes, it is possible to lose reason and give voice to mad and senseless hatred. Those who do not know the past are doomed to repeat it. Therefore, the remembrance of the Holocaust must be a warning to the present and the future. The exterminations, all exterminations, are black pages of a historical phase that must never again be repeated. Memory should then serve as a vaccine for aberrations. The children of this memory are the children they cannot hate. In conclusion, Mr President, if we do not want to lose the memory of when man gave up his humanity, then meditate on what has happened is up to everyone. It is everyone's duty to remember what has happened! For all this and without trivial distinction, I announce the favorable vote of Forza Italia, are not to our motion, but to all the other motions presented. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u66	MAIORIN (M5S). The human memory is a wonderful but fallacious instrument. This is a worn out truth, known not only to psychologists, but also to anyone who has paid attention to the behavior of those around him, or to his own behavior. The memories that lie in us are not engraved on the stone; not only do they tend to erase themselves over the years, but they often change, or even grow, incorporating foreign features [...]. This lack of reliability of our memories will be satisfactorily explained only when we know in which language, in which alphabet they are written, on which material, with which pen; to date, this is a destination from which we are far from. Thus, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Primo Levi warns, at the beginning of the first chapter, 'The memory of the offence', in his book 'I sommersi e i salvati', written in 1986, now forty years after his experience in the Auschwitz camp. With calm tones but a firm look, Levi looked at the most purulent recesses of the "banality of evil," showing its familiar face, whatever, disguised by normality and duty. A shy witness of horror, he warns us: commemorating the Shoah is necessary, but it is not enough. Even under normal conditions... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, is it possible to have some silence in this House? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I would ask you to be silent because my colleague cannot move forward. At least don't give me your back. Please, Senator Maiorino, continue. MAIORIN (M5S). Thank you. Even under normal conditions - continues Levi - is at work a slow degradation, a blurring of the contours, a physiological oblivion, so to speak, to which few memories resist. It is likely that one of the great forces of nature can be recognized here, the same one that degrades order in disorder, youth in old age, and extinguishes life in death. It is certain that the exercise (in this case, the frequent re-enactment) keeps the memory fresh and alive. But it is also true that a memory too often evoked, and expressed in the form of a tale, tends to fix itself in a stereotype, in a form tested by experience, crystallized, perfected, adorned, which is installed instead of crude memory and grows at its expense. This is perhaps the cause of the revival, certified by various agencies and monitoring agencies, of the phenomenon of anti-Semitism, and more generally of the language and hate crimes against minorities and the weakest people of society, which we are witnessing in our time. We tend to think that it is always in other places and in other times that the most atrocious facts occur; never here, never now. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator. Sometimes there's some interruption. MAIORIN (M5S). I'm trying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues of the League! Mr Calderoli, would you ask colleagues next to you to be silent? Senator Maiorino can't move on. MAIORIN (M5S). Our sensitivity is endowed with such a view that it cannot always focus on what is very close to us. Keeping our eyes fixed on that point, which is increasingly farther in history, we tend to lose sight of, or underestimate, the signs that today sends us. Yet, it is precisely today, it is in this particular historical juncture that retracing the stages that led to the horrors of the Shoah seems absolutely necessary, perhaps salvific. It is only by keeping alive the memory, not as a rhetorical exercise, but by really grafting it into the present, that one can hope to turn away the iattura of a tragic prophecy: "A sceptical generation faces adulthood," Levi writes, "and beware that here it is talking about us, about us who are adults today - "without ideals but certainties, indeed, distrustful of the great truths revealed; instead willing to accept the small, changing truths from month to month on the convulsive wave of cultural fashions, piloted or wild." Again: "For us, talking to young people is getting harder and harder. We perceive it as a duty, and together as a risk: the risk of appearing anachronistic, of not being heard. We must be listened to: above our individual experiences, we have collectively witnessed a fundamental and unexpected event, fundamental precisely because unexpected, not predicted by anyone. Continue Levi: It happened against all predictions; it happened in Europe; incredibly, it happened that an entire civil people, just out of the fervid cultural flourishing of Weimar, followed an Istrian whose figure today moves to rice; yet Adolf Hitler was obeyed and osanned until the catastrophe. It has happened, so it can happen again: this is the core of what we have to say. This is the disturbing message that the witnesses of the Shoah give us: it happened, so it can happen again. "It waits only for the new istrion" - continues Levi - "there are no candidates") that organizes it - refers to violence - "legalizes it, declares it necessary and due and infected the world." I was lucky enough to be able to teach history where Nazi madness was born, in Germany, in German public schools, and I will never forget the dismayed look on the faces of girls and boys as we deepened the mad ideology that guided the choices of an entire country and that, in reality, risked infecting the whole of Europe and the Western world. Let us not forget that the Nazi ideology of the superiority of one race over another and the survival of the best does not come from nothing, is borrowed from a distorted interpretation of Darwinian theories and was strong of pseudoscientific thesis very popular at the time, so much so that they entered the school books of German and Italian children. On the basis of these pseudoscientific theories it was affirmed (assumed by the hand) that there were genetically inferior races and genetically superior races, constitutionally inferior individuals and other superiors and that therefore those who were superior had the right, indeed the duty, to eliminate or subjugate others, the so-called untermenschen, that is, the Jews in the first place, but also all those who this mad scheme indicated as an obstacle to the development of society: and then away the homosexuals, away the nomads, away the psychiatric patients, away also the chronic patients. The Aktion T4 programme provided for the suppression of people suffering from incurable genetic diseases and real or presumed mental disabilities. These lives were openly defined as unworthy to be lived. This is why Auschwitz and all the fields of horrors of Nazi-fascist persecution are not physical places and the Shoah is not a chapter on a history book. The Shoah is a mental category: that of the accepted oppression, sustained or elevated to a system, of the indifference in the face of the denial of the rights of minorities of any kind, of the insensitivity in the face of the pain of another who is not of ours. When hatred becomes normal, insult and discrimination deprecated as a joke, the Roman greeting a stunt for which to elbow, or even when the idea that there is a superiority or greater dignity of some human groups over others is justified as a legitimate personal opinion, here is the risk of starting again the Shoah. The commemoration of the Shoah and the massacres carried out in the rage of an alleged identity superiority cannot and must not have the unspeakable appearance of a necessary as tired ritual that recalls a distant event, crystallized in a remote and unrepeatable era that does not concern us. We know where Auschwitz is and what happened inside those fences of barbed wire: it can never happen again. Levi, however, completely overturned this reassuring theorem and said the opposite: it has already happened, so it can happen again. History is full of lessons not learned or forgotten. So let us welcome initiatives of this kind, motions that commit the Government to promoting the journeys of memory, to support the institutions and places of memory, to take any other useful action to ensure that our girls and our boys know more and more about the tragedy of the Shoah and know what man, with cold and calculated planning, has been able to do to man. We also hope that today, through the effective and real cooperation of all the political groups, the good intentions expressed in this House will be reflected in the prompt start of the work of the Extraordinary Commission on the fight against intolerance, racism and anti-Semitism by the Senator Segre. Starting with the conclusion, I remember in fact that the example we give by our behavior, our actions and the language we choose to use, is the greatest and most lasting teaching that we can pass on to young people. We ensure that our good intentions always match our behaviour and the words we choose to use, as legislators and as representatives of the institutions. With this wish and with this exhortation I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S groups, Mr Mistoe (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u67	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Salvini and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion 208. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 211.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u70	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, before requesting the split vote on motion 211, I would like to address President Bernini, who is the proposer of the motion, and therefore the Forza Italia Group because we are sharing the general lines and commitments... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you that we are in the process of voting. Mr Perilli (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I would like to explain my request. If possible, I would like to see the proposal to remove from the premises as contained in the ninth paragraph, to the commitments. Let me explain to you why: here we mention a survey that does not come from an institutional source, on a sample, among other things, not representative of all middle and high schools, which count 15,000 pupils. Moreover, in another paragraph, there are confusing data and I think that there are also some contradictions, where we refer to 47 percent of pupils, without better specifying. Now I do not go in, Mr President, specifically, but I think that it is still acceptable for the proposers not to request a vote of accession and the crystallization of the survey of the portal "Skuola.net" (which still does a due job) and let the motion be set on more general lines, like the others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's the proposal? Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, the proposal is to delete this part and vote on the motion in its entirety, in the amended text, or to vote for separate parts first on the premises and then on the commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u73	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I speak very quickly, because - as you have rightly pointed out - we are in the process of voting. We have declared the origin - as Vice-President Mallegni reminded me now - of our willingness to make a joint motion. But everyone has his premises, which he rightly keeps, also because these premises are not the basis of what we are asking for with this motion, but they are one of the elements that make up the motion, of which we do not intend to deprive ourselves. So it is okay if we want to vote for separate parts, but we keep the text of our motion together. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u74	I put the motion for a separate vote to the vote on motion No 211. It's approved. I'd say there's no need to rehearse. It seems to me that the proposal is adopted unanimously. I would remind the proposers of motion 211 that the Government had put forward a proposal for the rewording of the second commitment, in the sense of adding the phrase "in compliance with budgetary constraints." BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). I welcome the proposal for a reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 211 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the commitments of motion No 211 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On motion 212 the government representative also proposed a rewording, which was accepted by the proposers. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 212 (text 2), tabled by Senators Marcucci, Pharaoh, Perilli, De Petris, Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u75	The next item is the debate on the report by Mr XXII, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. The rapporteur, Senator Maiorino, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence, on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to be extended, has examined the report on the work carried out so far. I would like to give you a brief account of its content, but above all of the reasons why an extension is necessary. On the organisational level, the Committee of Inquiry has set up three sub-groups of work, coordinated by the President and the two Vice-Presidents-in-Office, dedicated respectively to the issues of prevention, protection and punishment, as provided for in the Istanbul Convention, which indicates in these three "Ps" the strategic ways to attack the phenomenon of violence against women. In this first year of work, the Commission has carried out a long and thorough cognitive activity, which has been mentioned in the hearing of over sixty subjects in almost forty plenary sessions and in a first series of surveys on the territory (in Basilicata, Trentino, Sicily and Campania). In order to be able to photograph with punctuality and precision the passages most at risk in the trials for violence, passages that sometimes become real vulnus, also with regard to the cases of separation, in the presence of problems related to the custody of minors, the Commission has prepared seven separate questionnaires addressed to the presidents of the ordinary courts and the supervisory courts; to the prosecutors of the Republic; to the High School and the Higher Council of the judiciary; to the regional orders of psychologists and to the National Council of Forensics. These questionnaires were submitted on 20 December 2019 and some responses have already been received, while we are still awaiting the response of many other bodies. Beyond the questionnaire, I believe that an extension of the Commission throughout the term of office is necessary. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u77	It is a destiny: when the colleague speaks there is a bit of movement in the right side of the hemicycle. I would ask you to allow them to carry out their speech with serenity, which I hope will be brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u78	MAIORINO, rapporteur. Thank you, President. It is necessary both for objective reasons, linked to the fact that the phenomenon of violence against women and feminicides seems far from decreasing ( 2020 has opened with a real massacre of women), and for reasons related to the same investigation activity and the need to deepen some aspects not yet adequately dealt with during this first year. More in detail, a first aspect of the analysis covered the criteria and methods of selecting technical consultants in the context of gender-based violence proceedings, on which more thorough investigation is needed. A further profile that the Commission has deepened and must have the opportunity to deepen further, including through the acquisition of documents relating to certain procedural events that have come to the fore, concerns the issue of the procedural discipline of judgments for offences of gender violence (especially of feminicides), with particular attention to the limits to the judge's discretion in the application of mitigating circumstances in cases where the fact is committed to the detriment of vulnerable women or in cases where aggravated circumstances occur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, I still have to try to eliminate the background noise: since for about half an hour we will not be voting, if someone is not interested in listening to the report, he can sit down at the buvette or where he thinks most appropriate. I am addressing the Group in particular in front of me, on the right. MAIORINO, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. As far as prevention is concerned, a first important aspect of which the Commission has dealt with was the promotion of a culture that respects gender at the level of communication and the need to overcome all stereotypes and forms of hate speech. However, there is still a great deal to be done about prevention. The Commission has already started to interrogate with the associations that listen to abusive men, but the aspect remains to be deepened to see how these paths can be included in the recovery programmes, avoiding the escalation of the final violence. One aspect on which the Commission has begun an in-depth study is training, to be understood from a double point of view: on the one hand, as a university training for those who, by profession, in their subsequent work experience might have to be confronted with victims of violence and, on the other hand, as school education in the strict sense and, therefore, those who, as educators, will have to promote and build cultural and educational models aimed at proper and sound management of relations and recognition and respect for differences. In this respect too, the Commission reserves the right to continue to deepen and provide regulatory guidelines to introduce these educational pathways into schools of all levels. There is a need for an extension, preferably for the course of the parliamentary term, as laid down also in the first Commission: having a multi-annual perspective will enable the Commission to achieve all those ambitious objectives that have been proposed and to properly devise all aspects of the phenomenon of violence against women and feminicides, including, if necessary, through a comparative law study of the other European systems. [[Applause from the M5S and IV-P.S.I. Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u79	The government representative does not intend to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u82	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the fact that only last week six women were killed shows that the Commission dealing with this phenomenon is more necessary than ever. And this with good peace of those who deny the phenomenon, like the daily "Free" who compares the men killed with the women killed, but forgets to say that the first were not taken out of their girlfriends, compañeras, wives, friends: they died during shootings, accounting regulations, hunting accidents. They are not menacing, they are murders. Femicides, on the other hand, take place from the partner's hand and the victims are women. These are in danger especially in the context of a separation, when they want to start a new autonomous life. Unfortunately, the maleistic conception, according to which the woman is considered a possession, is still in the head of too many men, for whom a separation represents a lesion of that male honor that until 1981 was covered in an infamous norm of the penal code, that which provided for a reduction of the penalty in cases of feminicide subsequent to a betrayal by the woman. The question to be asked is: what should be done to combat this phenomenon? The code red was a step forward, because these crimes must have the utmost attention, with the obligation for the prosecutor to personally listen to the victim within three days. Crimes of beatings, personal injury and mistreatment in the family must be taken more seriously by the Forces of Order, because they are often the first signs of violence in a spiral that can lead to feminicide. It is no longer tolerable for so many women who decide to denounce violence to be told that they have to resolve the quarrel in the family. The code of conduct has strengthened the preventive protection introduced by the law of 2001 because the prosecutor who speaks immediately to the victim can better understand the situation and decide to ask for a protection measure and it is already noted that the protection measures increase, but unfortunately it is not enough. We know that too many victims have been killed by men who were subjected to an approach ban measure. This is a real failure of the state, which has not been able to guarantee adequate protection. Therefore, the protective measures of non-approach to the former spouse and children must be better monitored and in this sense the electronic bracelet proposed with the first security decree is an efficient measure, of course always provided that the State obtains them, since today they are missing where there is need. The social condemnation of those who commit violence must be absolute and general, without mitigating of any kind. This also applies to the verbal violence of those who advise women to always stay behind some steps compared to the man or those who put in his bar a toilet in the shape of a female mouth. Perhaps we should introduce a new crime, the insult to the dignity of women. We must also raise women's awareness of their autonomy and freedom from all forms of psychological, material or social abuse. Only in this way will they find more and more the strength to denounce and distance themselves, because they will feel around themselves a network of social protection and solidarity. Above all, we must all work towards a society where men and women are on the same level because feminicide is the extreme degeneration point of that hateful culture that denies equal opportunities and dignity to men and women. Unfortunately, in the places of power women are still under-represented; advertising portrays them mainly as a sexual object and for the important positions in the Italian language there is still recourse to male. Therefore, there is still a lot of work for a Commission on feminicide, and that is why it should be extended. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Maiorino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u85	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in thanking the President of the Commission, Senator Valente, Commissioners and officials for the work we have done so far, we feel that we can confirm the extension of the Commission's work with all possible determination. The numbers that I have just heard and that quoted Senator Unterberger are not simply a cold accounting that we have the duty to report - alas - almost daily, but give the sense of the real dimension and, I would like to say, endemic to the phenomenon that we need to deal with with more force, if possible. Of course, I do not repeat what the rapporteur, Senator Maiorino, has said in detail. The Commission has moved along the tracks already described and built by the Istanbul Convention, with the famous three "Ps" of prevention, protection and punishment. It must be said, even with clarity: we are not in the year zero, many things have been done, also and above all at the legislative and regulatory level; I am thinking, for example, of the whole area of repression and punishment, from the ratification of the Istanbul Convention to the Red Code, to talk about two moments that have characterized a reflection that has informed Parliament as a whole, with legislative repercussions in terms of legislative initiative. All this has had its importance and its determination: much has been done on the ground of repression and also in articulating a mechanism that has built the conditions for that repression against acts of gender violence in contrast to feminicide to have its effectiveness. I am thinking, for example, of the specialization of the courts, a path which has been initiated for several years; I am thinking of the good practices put in place by the courts and the health system (some of which we have touched with hand and met in the missions to which it was referred); I am thinking of the whole question of protection: there is a condition from which we cannot ignore, if we want to combat this phenomenon effectively, that is to say, we must put the victims in the conditions of taking the big step of the denunciation, which transforms the lives of women victims of violence as much as the violence already suffered, bringing them into a new world with totally uncertain results and the results are all the more uncertain the more precarious the condition of the victim in the material plane and its autonomy. There is little to do: if we do not put in place that protection system, from taking charge of the victim to everything that comes after, with all the uncertainty that follows the decision to finally and definitively denounce the assailant, even repression loses its effectiveness considerably. Let me say here - and I say this to my fellow Members - that the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide is not an element alien to the dynamics of Parliament all: indeed, the whole of Parliament should feel the responsibility to observe very carefully what the Commission is doing and therefore to avoid what has been done over the years, not out of ignorance or specific responsibilities, but because there is a cumbersome mechanism to overcome. With regard to protection and responsibility, let us make sure - and I believe that there are conditions for this to happen - that, in the light of the funding - which, fortunately, exists - for anti-violence centres, the delay with which they are paid does not make this investment ineffective, because there is no element of programmability and planning of activities and work for such important bodies. The anti-violence centers are in fact a crucial terminal to collect this instance and this discomfort, which I would like to call social, and to take responsibility for the victims of violence. Finally, we come to prevention, which I believe is the central theme of our discussions and therefore also of our possible further legislative initiatives. There is little to do, the previous colleagues reminded me: we must put ourselves in the head - and I say this first of all to fellow men - that this world is still too masculine in its declinations, which means in the work, in the folds of society, in the debate and in the public discourse. If we do not reverse this course and put ourselves in the head that this declination must be completely reversed, our words will remain in the wind. My impression - I say this with some concern - is that those who are defined as the greatest democracies in the world, that is, those countries that should be a bit of a pioneer on the ground of respect for the rights of people, in the historical phase we are going through seems, alas, to be making significant backward steps. I think, for example, about the responsibility of politics, how much public discourse, starting with that of the leaders of the larger countries, is informed of this machist element and how much there is of this declination to masculine in language, behavior and, therefore, also in the possibility of drawing a society that obviously cannot be the one in which we live and that must be changed. This has a huge impact. It is not enough - I say this - to advertise more progress or to raise awareness, which we also have a duty to do. There is a need to rebuild from the roots and the roots, of course, first and foremost stick to the sphere of the formation and education of people. Perhaps the most beautiful moments we had the pleasure of living with fellow Commissioners were those in which we had the opportunity to contact students in schools. The school, the public school above all, is a great antidote to this idea of the world that we do not like. Let me imagine something that I would like to see happening by the end of this parliamentary term, even in a spirit of transversal to the political forces. There is a lot of talk about environmental sustainability (which is one of the central themes, or the non-survival of the human species) and, therefore, about the impact of policies in terms of sustainability. Well, I would very much like us to imagine the construction of a gender impact index (not because we are accountants, but I am talking about a very real thing) for all the measures we take. [[Applause from Senators Conzatti and Maiorino]] In fact, every law that we write and adopt (we are legislators and this we do as a trade at this moment) has a direct or indirect impact on the relationship of balance between the world of women and that of men, if I am allowed to use this expression. Measuring this impact can therefore have a value not only symbolic, but material to redesign a society that we do not like because even so, even from this, the rate of civilization of a country is measured. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu Groups, PD, IV-P.S.I. and Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Maiorino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u88	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I too would like to join in thanking the President of the Commission on feminicide, Senator Valeria Valente. The Commission started its work just a year ago, inheriting an important work carried out by the first Commission of Inquiry, set up in the 17th legislature, during which we ratified the important Istanbul Convention, with which violence against women was finally described as a violation of human rights. We then introduced new rules, punitive, repressive and to protect the orphans of feminicide and, then, last summer, with the code red we introduced provisions for the acceleration of the time of intervention of the judiciary from the news of crime, as well as new cases such as the revenge porn, forced marriage and permanent injuries to the face. The Commission of the XVII legislature had already given us some evidence. Violence is expressed in different ways and forms, but affecting the identity and existence of women between psychological violence, forms of persecution, control, intimidation and even economic blackmail. It is possible to see aspects common to such violence: the transversality of the social class and the silence that often surrounds them. In confirming that in more than 75 of the cases women die in the family at the hands of spouses, cohabitants, boyfriends or ex-legislators, all of us legislators, alongside a public opinion increasingly attentive to the phenomenon, have felt called into question to investigate further with the work of the Commission in the face of incontrovertible data. While in recent years the number of crimes against the person is decreasing, as well as the number of murders, it does not decrease, indeed increases, the number of feminicides, that is, the killings of women at the hands of men: six women were killed only last week. Hence the difficulty of putting feminicide in a context or in security policies, rather pushing us to reflect on the prevention front, the construction of cultural models based on gender equality and the overcoming of social stereotypes. Prevention is based on the timely recognition of risk situations and the subsequent and timely intervention to secure women and children from violence and ill-treatment, which, unfortunately, are often exacerbated precisely at the time of the complaint and in the phase of separation and expulsion. The Commission's task is therefore, first of all, to investigate the effectiveness of the rules that we have introduced, and then to propose amendments, and to verify the effectiveness or delays in the administrative chain, which we have found, in support of the structures, from the centres of violence to the houses of shelter, in the times of financing, from the national plan to the regional one, to the repartition in the territorial areas and in the operational centers. One of the questions to be examined was precisely the question of the date of departure: to verify the existence, and then to ask the institution, of a method of recording such killings and violence, which can in the immediacy be recorded as gender crimes. For this reason, with the help of the consultants, we have prepared a detailed questionnaire, which we have submitted to the prosecutors. The Commission has worked hard with the hearing of more than 60 experts, but also with surveys in different regions, from Basilicata to Trentino, from Sicily to Campania. We have audited academic representatives and magistrates, including to assess the existence of procedural practices aimed at protecting victims, in order to avoid what is called secondary victimisation. We have assessed all the proposals for the integration of criminal rules to complement the current system, which will probably become concrete proposals, from the delayed arrest of the person responsible for violence to the introduction of a case that protects children, forced to witness such ill-treatment, as direct victims of such conduct, today considered only aggravating of crime. Children must be protected at the very moment of separation and divorce, in relation to the problems of the relationship still existing between the judicial, civil and criminal contexts, in the connection between the trials for crimes of violence and the civil judgments for the custody of children, in the evaluation of parental responsibility. The area on which much remains to be investigated is the prevention and detection of risk and the consequent prompt safety of women. Cultural factors, omerty, but also the training of operators are still important barriers. We need the training of magistrates, perhaps with specialised sections, which in some cases exist, especially in the large courts, but also the training of listener operators. The proposal for a comparison with EU legislation and practice may be very interesting. The European Commission has an important database, thanks to the existing multiannual programmes, namely Daphne and Rights, equality and citizenship (REC). Unfortunately we are not alone in this sad ranking and, indeed, many countries record even more tragic data. Of course, educational stereotypes, together with a derogatory and offensive language of the dignity of women, represent at least symptoms, so work that still requires commitment is necessary. I am referring to the language of the street, but also to the journalistic language, which unfortunately even contaminates the motivations of the sentences, with respect to the mitigating circumstances, in reference to emotional and psychological states of the realm. Violence against women is therefore a matter that requires serious cultural intervention to make equality of rights between men and women concrete, ensuring that obstacles still remain in place in making the constitutional principles implemented, from equality in the workplace to equality in family care commitments, to equality in private political and corporate representation; equality in differences in cultural and educational models aimed at proper and sound management of relationships, recognition and mutual respect. For this reason, the Italia Viva-P.S.I. Group. supports the proposal to extend the Commission's activities in order to deliver reflections on which to build proposals in the hands of Minister Bonetti and Secretary Francesca Puglisi, who has the specific delegation to equal opportunities. Among other things, the work that is being done by Minister Bonetti, which is important, starting with the release of funds for orphans and the start of the allocation of resources for 2020, and above all for having already launched the first national strategic plan for gender equality. It is a phenomenon, in conclusion, that clearly cannot be a subject of division but, on the contrary, it must be of shared intervention; a tragic phenomenon but also very complex, in the awareness - as my previous colleague said - that gender policies must be analysed and evaluated more and more cross-cuttingly. Each policy must have a gender impact assessment, in all the competences of the various ministries, but certainly based on the competences of the Ministry of Education for School Education. [[Applause from Groups IV-P.S.I., PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u91	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 7 February 2019, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender-based violence, has carried out its work through investigations, investigations and hearings. I do not want to stress the quantitative dimension of the phenomenon of feminicide. What I would like to highlight during the work, and here again, is the almost ontological, qualitative aspect behind this widespread and submerged phenomenon. Femicide is the ultimate, final and extreme act of a repeated series of acts of violence, because it is rarely preceded by an uninterrupted chain of violent acts. I don't just want to talk about data because the phenomenon is submerged and we know only the tip of the classic iceberg, but especially because behind every woman who is killed there is her family, there are her relatives, there are her children. This is precisely what I would like to draw attention to, namely the so-called orphans of feminicide and domestic crimes to which a specific law has allocated a fund. I want to claim - I do this with pride - that, thanks to an amendment by Brothers of Italy that has been accepted by the majority and oppositions, therefore by all, this fund has been increased by one million euros. It is a fund to be allocated to orphans of feminicide and foster families, often left alone in supporting those children in their studies and in returning - if possible - to normality. I also say that we have been forced to denounce the absence of the implementing decrees of the law on orphans of feminicide. We have done so for months, until last November the majority made a commitment to finally arrive at these decrees; before that, unfortunately, this law has remained unenforced and its funds have not been distributed. It was therefore right for our Commission to insist, through its sub-groups, on the so-called three Ps (prevention, protection and punishment) which indicated to us the Istanbul Convention, and which Italy among the first countries wanted to ratify. And it is a platform against domestic violence, against gender violence and against feminicide. And while we were working, through our internal organization, I would like to remind you that there was also the approval of the code red, with the introduction of new cases of crime such as revenge porn, such as the crime of constraint to marriage (the so-called forced and early marriages), as well as injuries, deformations to the body and face. While we were working there was also a more general change, even with the criticalities of applying the code red. We asked ourselves the question - I mean sincerely - if this Commission were to be extended for the entire legislature, as we are about to do, or if - we did so through certain amendments which we proposed as opposition to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but which were rejected - we gave a year of extension. It is useless to be here discussing: we are extending it until the end of the legislature, but in compliance with the perimeter established by the founding resolution we can and must also give ourselves other objectives, broaden our eyes and focus our attention on topics that we could not - because of nobody - address in the first year of activity. It is true that we are dealing with a structural issue, that of gender violence, which the World Health Organization calls a global social scourge. And it is because violence remains the first cause of death for women. But above all we are comparing ourselves with a phenomenon that is at all latitudes, in all social geographies: it is a world that crosses the world, crosses ethnicities, religious faiths, social classes, ages and, therefore, it is something very deep. I would say that it is an ancient disease, a secular evil and it is useless to confront neologisms and terms, because the substance does not change. If we use the term feminicide, we do it because criminology first took care of it through the work of Diana Russell, who so defined the voluntary murder of a woman as a woman. Let us use this term because politics has dealt with it: I am thinking of the Mexican Parliament, of the work of the anthropologist Lagarde who, with a committee of inquiry, has introduced into the penal code of that country a new crime, precisely that of feminicide. There is not in Europe and there is not in Italy, but we still have many rules to objectiveize this phenomenon and punish it. Those rules must be applied. The penalty rebates that we still see are unacceptable to those who are guilty of such crimes. It is therefore clear that we must strengthen the concept, the policy, the perception of the issue. Precisely because we have to work longer, for an entire legislature, the Brothers of Italy Group goes back to asking - as I did a year ago, when we discussed the birth of the Commission - that, among the various issues for the attention of our Commission, we should also include that of the womb for rent, which must become a universal crime, of which we no longer hear about and which is a form of exploitation of the female body and the poverty of women and there is no more vile practice than this. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] We also provide this Commission with a monitoring, statistical and data collection function. There is still one theme, which I really want to propose with passion and enthusiasm, on which we all have to do more and it is that of teenage couples. Violence within teenage couples, which is on the increase, is not investigated and we do not care enough, forgetting that the road to feminicide and serious episodes of violence begins in the very first couple relationships, those between teenagers, marked by aggressive dynamics, devalued, prevaricatory, where girls suffer without telling anyone, neither the family nor the school or the competent authorities. I must not mention the cases of Desirèe Mariottini, raped and killed; of Pamela Mastronardi and of the little Noemi: children victims of violence and feminicide. Let us not forget, then, that teenage couples are the most immersed in the digital world, with all that it entails. I also want to say that we must commit ourselves to an increase in anti-violence centres, whose number is below demand. We must also work for centres for the recovery of the violent and abusive. I want to say with my heart, wishing us all and all of us good work, that, as long as there is a successful singer who becomes famous as rappers in chanting violence against women and feminicide, it means that for all of us there will still be a long way to go. [[Applause from the FdI, PD and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u94	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, since 1993 in India, the obligation of gender quotas in the elections to village councils has been established through a law. What led to this choice? First of all, it resulted in a numerical increase. Women head of village have increased from 5 to 40 percent. A French economist, recently Nobel laureate, Esther Duflo, conducted a study, in particular on the villages of Western Bengal, those in which a third was necessarily ruled by women. What happened? The girls and their parents changed their expectations. If the girls first imagined that they would finish school at the age of fifteen and then dedicate themselves to something else, seeing women head villagers began to think that they too could study as males and their parents also began to do so. This fact has happened and, therefore, in many villages the ability to read and write was no longer only male, but it has also become girls. And, therefore, not only have desires been diversified, but their effects have been seen. Even in the most practical issues - also in the study of the French economist - it is noted that the difference in devoting time to domestic work, between children and girls, was about seventy-nine minutes. Well, in the villages where there had been women village leader, this difference continued to exist, but it was eighteen minutes less. It had decreased and, therefore, the girls had even more time to study. A positive model effect has been triggered. The fact of seeing women who were not only driving their home, but were also able to drive a village, has triggered a capacity and a desire to achieve it in those girls. You might ask: what does this have to do with the extension, which we are debating, of the Commission on Femicide? I think it has a lot to do with this, because this is a Commission which - as has already been said - has also worked with three groups on the so-called three Ps (prevention of punishment and protection), and has devoted itself to everything. Certainly, however, on the subject of prevention and protection, the centrality of a cultural change compared to the lives of men and women in our country is central. As I said, the heart of the Commission's work - for which, among other things, I thank President Valeria Valente, who explained to us in a report the many things that have been done - is therefore not only to act on the repressive logic; there is also punishment, but not only. The repressive logic lies in particular with the law enforcement and the judiciary. Then it is Parliament's job to put in place legislation to give the competent parties all the means they need. I must say that in the last ten years, after so many hesitations, Parliament has finally set in motion a series of decisions on important issues: the law against persecuting acts, the so-called stalking law of 2009; the ratification of the Istanbul Convention in 2013; the so-called decree against feminicide, included in a series of other security measures; in 2018 the norm for orphans of feminicide, which has just reminded my colleague Rauti; in 2019 the code red. On this very subject, I would like to recall in this House the words of a man who plays an important role in Italy in the field of security policies, the head of the Gabrielli Police, who spoke precisely about a feminicide; words that I think it is important to remember here for the role he plays, but also because spoken by a man. Gabrielli reminds us that the phenomenon is much more worrying than the statistics say: the problem is cultural because, as long as women are considered as a property, such phenomena will continue to exist. It also recalls - for example - the important work of the anti-violence centres, on which this Commission has worked a great deal. Gabrielli himself, who plays a role through the police, says that it is essential to accompany the complaint with a protection. And such protection can be given by the work of such centers, precisely because the greatest difficulties for a woman who denounces often meet just after the reporting phase. And many colleagues have spoken of these very difficulties. A woman killed is a defeat for everyone: this is what the Chief of Police said, but also all the colleagues who have spoken here. The issue is that, when women denounce, we have to believe women, we have to give them support and trust, because that - as we have been reminded - is the most difficult moment. I consider the work done by the Commission, which has seen three sub-groups work on the so-called three Ps (prevention, protection, punishment), but also through questionnaires - the results of which still have to reach the courts, prosecutors and the orders of psychologists, but it is a very interesting job since women tell of the difficulties they encounter at the time of the complaint - to understand what are the points on which changes can be made. It is therefore necessary to read the delicate stages of the judicial process. A window, which I believe to be very important, has also been opened on the training of all operators. Working with universities, with those involved in education, with the Forces of Order and with those dealing with the theme, education in the approach towards women also becomes fundamental. We therefore need an extension, because all this work is immense. This issue is the Femicide Commission. But if the question is not only punishment - it remains fundamental - but also prevention and protection, the challenge is immense. And, unfortunately, the fact that they increase the episodes of feminicide is showing us how we're not winning it. We must therefore deepen the response element to understand what can be the policies to be put in place so that this terrible massacre that takes place in our country will end. We often say that men and women must have the same rights, the same possibilities, but also the same duties. You know, however, that in the practice of life lived this does not happen. If we go to see the time devoted to the work of care by men and women in Italy, you will see how the difference, even between women and men who work both, weighs a lot on women. I would just like to mention one fact in relation to that investigation which I mentioned earlier about Western Bengal, in the matter of cultural change, as regards - for example - games and school texts as well. I read the news in a newspaper, but I can talk about it on the basis of a fact that happened to me personally: the subsidiary of my youngest daughter contained an exercise in which children had to point out with a dart the crafts of their mothers and those of their dads. In our house, being very busy and often far from Genoa, a specific task of my husband is to cook; therefore my daughter, little one, indicated that it was Dad who cooked, because he had always seen him do it. At school, this was marked as a mistake; she did not understand and, at home, almost crying wondered why it was a mistake, since she had always seen her father cook. I tell this episode because it is of life lived and I was very impressed. However, I do not want to include elements that make people smile too much on a very complicated subject. We need to think about the message in the family, the attention to language, images and advertising. I have heard very important words from colleagues who have spoken about this, and I would like to end by wishing them good work and thinking that it should be a leaven for the Senate Assembly and for the whole of Parliament. In the same days when we read the tragedy of six murdered women, the pages of the newspapers also reported the cases of women who had achieved important successes: I think of the so-called pink avalanche with Sofia Goggia, Federica Brignone, Marta Bassino and all the others; I think of the three researchers of the Hospital Spallanzani who have done a very important job discovering the virus that is worrying everyone. I really hope that these positive messages can increasingly help change the way men and women look at themselves in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bressa, Maiorino and Marino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u97	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is February 5th and almost a year has passed since the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence and nothing seems to have changed. The statistics in fact report one feminicide every three days, but in the last week the crimes were as many as six: six feminicides in five days, a woman killed every twenty hours. It is a bitter budget that must make us stop, reflect and restart. So much has been done and is being done to stem this phenomenon, but the numbers continue to go back It's overwhelming us. 85 percent of the feminicides occur in the family; 63 percent of the cases are committed by relapses, but the most disconcerting fact is that, in 28 percent of the known cases, the victims had suffered known ill-treatment to third parties, third people who knew and kept silent. We must therefore become aware once and for all. There must be a cultural revolution. We must return to putting respect at the center of everything; respect as the first value; respect for humankind, be it men, women, white, black, yellow, high, low, fat, skinny, heterosexual, homosexual. For the role we play we have a great responsibility: we act as a sounding board. This responsibility probably escaped the organizers of the 70th Festival of the Italian song and the selection of the singers in the race [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Martelli]] Last night there was a very touching intervention by the journalist Rula Jebreal, a goose bump, and tonight he will give space to a pseudo singer, such Junior Cally. Personally, I don't discuss his art, if you can call it that: I discuss the opportunity to show up on such a prestigious stage and follow a being who, in his performances, incites precisely to feminicide. It's a shame. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups and the Faithful Senators, Martelli and Unterberger]] Education to respect for the person must be introduced from primary schools. It is a revolution that will certainly bear fruit, if in the next generations these values will be loaded into future adults. You have to ask yourself what direction to take. It is clear that the measures adopted by us legislators to date have proved insufficient: the tightening of the red code's penalties has not served as a deterrent and numbers say it. It is necessary to increase the fear of the certainty of punishment: certain penalties. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] This is what you need. A person convicted of feminicide will hardly serve his twenty-five years in prison. For the feminicides the mitigatings are really many, they are wasted: "she" (the victim) provoked "he"; "he" was a depressed "he"; "it was an impulse of jealousy" or "a raptus of anger"; "he" but she had another "she." In case of uxoricide, then, the danger of recurrence of the crime is missing; thanks to the tube: he is now a widower. Enough with the gender attenuators. The answer must be firm, hard and sure. It is a transversal crime in relation to the social context and for this very reason it is more fundamental than ever to root the culture of respect. The data shows that there is no North and there is no South. Women are killed as women from Trentino Alto Adige to Sicily, passing through all the Italian regions, not forgetting even one: smiles turned off by those who once said they love them. In this regard, it is necessary to have the courage to deplore the condition of inferiority in which certain religions relegate the female figure, without hiding behind the affirmation "is their culture." [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In this regard, I am particularly proud of what the yellow-green government has done by approving the code red, which established the crime of constraint and induction to marriage, even if committed abroad by Italian citizens or foreigners resident in Italy, and the revenge porn, which is the crime of deformation of appearance with permanent facial injuries. Precisely in accordance with what has just been said, the Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione League cannot but be in favour of extending the Commission, but with the hope, after just one year of hearings - I take this opportunity to thank all the associations, the police forces, the judges, the unions and all the people who have succeeded in our hearings, providing study and reflection material to us Commissioners - that the blessed table of advice and analysis on the judgments starts as soon as possible. This table must help Parliament to understand where the vulnus are in the law to remedy them. I must also say that we were disappointed, even if not quite surprised, that none of our amendments proposed in the first Commission were accepted. They were amendments, from our point of view, of common sense: annual work report; annual accounting report; renewal of the Bureau, with the election of a minority president, as parliamentary practice generally provides for the committees of inquiry, so much so that President Valente had been elected by the then yellow-green majority. On this last point it was candidly declared by Senator Maiorino that the majority changed their minds. We take note of this; only stupid people do not change their minds. But I have a doubt: isn't it that, given the difficult situation of division of vacancies and the high contentiousness of the members of the majority, the confirmation of Senator Valente to the Presidency solves the problem at least in part? Will it not be that you agree so much that you do not feel the need to address the minority, seen and considered that the opposition already has it within you? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Two o'clock, or they're probably both true. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u100	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Forza Italia voted firmly in favour of setting up the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide last year last year, it is because, without a shadow of a doubt, we believed - and we believe - that it was essential to continue to deepen what was done in the last parliamentary term, during the previous six months, by producing a final document with great proposals. I myself presented, on 24 March 2018, the request document for the Committees of Inquiry into Femicide and the events that occurred at the Forteto. Femicides and family abuse continue to be on the agenda and we know that, apart from rare cases, prompt intervention by the Order Forces, but above all judicial protection, can make a difference in the lives of the victims. The alarm launched a few days ago by the Attorney General of the Court of Cassation Giovanni Salvi, in the report, on the occasion of the start of the judicial year, talking about feminicides as a national emergency, must lead us to think that what has been done so far is obviously not enough. Certainly much has been done about violence against women; the various measures have already been listed, starting from the red code, to which Forza Italia has not failed its contribution, also through the introduction of the crime of revenge porn. Unfortunately, no amendments have been accepted, leading to some shortcomings in the code itself, which the Commission will now highlight. EUR 12 million has been allocated, a figure still considered small by the associations. On this front, an amendment to the budgetary maneuver established a sacrosanct thing, after the events of the news, which asked for compensation for orphans of feminicide: no claim for compensation for claims claimed by the State will be more charged to the orphans of feminicide, neither minors, nor minors not economically sufficient, provided that they are extraneous to crimes in the family. Of course it is necessary to continue firmly, in order to recover the delays that we have accumulated compared to other European countries; delays that have made us slip, according to the report Grevio, to the seventieth place in the rankings drawn up by the World Economic Forum. The Commission has done quite well this year, but more needs to be done. What am I talking about? I am referring to the fact that - according to Grevio's latest report on the Istanbul Convention - while acknowledging the progress made to promote women's rights in Italy, the phenomenon still encounters resistance in the country and is emerging a tendency to reinterpret and reorient the notion of gender equality in terms of policies for the family and motherhood. What can the Commission do? It can and must deepen and propose complementary measures to fill gaps in specialised support services for victims of sexual violence and to promote, with the Government and the Regions, the establishment of reception centres for victims of rape or violence, who must receive the right funding. In this regard, I would ask the Commission to draw up a protocol for basic points for the request for accreditation of anti-violence centres, unique throughout Italy, for monitoring the centres themselves. It is necessary to have the confidence of how the structures are credited, in order to be able to give later the right economic contribution that they need. With regard to the Red Code, the Commission, including through the hearings that have taken place, must point out all the legislative gaps, such as the lack of effective civil redress against state authorities which have failed to take the necessary preventive or protective measures within their competence. It is on the issue of prevention that I would like to dwell for a moment. I still remember when, in 2009, the Ministry of Education, University and Research and the Department of Equal Opportunities (the ministers of then Gelmini and Carfagna) drew up the protocol for the anti-violence week in schools. From 2011 onwards this week she has practically no longer remembered. Since the prevention and respect of human beings start at school, this initiative to raise awareness of children could perhaps be taken into consideration. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] In November 2016, the Department of Equal Opportunities, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, University and Research, published a call for the presentation of educational initiatives on prevention and the fight against sexual violence. This call encouraged the creation of cooperation between schools and non-governmental organisations working in this field. We have now known - because for several years the ban had disappeared - that the amount allocated was EUR 5 million and that the selected projects have recently started their activity, precisely in 2017. After that total dark date. I was heartened by the words spoken yesterday to an agency about the attacks that Mr Bonetti has suffered from other parties in his majority and the fact that he intends to propose a new ban very soon. If it weren't for the individual schools or regions that every year on the occasion of the World Day against Violence against Women arrange to organize demonstrations useful also to have the head of the government make strollers in sight of an anti-violence center, there seems to be no trace of a serious interest from this majority to raise awareness, through the allocation of specific funds, schools, children and also the training of the operators. The Commission must send out a signal in this regard by promoting initiatives of this kind that are exempt from individual checks. I believe that the role of the Commission of Inquiry should be to verify and wander those who do not do their duty. Let us now move on to the proposals, otherwise there would be no point in moving forward. What should be verified in detail? The application of legal provisions on the crime of ill-treatment in the family must be ensured, bearing in mind the specific gender nature of domestic violence against women. Policies and measures should also address prevention, protection, investigation and sanctions in accordance with the obligation of due diligence set out in Article 5 of the Convention. Additional measures should be taken to ensure that policies to combat violence against women are comprehensive and integrated and implemented and monitored through effective coordination between national, regional and local authorities. Appropriate financial and human resources should also be provided for measures and policies; support for independent women's organisations working for women and recognition should be strengthened. Finally, prevention in the field of awareness-raising, education and training of professionals and programmes aimed at perpetrators of violence in the field of employment must be strengthened, continuing the implementation of proactive and durable measures aimed at promoting real changes in sexist behaviour in the social and cultural context, based on the idea of the inferiority of women. For abusive men, I know that there are funds, perhaps never enough. Unfortunately, the blanket is short; there are families that do not yet receive the right compensation, due to delays, so that grandparents can keep their grandchildren orphaned for feminicide and perhaps, at the same time, they also have an oncology disease and do not have the money for cancer drugs. We know that this is also a problem. We'll see. Much remains to be done, it does not take much time; what is needed is the will, the conviction to do something good for women and for our country. Financial resources must be well spent. I would suggest less inspection and less audition, because we have important documentation to examine. I very much thank all the staff of the Commission; under-estimated staff who work very hard to examine all the acts with us. I believe that all of us Commissioners must not rely solely on the contribution that staff provide us with, but on us, in the first place, to do our part. We had tabled amendments to extend the Commission by one year, given that in the previous Commission in six months we had produced a report which was submitted to the United Nations, it was used in Italy for the preparation of the code of red and taken as an example for many ideas from Spain, which, however, invested EUR 1 billion in violence. I believe that the Commission should produce legislative proposals as soon as possible. I was very sorry when a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars said that they could not extend the Commission by just one year for the figure we would be doing with public opinion. I believe that the bad thing with public opinion is going to happen if we do not prove that the Commission only makes sense if it produces documents of direction. I hope, therefore, having the good fortune of having a good President like Senator Valente, who is part of the majority of the Government, that the requests shared by all of us in the Commission, as has always happened, can be quickly received by the Government, presented to the State-Regions Conference and implemented. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Valente.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u103	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank President Valente and the Commission officials, who started work a year ago, exactly on 7 February 2019. At an early stage, given the urgency of the problem entrusted to it, it sought to gather the information necessary for action as effective as possible, first of all by taking advantage of what was already done by the previous Commission, by collecting valuable data provided by various actors who have already been working to combat the phenomenon or to alleviate its effects in an appropriate way in the field of health, education and justice, often using expert advice. In order to have greater concentration of the phenomenon, several surveys have been carried out and observed in a direct and autopsy way the current state of things visiting anti-violence centers and organizing conferences. The Commission has found that we are not in the year zero, but at the same time it has noted the various criticalities that still prevent an action of government visibly incisive. For example, there have been inconsistencies in the legal instruments for the protection of victims already in force and shortcomings in the protection of minors involved, and there have also been regional discrepancies which have led some territorial realities to date to lag behind others. Some red tape has been found to slow down prompt intervention too often fatal for victims. The decision that authorizes this Commission to deploy its prerogative on the regulatory-financial and legislative-administrative aspects, therefore, requires us the urgency to draw up and approve unique and organic texts attentive to giving organicity to the disparate and uneven regulatory structures that weaken its real effectiveness, despite expressing the goodness of its intent. In order to give greater impetus to its task and to speed up its work, this Commission has organised its activities in three sub-groups coordinated by the President and the two Vice-Presidents, assigning a specific segment of the three already suggested by the Istanbul Convention, namely prevention, protection and punishment. In the interval between prevention and protection, the Commission has dealt with abusive men. These subgroups have operated independently, but frequent moments of formal sharing have been reserved, but also informal to check step by step the good performance of the works and not to disperse precious energies and to avoid unnecessary waste of time. Moreover, to understand such a complex and changing phenomenon a careful and scrupulous cognitive work was needed preferring to acquire information and suggestions from the live voice of actors in the field, operators and victims. That is why more than 60 hearings were held in 40 plenary sessions, but informal meetings and acquisitions of information were much more. As Vice-President of the Commission, I have had the honour of dealing with prevention, which is carried out with serious cultural intervention, and this is where prevention is needed and urgent to take action because prevention takes place through the two strands of communication and training. The Commission has taken action at the level of communication in the direction of a culture that respects gender and the need to overcome all stereotypes and forms of hate speech. On this point, the Commission has already held some important hearings listening to the President of the Commission for Equal Opportunities of the RAI (Usigrai) Union of Trade Unions, the President of the Order of Journalists of Lazio, the President of the Association of Free Independent Journalists (Julia) and the summits of RAI and AGCOM, as well as some communication experts. Through these hearings, the Commission was able to explore, on the one hand, the question of the narration of violence against women and its representation on television and on social networks in order to avoid possible incitements and emulations and, on the other hand, the theme of female representation in the vast world of communication, the web, television and advertising. Also in this regard, the hearings of professors Elisa Giomi and Federica Giardini, both teachers at the University of Roma Tre, as well as, for profiles concerning gender discrimination in advertising language, Dr. Annamaria Arlotta, expert in media communication, have proved very useful. However, the theme of the narration of violence cannot yet be said to be completely exhausted. The issue of violence against women in courtrooms still deserves special attention. It is a subject that in some respects intersects with repression, but for others it characterizes itself. It is therefore the Commission's task to verify, also through the empirical analysis of the judgments - rectius, of one or more judgments - how violence is reported in decisions concerning cases of maltreatment or abuse against women. A second aspect on which the Commission has begun an in-depth study is linked to training, to be understood from a double point of view: on the one hand, as university training for those who, by profession, in their subsequent work experience may have to be confronted with victims of gender-based violence; on the other hand, as school education in the strict sense, and therefore of those who, as educators, will have to promote and build cultural and educational models aimed at proper and sound management of relationships and recognition and respect for differences. More in detail, with regard to university reality, already in the final report of the first survey on the phenomenon was recognized the growing interest of universities in the issue of the fight against gender violence. The Commission of Inquiry in fact carried out interesting surveys at some universities, including that of Palermo, valid testimony of a course of discipline of gender respect, as well as hearings that stimulated interesting ideas: among others, those of Professor Arcidiacono, of the University of Naples Federico II; of Professor Marina Calloni, ordinary of political and social philosophy at the Department of Sociology and Social Research of the University of Milan Bicocca; of Professor Michele Nicoletti, ordinary of political philosophy at the faculty of letters and philosophy of the University of Trento; of Professor Gaetano Manfredi, then President of CRUI, today Minister of University, on the aspect linked to the existence within universities of paths of valorization of gender studies and knowledge of the phenomenon of violence against women, also in order to train the professional figures involved in the prevention and contrast to the phenomenon. On the subject of school education, in the week devoted to anti-violence initiatives against women, the Commission, together with the President of the Council, also visited a higher education institution located in a district in the east of Rome, meeting students and teachers who illustrated the projects carried out by the school on this subject, and a fruitful comparison developed between students. On the other hand, with regard to the second aspect, namely education, the Commission reserves the right to address the issue of education, the differences and the feelings that exist in schools and training plans today. In this context, an essential role is played precisely by teachers, who can work on the deconstruction of stereotypes and prejudices... in the educational relationship. Particular attention should be paid to the issue of textbooks, in the part in which many of them seem to remain unacceptable sexist stereotypes to date. And as already mentioned, in parallel with the hearings, it was intended to proceed with the autopsy of the various regional realities, noting their differences: we have therefore committed ourselves to equalizing these differences towards better models. Unfortunately, the narrowness of the times and the regional peculiarities have not allowed us to have a clear and complete picture of the global situation; nevertheless, this has not been able to prevent us from discovering an exterminated heuristic field on which to deploy our future attention. It has also been realized that, at the side of the problem of violence against women, there is one equally important one: the management of child care, which must be cared for and improved, especially by harmonizing criminal and civil parties with respect for mutual competences. We have also learned from our survey that the entry into force of the Red Code has a favourable opinion on the part of the operators, but also of the victims, which should not be underestimated. Particular attention has been paid to avoiding secondary victimisation and we have been pleased to learn that, since 2010, the CSM has issued a series of resolutions showing sensitivity to this issue. The ambition of this Commission has been and remains to combat the phenomenon in a decisive and structural way and, once it has been described as an exquisitely cultural phenomenon, to attack it with cultural means and instruments, uncomfortable teaching, advertising, pedagogy and even cultural anthropology. Therefore, always in the wake of what is suggested by the Istanbul Convention, we consider repressive measures only as a temporary instrument and we are preparing to coordinate the intellectual resources of our nation, but foreign suggestions are not excluded, in order to make that cultural breakthrough that will act - we are sure - at a deeper level. The Commission therefore wants to continue to focus its efforts in order to make effective the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, according to which countries should exercise due diligence in preventing violence, protecting victims and prosecuting perpetrators. This is the difficult task we feel invested in, first of all as institutions at the service of citizens and, then, as that generation of mothers and fathers who must absolutely remedy this massacre and suffering that is currently too widespread. Aware of the high objective we have set ourselves, I am sure that we will not waste this rare opportunity offered to us and our generation so that the epochal turning point for effective gender equality can be achieved. There are still too many stereotypes that need to be disassembled and that are no longer tolerable in our time and by our standards of civil nation. The Movimento 5 Star Group therefore voted in favour of extending the Commission's activities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u104	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXII, No 9-a, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 244 Senators voting 243 Majority 122 Favourites 243]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] The measure was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u105	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1171. I would remind you that at the sitting of 30 January the rapporteur gave the oral report. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u108	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am speaking only to declare the Italian Group Viva - P.S.I.'s vote in favour, because the bill of ratification is based on a series of regulations designed to ensure the safest storage of a highly polluting material, such as mercury. That is why we need a global regulatory instrument, which is legally binding at international level, and that is why it is important that Italy also approve the measure in our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u111	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I speak very quickly, only to declare the vote in favour of Forza Italia to a measure which, in fact, will favour more controls in order to address a serious problem, such as that of methylmercury, which has caused so many deaths. In fact, 1,784 people are dead because of Minamata's disease. I ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it can be published in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u112	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u115	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I intend to use all the time available to me for my explanation of vote, because this Convention is particularly important. The aim is to protect health and the environment from anthropogenic emissions and releases of mercury and its compounds. As we know, mercury is a highly polluting mineral, which is applied in various areas, from medicine to electronics and chemistry. Due to the danger to health and the environment, the use of this mineral has been subject to strict safety rules in the European Union and Italy. The restrictive criteria and safety protocols are at the forefront, but there are many countries where these rules are not followed and hence the need to establish standards common to all countries. The Convention that we are about to adopt is, in fact, a step forward in the harmonisation of legislation at international level, thus addressing the dangers arising from the release of this substance into the environment, everywhere in the world. The MoVimente 5 Stars has always been attentive to the environment, which is one of our stars. Environmental sustainability policies are part of our culture and our identity and in these years of government we have demonstrated this many times. Pollution knows no bounds. That is why we are particularly convinced that this ratification represents a step forward in the protection of the environment at global level and an act due for the next generations, which, thanks also to this Convention, will receive a cleaner and healthier world. Announcement, therefore, the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Star Group, here in the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u116	Senator Ferrara, I see you managed to narrow down your explanation of vote in two minutes: congratulations. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law was adopted unanimously. Colleagues, we should now proceed to the examination of the draft law laying down provisions for the promotion and support of reading, but since we would not be able to complete the examination before the break, on the proposal of the Democratic Party Group, I believe with the accession of the other Groups, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 5 p.m. with the examination of this item on the agenda. (The sitting was suspended at 2.19 p.m. and resumed at 5.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u119	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to inform the House of two incidents which I consider to be particularly serious and which I believe should interest us all and alarm us all. This morning a plico was delivered to the Democratic Party headquarters from Germany and containing dust that was delivered to the police to examine its content. This plico has the same nature as five other similar plicos, always arrived in the Democratic Party headquarters in recent weeks. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that for the last two months the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" has been receiving similar forms of threat and pressure, threatening letters of which I am not now describing the contents, but very serious and also in that case plichi containing dust, threats to editors, threats to the director and threats to the founder of the newspaper. I believe that we must bear in mind that, in a condition of weakness such as that of Italian democracy, our social fabric is very fragile and of this fragility I see the risks and dangers and I also see - I must say very frankly - a design. We always know that whenever in recent history the exversion, terrorism and political violence have tried to attack national communities, they have done so above all by trying to weaken those who are the bastions of a modern democracy. These are above all the political parties and the free press, which are the two great forces that defend and carry on their shoulders the responsibility for defending the democratic system. I have a lot of confidence in the work that police and police are doing to identify the origin of these facts of which I wanted to inform the Senate Assembly. But I must tell you that, on our part too, we need a great deal of awareness of the gravity of the situation. I think we should have, as far as possible, a view a little longer than what we are used to having. We must certainly take care of Parliament's daily activities, work on the measures we have on the agenda, but we must also bear in mind that it is our duty to ensure the continuity of the democratic maintenance of our system. It seems to me that the repetition of these incidents must alarm us and I really ask the presidency of the Senate, whom I thank for giving me the floor, to help us keep the House informed of the evolution of facts which, today and today, are only announcements, but on which we must ensure that they do not turn into something more serious. [[Applause from the PD and IV-P.S.I. Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u120	Senator Zanda, just to complete your request for information, I can inform you that a similar letter, made specifically of four envelopes, one above the other, with a content very similar to what you mentioned and always coming from Germany, was delivered to the seat of the party that I have the honour to represent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u123	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I rise in connection with the news that you have just given this House and I join in the words of concern and commitment to safeguarding democracy and popular sovereignty just spoken by Senator Zanda. All of us, all political forces, must never lower our guard against actions that are clearly intended to pollute democratic life, the clear intention to intimidate those who, legitimately and democratically, exercise democracy and criticism, through their commitment to a political party rather than through their commitment to the editorial activity of journalists and writers. Mr Zanda, we must, however, be aware that this complaint and this condemnation must always be made at 360 degrees. I regret to recall in this House that, too often, attacks, threats and insults against right-wing militants have been ignored or, indeed, taken almost as a natural fact, as they are directed towards those who, to say of someone, would incite hatred. Well, ladies and gentlemen, incitement to hatred comes from all over the world, it comes from anyone who is afraid of popular judgment, it comes from anyone who denies the principle of democracy. At least in this House, I believe that we must all be united in condemning these provocations and threats. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u126	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega-Salvini Premier Group also naturally supports solidarity with these intimidations towards Secretary Zingaretti and the Democratic Party and with all those who are victims of this attitude. Alas, even our movement and our leader, Matteo Salvini are daily victims of intimidation and threats. Our own militants are the object of violence in the streets when they exercise the freedom to manifest and adhere to the ideas that our movement expresses. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I therefore believe that the condemnation of violence must be generalized. We must believe in a democracy that allows everyone to express their ideas from opposing sides and that does not allow anyone to impose their ideas on others. Let us remember those who actually advocate intimidation, violence, damage, sending even real threats, such as those we have received, your party and many others. We believe in democracy, in free elections, and we do not believe that ideas should be imposed by these acts, which must all be condemned in the same way. There are no politicians and political movements of Serie A and Serie B; violence and intimidation must always be condemned to anyone who is being directed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] One cannot distinguish between members of a party and others, between ideas expressed by one movement and others. The attitude must be unique. All too often one gets the feeling that it is in the opinion of some political representatives that certain intimidating acts and some very obvious verbal expressions or threats are justified because, in a certain way, the people who are the victims of them if they are looking for them and others do not deserve them and only they must be guaranteed solidarity. Everyone has the right to express their opinion, to do so democratically and not to be subject to threats. It is not by distinguishing between ideas and representatives of different parties that this result is achieved, but by a common condemnation, which must always be ensured and in any case. We do this today and we expect the same treatment of our movement and our leader when one of these acts takes place; unfortunately it happens every day and words of condemnation are not always raised by other representatives of Italian politics. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u129	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no better opportunity, especially at times like these, than protecting the freedom of the press and the ability to carry out his profession to the full for all reporters and journalists, to make a united reference: freedom of the press is a supreme asset that we must protect in all circumstances, regardless of targets. The threats to journalists, as you all know, are unfortunately not isolated cases in our country. I want to remind everyone of the sacrifice of journalists who have paid with their lives their professional commitment to inform citizens, a commitment that in our country has also meant progress in terms of democracy. You all know Eugenio Scalfari, it's not my turn to remember him. A great journalist whose opinions may not be shared, but the episodes of these days are particularly serious also for the type of threat. By reaffirming the protection and defence of the freedom of the press by Parliament, we intend to repeat, like Movimento 5 Stars, that the rights to information in this country are not touched, we do not look either to the right or to the left and we do not even look at the newspapers of the threatened journalists. These threats to the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" and to "Scalfari" are also an opportunity to remember that we must work to the full to protect also all those reporters who work on the information about the mafia, on the diverted services, on the great delinquency and also in the dialectical relationship that there must be with power. With respect to these professionals we must express the utmost solidarity at all times and in all circumstances, because, beyond people and newspapers, there is the supreme good of defending good journalism and rights and freedom of information. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u132	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would also like to express our full solidarity with the National Secretary of Zingaretti and the entire Democratic Party on the part of the Group of Italy Viva-PSI. Furthermore, I would like to express a clear condemnation of a poisoned climate of threats and violent language and indeed all political forces must be united, not only in condemning these vile and shameful acts, but also in lowering their tones. I also address the colleague of the League who spoke earlier, to say that he is right when he says that condemnation must always be there and must be without if and without but. However, we must be the first to keep proper and attentive tones, because at such a complex and difficult time for this country, we must always set a good example and be the first to have a careful language, because we are first and foremost people who have a public, institutional and responsible role. Therefore, on our part we will never fail to behave in accordance with this institution which we all represent. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u135	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we must condemn without, and without, but the gestures of which Mr Zanda wanted to inform us, because the principle of intimidation of democratic systems cannot have any change, as Senator Pichetto Fratin has rightly suggested. The Forza Italia Group offers the Democratic Party its unconditional solidarity and does not do so because it expects something in return, but because the service of democracy has no price and has no color. Everyone must feel in the condition of being able to offer it, if he believes that this is inalienable and inviolable. Forza Italia has often been the object of violent actions in the various territories; it is clear that it happened when we were in the Government (it happened also on territories where I live and work) and I must say that no one's solidarity has ever been lacking. There must be absolutely no hesitation from this point of view, nor can one rejoice because some daily, perhaps adversary, is the object of this type of action. This belongs to a policy of the past that is not part of our way of being and I am sure it will not be part of our way of being from here on. Therefore, we, as the Forza Italia Group, want to clarify our position and to lend a hand to those who suffer these actions and to condemn, without any misunderstanding, actions of this kind or others which have been the subject of movements or political parties sitting in this House. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u138	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I am speaking not only to associate myself, on behalf of the Group, with the words of solidarity and condemnation of acts that are truly intimidating, but also to say very clearly that we have never had any doubts in condemning and expressing all solidarity when this has happened to forces, people and leaders who are not certain of our political side, as has also happened recently with regard to Mr Meloni. In recent times - and this is very dangerous - a context is emerging in which similar acts of intimidation and threats are increasingly frequent through social media and also, unfortunately, through the classic form of letters and I believe it is essential to be compact in expressing solidarity and then to be consistent in condemnation and clear in expressing what cannot be accepted. The issue of journalists is unfortunately not new, because attacks and intimidation towards the right and freedom of the press - alas - have repeated frequently also in our country, but we see with concern the continuous repetition of these episodes. That is why we must always be vigilant and our solidarity is complete, as is our condemnation. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u139	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo delle Scienze Humani (Liceo delle Scienze Humani), Queen Margherita of Turin, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u142	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking in defence of Parliament, this House and this Senate. For a few days now, the incompetence of some people, some parliamentarians and some political representatives has led me to make some statements. The first: this morning I made a statement to the press to remember what are the tasks of the self-declaration bodies that exist in the House and the Senate. First of all, there must be a guarantee that the policy remains out of it and that the assessment of the appropriateness of the decision and the application of the law must be absolutely alien, because otherwise the self-dichia is not justified either for the House or for the Senate. Self-declaration is justified only if justice is administered not only with impartiality and independence, but according to the rules and rules do not belong to politics. Politics evaluates the opportunity, which cannot be assessed by the judge. The judge must perform his duties. However, I have seen that there is a coacervo of initiatives to destroy the image of the Senate and self-dedication. First, a fake was used, saying that the decision had already been taken: that is not the case. It was a proposal, even prior to the resignation of my colleague Evangelista; a proposal, as there were others, quite different, the one formulated by me, but set aside. It is therefore completely different. I am now even reading of a conflict of interest. Again, Senator Di Nicola, I feel sorry for you, but think about the justice of our country: now there has been a cut in pensions and who decides on the cut in pensions? The Court of Auditors, which speaks to civil servants, although the cut also concerns the members of the Court of Auditors. AIROLA (M5S). And how did it end? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, speak to me. CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). You're right, Mr. President. I was saying that the Court of Auditors will also be cut, but no one has ever doubted its impartiality and correctness, both when it was right and when it wronged the applicants judges. So is the TAR. In the specific case, although I have no problem of conflict of interest, President, I have reached today's decision to abstain from that trial and that has a specific reason: that of defending the Senate and the principles of self-declaration, which would be put in perhaps by initiatives that as they go up, to prevent a correct decision being taken, by the rules of law and not by the force of the majority. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u145	TAVERNA (M5S). Senator Caliendo, you started your speech by saying that you would defend Parliament. I begin by saying that I am defending Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You made a preamble to say everything, without ever mentioning what was the object of your understanding. I say: the vitals. So, Senator Caliendo, I open a brief parenthesis, which does not concern the legal aspect, of which you certainly have more competence than I do, but it concerns a moral and ethical aspect, on which I, as a representative of Italian citizens, feel I can express myself in this House. Do you know how long it takes for an Italian citizen to retire? At least forty years of contributions; do you know how much it has served some of your colleagues to be recognized the privilege of vitality? Even one day in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then, Senator Caliendo, allow us to strongly reaffirm our idea and we will also do so in the square, despite here we try to defend a privilege and to lower a right, that of legitimately manifesting in the squares against the privilege, which we have already cut. What we are supporting these days is that probably, considering that you, Senator Caliendo, will take life, you would not be the most suitable person to judge whether that vitality should be cut or not. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Out of so many populisms, which you have given us, today I ask you kindly, for the sake of this Parliament, to withdraw your presence within that body, in order to allow whatever judgment is produced not to have that veil of opacity which unfortunately today we feel in the right to remind the Italian citizens. Remember also that this is a privilege that we will not allow it to be reintroduced; it has been cut and the Italians will remind you that it takes a long time to contribute to a pension, and that the remuneration method that you have asked them to forget is the case that you forget it too. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Give up yours!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u148	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I have the doubt that I did not understand Senator Taverna's speech correctly; or I did not understand, since this debate took place in this House, or you did not understand. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] But, I'm sorry, let me... even for a matter of...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u149	Senator Casini, I'm here.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u150	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Then you can also be a guarantor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll think about it. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Since Senator Taverna has just finished saying that - basically this is her reasoning - since Senator Caliendo is in some way involved in this process, it would be better if she left the step in this decision-making process. Did he say that or not? TAVERNA (M5S). Yeah, he gets it, and I'm glad. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). He did not understand: he had already said that he was abstaining a minute ago, so the news this afternoon is that his request was accepted in advance by Senator Caliendo. TAVERNA (M5S). Then you don't understand. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Because Senator Caliendo... sorry, but words make sense! TAVERNA (M5S). And you didn't get it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues! CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). I can be here for hours: Senator Caliendo has come here to explain that there is no rational motivation and he has set the example of the President or members of the Court of Auditors who decide on what is a matter of concern to them, exactly as it was in the case in which he was concerned. However, he also added that, in order to prevent misunderstandings on the point, he formally decided to abstain from this examination. I therefore believe that for once we should praise Senator Caliendo and agree that the Taverna praise has been accepted in advance, even before the manifestation that you will do, legitimately, when you want to do it. Then I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that opposing citizens' rights and the right of Members of Parliament is, in my view, the wrong thing in substantial terms. However, it is an incardinated procedure within the Commission based on a principle of self-declaration that exists, that we can change, but that exists since the Constitution and the democratic order of the country was made. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I'm not making a judgment on the subject, so I don't understand all this excitement. I'm simply saying that this afternoon I don't see any reason for controversy because, even before you spoke, Senator Caliendo said he would abstain. For me, Senator Caliendo, if you want me to tell you my opinion, it's good. You did the right thing to do this, just to avoid any misunderstandings. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u151	We greet students and teachers, who this time are in the first-class gallery, of the Technical Trade Institute (Terra di lavoro) in Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u152	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 1421, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Verducci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u153	Mr President, I would like to say to you that I am going to put the full text of the report in my speech on some of the points and stress certain passages in the draft law to our examination, much awaited by the subjects in the book, book publishing and reading sectors. A very urgent measure. I would like to thank Minister Franceschini for his presence, which underlines the importance of the bill on reading. This is a very urgent measure, as I said, which has been apprehending the subjects of the sector for many months, since the House of Deputies was approved last summer, by a very large majority, with the sole exclusion of the abstention vote of colleagues from Forza Italia and a member of the Mixed Group. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Senate and the House, the first signatory, Mr Piccoli Nardelli. We wanted to vote here so that the text would not return to the House with the risk that the time would be greatly longer. I would like to thank all my colleagues and, in particular, those of the opposition for this. He's not rude to them. The fact that I have approved some of their agendas - I am thinking of the two proposed by Senator Saponara, whom I thank, in addition to the one proposed by Mr Marilotti - says of a joint vote that I hope will be in this House today. President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I said that this is a very long-awaited measure by those who, in a thousand difficulties, with stubbornness, passion for a project and civil commitment make a bookcase live, perhaps in a difficult territory. The difficulties are also due to the fact that in Italy we read too little, although ours is a great cultural power and despite our language and our writing are among the most loved and studied in the world. In these years it is as if a link, recognition and legitimacy between the book, reading and our society had been broken. This is very dangerous because a country that does not read is poorer, is more afraid, has no awareness of itself, of its own individual and collective role; a country that does not read is more fragile, has no antibodies to the risk of a return obscurantism, which feeds on mental closure and very often false news, manipulation and discrimination, which often travel on social networks that occupy much of our time and, above all, of the time of younger generations in an incessant emotional engagement that feeds itself and becomes a unique context and affects reading and its potential. Not to read are mainly the youngest, but also people who experience the greatest economic and social difficulties. There is, therefore, a great problem of social inequality and non-protagonism because reading means critical thinking, emancipation, pluralism and democracy. The abyss of the twentieth century that we have behind us had just one of the blackest pages in the burning of books by the Nazis in 1933, followed by the extermination of the Jews. The law wants to try to reverse this downward trend and reverse this situation. It is a piece of a political and cultural battle of great democratic value and - I shall say it later - of great economic value. When you close a bookstore you turn off some lights, an exchange of thoughts, the place where a piece of community meets and we are all more alone, especially if the library is in a complicated neighborhood of a city or in a minor center of the hinterland, where there are fewer services. Between 2012 and 2017 more than 2,300 book sales points disappeared; more than 4,500 jobs were lost and the greatest difficulties are those of independent and smaller libraries, for an over-exposition, a greater potential of large-scale distribution, for the continuous offensive of Internet commerce. This law is not against large-scale distribution, nor against online; indeed, support for reading will bring more readers and more benefits to everyone, but we believe that the market must have more stringent rules to allow independent, authorial, territorial and community voices to live and say their own. We believe it is right to rebalance the competition between publishers' and independent bookstores, and it is not true that with this law books will cost more; it is not true that discounts will disappear, but they will be regulated, to allow everyone to be on the market. This law, which, as it clarifies an agenda of the undersigned, of the rapporteur, accepted by the Government, can be passed today without going back to the Chamber, to Article 8, which concerns the discipline of prices, says that there will be no retroactive effect, that is, on discounts and promotions, being those bought sales already made. So it will not alter the existing commercial contracts and publishers will have the way and time to reorganise themselves according to this law. It is a measure that puts the theme of reading and its social dimension at the centre of the spotlight and provides for a national action plan, with a specific fund of funding, which consists of local pacts for reading, and therefore puts together on the territory - and this is very important - public and private subjects: municipal libraries, libraries, groups of volunteers - and therefore the civicism that is organized - and school libraries, which devote themselves to instruments for reading children, because those who start reading as a child will never stop, and in a book they will always find themselves and a bigger story in which to identify themselves, an ambition, a project and a dream. This law supports reading for those who are weaker, contrasts educational poverty, doubles the financing for tax credit to libraries and establishes the book of quality libraries, because a brand of recognizability is fundamental on the market, gives the book, inserting it into the supply chain of the gift, also the valorization of the free and solidarity disposal and establishes every year an Italian capital of the book. That's why it's a law that supports our country system. Reading and book are a garrison of democracy, as President Mattarella said, and an economic flywheel. Italian books strengthen the recognizability of our culture and our identity in the world. There is an emotional and sentimental force linked to Italy and the brand Italy that is due to the strength of our books and our writers, as well as cinema, fashion and our way of life. There is an economic chain that has been waiting too long for this law (authors, publishers, distributors, librarians, librarians and readers). In conclusion, Mr President, this law gives strength to the value of work on the book and stops a sale of value that penalizes everyone, starting with readers: it can help to reverse a trend of decline that is not only of the book, but of our society; it speaks of us, of Italy, of who we want to be, of what role we want to have in the world and of which community we want to build, because it speaks of growth and inclusion, linked together through reading. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, as has already been the case in the House and even more so, this vote will take place today by a very large majority. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u154	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u155	Mr President, thank you very much: I am particularly pleased that on such an important subject merit can prevail - as happened in the vote in the Chamber and also in the path that accompanied the approval of the law - and that for once, since it is traditionally rare commodity, the evaluation of the goodness of the measure can prevail over the normal and physiological dialectic and the clash between majority and opposition. In fact, we all know that Italy has a very strong gap - the rapporteur has spoken about very well now - with respect to the reading rate of other countries, including Europe, which have a population similar to ours: there is much to recover. It is a long and difficult work that starts from schools and a series of policies in support of reading and the book. A historical delay has to be overcome and therefore all the measures that go in this direction are useful. Added to this strategic theme is a theme that has become urgent in recent years: to safeguard small bookstores, which are not only places where books are sold but, very often, spaces that keep alive and animated areas of the city that have no social meeting places, or countries, that have in the library a cultural reference point. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For this reason, the measures contained in the measure are important: from the 5% discount to the measures for the promotion of reading, in addition to the increase of tax credit for libraries, which was introduced two years ago in our system and has brought a substantial advantage for more than 700 libraries, which have benefited from this facility in a situation of great difficulty. Therefore, the resources available will be increased and the possibility for small libraries to remain on the market even under very difficult conditions will be increased. I would add that this is an important step, but others must follow. In our order there has been a very important law for decades, modified and integrated a few years ago, on cinema. In application of Article 9 of the Constitution, it was considered that films are such an important cultural product that they justify helping the entire cinema industry, since the law has always helped distributors, producers, authors, cinemas and young authors: the whole chain. If this is valid for the film, it cannot be less valid for the book. So, I think the next step is to work in Parliament, I hope with a broad sharing like that recorded on this measure, on a law that covers the entire publishing chain and that, on the model of cinema, supports all those who help to produce, write and sell books in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u156	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u159	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, this morning in the debate on the motions for the Holocaust, we stressed that knowledge and knowledge represent the antidotes against the enemy poison, which today makes 15 out of every 100 Italians say that they do not believe in the Holocaust. In these days we have had to appeal to the critical sense of false information on coronavirus that is likely to reduce the effectiveness of protective measures. There is a red thread in the age of knowledge and infinite access to information and it is that of the development of critical sense, the ability to discern the truth from false, to verify the correctness of information but also to understand a text correctly. The last investigation by the University of Pisa on the ability to read Italian children made a lot of noise: there is a return illiteracy that must be addressed as a threat to society. So let us welcome this measure, which aims to encourage reading, an area which must find new and innovative ways. Italy, in fact, is also that of book fairs, of communities of readers who meet, of emerging writers and talented, of small bookstores that carry out a real function of cultural garrison on our territories. And then it is necessary to defend these entrepreneurial experiences and encourage the birth of new ones, especially in those realities that are completely lacking, in order to make our children appreciate the depth of thought that only the reading of a book can give, its ability to open new thoughts, sensations and knowledge. It is therefore necessary to strongly support, in addition to authors, publishing houses and booksellers, starting with those smaller companies that fight every day to reaffirm the social and civil value of the production and dissemination of ideas. The measure we are examining concerns all these issues; it is an important regulatory framework that will have to be filled with content, because it needs constant action over time that gives the issue a strategic value in relation to the very quality of our democracy, that of informed and aware people, able to handle correctly all the tools in order to be able to contribute to the construction of the general interest. We have to do this not with a pedantic attitude but by explaining to our kids that: If we want to know the meaning of existence, we must open a book: there at the bottom, in the darkest corner of the chapter, there is a phrase written specifically for us. These are the words of Descartes, the same one who with doubt built the scientific method and in doubt found the philosophical certainty of his own existence. That doubt that only reading and culture can diminish. I therefore announce the vote in favour of this measure of the Group for Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u162	[[Brusio. References by the President]] SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I consider this measure very important for the reasons we have just heard, both from the Minister and the rapporteur, Mr Verducci, because this is a country that really needs to be back to being the cradle of culture. Today Istat data tells us that 60% of Italians do not read books but not even a newspaper. It is an alarming fact that is added to other data that we are very concerned about, especially if we look at the range between eighteen and twenty-four years old, in which there are as many as 600,000 children who have left school - some of them even in the years of compulsory schooling - and 62,000 brains gone abroad. These are data that, in a country where cultural heritage is extraordinarily great and important, we really need to be alarmed. As the Minister said before, there is also a difference, a huge gap also within our country, between North and South. What emerges then is the portrait of a very fragile and poor country not only from the economic point of view, but above all from the educational point of view (even more than twice as much as the European average). There are many causes. Certainly in recent years we have invested a lot of resources on culture but they are not enough yet. In particular, with this provision we must ensure that the promotion of reading can truly become a heritage of society, of the whole community, because this is not a law on the book, but a law on the promotion of reading. Too often we have considered this aspect only a private fact, entrusted to individuals and not instead as the heritage of an entire society. Our Constitution also tells us, through Articles 2, 3 and 9, that reading must be promoted and supported as one of the tools for developing the knowledge and growth of each individual. A society grows and develops together and we need above all to prepare the new generations, the competent and free people with their own thought, autonomous and critical. This is a generation that has often been called very social but not social and therefore we think that even through this provision we can make a promotion also to find the places of aggregation where socialize, where to be together. Important measures such as the cultural bonus and 18apps are all tools that can help promote reading and culture in our country. Reading is a means of spreading and helping especially those who may have economic difficulties or live in a family where there are difficulties even in terms of social distress. We need basically, ladies and gentlemen, to rediscover and create a new cultural well-being in order to have a social and economic well-being. Paper books, especially for our generations, are also the fruit of growth in our daily lives. The book is often the result of a fall in love: a book may have changed our lives and we carry it in our hearts, in our years, in our formation and in our identity. There is no contrast between digital books and paper books, the two must be together, they are complementary. We certainly need to help the whole publishing industry and we need to help bookstores, to enhance libraries. Think of how many small bookstores have been closed over the years. The Minister said well before: a library in a territory, in a municipality, is a garrison of security, of aggregation, is a cultural garrison fundamental for the growth of a community. It is therefore necessary to promote measures that have the ability and the strength to do what we want to do with this law, thinking also of the tax deductions for families in the purchase of books, the teacher's card, the 18app, the implementation of the tax credit for libraries and a market that, inevitably, increasingly complex and complicated, needs the maintenance of a distribution pluralism. Reading, therefore, is all this and, above all, does not make us alone. It does not lead to loneliness; it does not lead to individualism. It's also a generational pact. Then there are also beautiful good practices and initiatives, which are being born in many small municipalities. A few weeks ago it was the initiative of that mayor who thought, for example, not to charge municipal taxes to those who open a library in his municipality; I think this is one of the many beautiful initiatives, precisely because reading and book are care of the mind. Well, then, a national action plan for the promotion of reading also in the school. Tax incentives, therefore, and local pacts for reading; every year a Capital of the book to encourage our Municipalities; digitization to ensure the widest possible access to cultural heritage and its free use: these are just a few main points, but we consider really important also in the changes that must be adopted to the Levi law, which is now 2011, because obviously the country and especially the market have changed. Then there is another non-secondary aspect: just as we did with the donation of food, we can also do, through this law, the donation of books. I am thinking, for example, of donating texts to prison libraries - this is also a way of making social inclusion - and to many other important promotions that will be adopted with this plan, such as discounts, obviously not in December, but in the other months, when publishers will be able to offer discounts on books. In short, it is a first step that we consider important, in a society that needs to find unity and needs to be less divided, less fragmented; above all, it needs good culture and historical memory, because this is a country that needs to find its roots, that have always made it great in the world. So let this law come along and let it be a good thing that, even from the Senate, there can be a united vote on a law that can really help everyone in promoting reading and, therefore, culture. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Steger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u165	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we, the Brothers of Italy, have always been particularly sensitive and concerned about intellectual unemployment, which unfortunately affects our young people in particular. I would not like to disturb Monsieur Lapalisse by saying that reading is an extraordinary tool for achieving knowledge, but the data we have from the Istat survey provide us with an absolutely disastrous, very worrying picture, which lets us think that we will suffer serious damage, especially for the future, in terms of the quality of our society. For these reasons, since the beginning of the legislature, we have filed a proposal for a law. I would like to thank my colleagues in the House, Paola Frassinetti and Federico Mollicone, for many of the content that we find in this text today was already present because it was hoped for in that proposal for a law. That is what previous speakers said: the figures are very worrying, because they betray our nation's delay compared to other European realities. In fact, over the last twenty years we have known a further backwardness reaching the figure of 60 percent of Italians who do not read books. If we go deeper into this report, we find further reasons for concern, such as the fact that there is also a considerable gap between the Mezzogiorno (where only one out of three citizens read books) and the North-East of the country (where one out of two citizens reads books). The fact that cultural consumption is mainly the prerogative of the wealthy classes is another reason that must put to the attention of those who consider themselves the ruling class of a nation the subject of access to cultural consumption. Readers who claim to read more than three books a year are just 85 percent, while only 13 percent read more than one book a month, the so-called strong readers, who are mainly represented by men over fifty - five years of age and - further credit for women - by women of all ages. Italy therefore lives this situation that creates a lack of awareness in living the challenges of contemporary life, a circumstance that also affects the quality of our democracy. There is a strong need for a cultural policy to broaden the social perimeter of readers by expanding a market in which publishers and booksellers can thrive. In 2017, the active publishers were 1,459, divided into small, medium and large: 85 percent of such publishers publish less than 85 works per year; 31 percent are average publishers, i.e. those who publish from eleven to fifty works per year; just 15 percent are great publishers. We at the Brothers of Italy feel particularly close to small and medium-sized publishers, independent bookstores, bookshops, that is, to all those subjects whose turnover is mainly the result of a passion: passion for culture, which is that fragment of eternity that helps us to live. Therefore, as we did in the votes on the articles of the measure, we are particularly pleased with the measures that are being identified. I am thinking, for example, of the National Action Plan for the promotion of reading, the local agreements for reading, the conferral of the title of Italian capital of the book every year to a city, the promotion of reading in schools, measures to combat educational and cultural poverty, the exclusion of VAT from the free supply of books, the planned price and the creation of the register of quality bookshops. However, we have serious doubts about the resources allocated to the implementation of the measure, but we must, we can and we want to vote in favour of this measure, because we are deeply convinced of that statement made by the poet Ezra Pound that books constitute a foundation and a treasure. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u168	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we are absolutely convinced that this measure is going in the right direction, so we will vote for it firmly. Reading is a fundamental issue and has rightly been the focus of the Commission's attention, which has produced a bill that I consider to be quite convincing and appropriate. Today there is a fundamental question on which the efforts of the Government must focus first of all, but also of all the institutions: according to the data that emerge from various reports, in our country there is a real emergency reading, let's call it that. For over fifteen years, beyond some short-term oscillation, the population of non-readers has been virtually fixed, amounting to about 60 percent of people, and there are no alas signs of recovery. Even the constitutional characteristics of non-readers by social belt appear absolutely persistent and unfortunately confirm the factors of inequality and structural disadvantage. Of course, this automatically produces difficulties even in language and it is only the language that makes us equal: "Equal is who knows how to express himself and means the expression of others" as one of the fundamental phrases read in "Letter to a teacher" by Don Milani says. Returning to the data, in 2015 (data processing Istat of 2016) 42 percent of the citizens interviewed declare that they have read at least one book in the twelve months, but if we look at the discriminatory factors compared to the phenomena related to reading, the territorial context of belonging is unfortunately very indicative: at least 48 percent of the residents in the North read at least one book, against 28.8 percent of the South and 33.21 percent of the islands. They are not only cold data, but they describe a situation of great diversity in the country. A further element that determines the experience of reading and the relationship with books is the family environment. The reading is therefore strongly influenced by family habits: the propensity to read children and children proves directly related to the presence of parents who have the habit of reading books. The share of readers of those who have mother and father readers is more than double that of those who have both parents not readers. Welcome, then, to the bill. For example, although the financial resources are always not large (therefore much more investment would be needed), the promotion of reading at school as enshrined in Article 5 of the measure is crucial, because it becomes a further tool for the school to continue its own mission, to train citizens and to combat economic, social and cultural inequalities. And just as we see the continuing unacceptable data, relating precisely to reading, but also to school dispersal and the abnormal dimension of the phenomenon, also in relation to young people who do not study and do not work, raised in disadvantaged families, we record at the same time a real crisis of speech and speech. In particular, we are very concerned that communication between people is taking on forms of reduction and simplification, in clear contrast to the complexity of the contemporary world. A poorer language not only indicates a poorer thought but - alas - is an additional element of inequality. We do not think that this bill can solve everything, but it is certainly a great step forward. I am a member of the Rai Supervisory Committee, as is the rapporteur for the measure, and I believe that we should also call on Rai, who already has some transmission in her own schedule dedicated to reading, to act much more, because as a public service it should be called on to carry out a mission that is even more dedicated to the promotion of reading and books, as it did in the past, when it was a fundamental instrument in this regard. Then there is the issue, which has been discussed a great deal during the examination of this draft law, but also in the past, which concerns the price of distribution. It is a vexed question on which there are different positions between publishers and distributors. There is one point, however, which convinces us: we must put an end to unfair competition in place, especially by the large players who, in the case of online sales, are practically monopolists (or almost) and actually create, with the systematic 15% discount, a problem for small distributors and independent booksellers. There is also another issue: promoting reading and supporting bookstores in neighborhoods, especially in the outskirts, are fundamental tools, because bookstores are a garrison of culture, a garrison of aggregation and a security element. We cannot speak of security alone and only thinking of the right garrison of the territory by the Forces of the Order, but we must make a huge effort (and this bill goes in this sense) to make sure that, for example, the bookstores become our cultural garrison, as well as the theatres, cinemas and places of aggregation, where the real contrast to social disintegration, loneliness and ignorance is made. This is the potential that we entrust to the bill for our examination. The garrison of bookstores and culture reminds us of what Tullio De Mauro said, who taught us that an uneducated people is the one most exposed to the mermaids of the media and more subject to errors when they have to choose; I want to remember him a few days before his death, in a meeting at the Gramsci Institute in Rome, when he shook his head when the reading data were remembered in Italy. In the end his message was this: culture in a democratic society is common good for all and cannot be kept closed only in university classrooms. This is why it is even more central to ensure that the experiences of libraries and the invitation and support for reading become a powerful tool, a democratic tool to fight inequalities and social disintegration. That is why we are voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u169	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto economico professionale (Professional Economic Institute) Don Milani-Sandro Pertini in Taranto, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u172	IORI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with an image that I believe will become indelible and it is already iconic in many respects, that of a child who, on the day of the eviction of the house where he lived with his family in Primavalle, brought with him the school books and those that his father sold at a banquet of antiquity in Porta Portese; nothing but books, paper, but for him very precious. Among the many things he could decide to take with him, he simply wanted books. I believe that this is an image of great beauty, great hope and great humanity. That child chooses to have opportunities and probably the only possibility to emancipate himself from poverty and marginality appeared to him to study, to know and to cross other worlds with the mind. Reading is in fact one of the most important tools that since childhood children have available to grow, develop a sense of self, mature critical sense, get to know each other and open to the new, the unexpected and the unexpected. I believe that in this era of great disintermediation, in which everything takes place on the web, in an eternal present in which simplified, and sometimes false, information is imposed on us in rapid succession without the dimension of time allowing us to deepen (consisting instead of the surface, the flatness, rather than the depth), reading, knowing, thinking are fundamental elements, not only for the cognitive and emotional development of individuals but also for social, economic and political development, so as not to deliver the country to those who want it slave and silent; a country of citizens all equal. Well, that boy, economically more fragile than others and socially weak, seems to show will, curiosity, plans. Well, the sense of that photograph also returns the meaning of the work we have done on this bill, that of highlighting the value of reading, the promotion of the book as an instrument of freedom. Anyone can browse pages and it is precisely for these reasons that the Democratic Party has supported this proposal, as a continuation of a series of measures aimed at investing in culture and knowledge. I am thinking of the application of 18apps, the new mechanisms for the provision of the Single Fund for entertainment, the reform of cinema, the management autonomy of museums. We supported this work because unfortunately our country is a country that does not read. After the Second World War - who is no longer very young - Italians did not yet know our language; a serious problem, which prompted Rai to design a television program led by Maestro Manzi, which was entitled "It is never too late," in which he intended to teach to read and write; the aim was to get out of ignorance, to contribute to the construction of the country. Although today the rate of illiteracy has fallen by far, Italians are not so used to picking up a book and reading it. There are only 60 out of 100 Italians who read at least one book a year. We are the last in Europe and this is in all its evidence a national emergency. If we add to this the latest data recorded by the Invalsi trials that certify the functional illiteracy of many students, the inability to understand a simple text (which evidently describe a picture of profound cultural impoverishment of the youngest and weakest sections of the population), we realize how urgent it is to intervene on knowledge and knowledge. In order to combat material poverty, we must start from combating educational poverty, by promoting reading for children, according to the virtuous example of "Nati" to read "Christmas," or by intervening in school libraries. In this draft law is inserted a targeted intervention, a charter of culture, to help families with low ISEEs to buy books and to enjoy culture in order to promote the diffusion of reading in all possible circumstances; I say this forcefully because I would like to clarify that this is not a law on the price of books, but tries to put order in the system of promotions. The reasons for this choice are in an attempt to help smaller libraries, increasingly penalized by competition from large (real or virtual) multinationals, to survive. In the last five years, according to Confcommercio, 2,332 bookstores have been closed and, for each one that disappears, one loses a place that is a garrison of culture and thought, a deposit of ideas and language. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]] It is therefore certainly a law that contains so many positive measures that, on the one hand, try to balance the interest of the reader, both the so-called strong readers, and the readers to be acquired, and on the other hand, to protect the small bookstores and, in general, the entire chain of the production and distribution of the book, especially in the most disadvantaged areas of the country, where often the libraries also play the function of community development. This law relaunches good practices already active in the country, trying to put in place the most urgent interventions to address the emergencies of the sector. I cite just a few examples: the local agreements for reading (which combine in a virtuous way public subjects and private subjects), libraries, municipal libraries, libraries, school libraries, groups of volunteers; the financing provided for tax credit for libraries is doubled; the register of quality libraries is expected; the Italian capital of the book is established; the book is expected to be considered within the gift chain, allowing free supplies of books and thus encouraging the development of the circular economy and the recovery of goods for the purposes of social solidarity. It is clear that we would have hoped for an even more significant financial effort, but it is an important start and signal to allocate public funds to support the entire book chain, as is the case with culture. In this context, however, an important task must be carried out by the school that must have the ability to spread and encourage the habit and passion for reading, because there are not only textbooks but also the media system can and must do its part. I conclude with a very brief reflection: this is for many, unfortunately, an era of anger, loneliness, loss and existential void. There is an antidote to channeling and understanding these existential conditions and it's called culture, it's called education. In this era where everything runs fast on the web, it seems so difficult to think, to reflect, to stay in silent dialogue with a text. Well, supporting reading is an important message. The only way we might have to resist this wave of neo-illiteracy. Who is curious, who looks outside the porthole, can mitigate his fears and enrich his gaze on the world. For all these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u175	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in the Senate, approved at first reading by the House of Deputies, contains a number of rules aimed at promoting reading at school, public administration, local authorities and other institutions, and is aimed at combating educational and cultural poverty, as well as laying down provisions on the price of books and incentives for bookshops. The bill is, in summary, of absolutely appreciable and worthy content. In fact, in the House he met the maximum sharing by all the parliamentary groups and was approved by almost unanimous vote on 16 July last, landing here in the Senate on 18 July. Precisely because of the goodness of the objectives that this measure brings with it, this branch of Parliament, which we senators represent, could have made a significant contribution and enrichment, giving it added value and also impressing on it our contribution. However, the majority of the Government decided that this measure should be approved as a matter of urgency and that, in the case of amending proposals during the examination in the Commission, it would not be possible to wait for a third reading. I would like to point out that the League has largely supported the content and, therefore, the adoption of this bill for the reasons set out above, but that said, together with the Senators of the Lega Group and the other colleagues of the Opposition Groups, in the Commission we have not given up to present, while aware that some amending proposals would have been made, for the sole purpose - I stress - of improving and enriching its content and certainly not to hinder its final adoption. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to stress, in the presence of the Minister, that it is our responsibility and right to make a contribution to the draft laws, as well as to the decrees, which come to the Commission and to this House. Although only the agendas - those of the League - were accepted, on the one hand, concerned the need to increase the number of librarians because someone who accompanies the children in reading must be there and, on the other hand, they highlighted the difficulty of the newsstands, which in their small always make book proposals - and not the amendments, because of the importance of the measure, which previous colleagues pointed out to me, by announcing the vote in favour of the bill for the promotion and support of reading also by the Lega-Salvini Premier- PSdAz Group, with the regret that all the members of this House - I stress all - could not make any significant contribution to the bill. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u178	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, illustrious members of the government, fellow senators, we have read sad news in the newspapers over the past few weeks. The second oldest bookcase in Italy, the Turin Paravia, founded in the early nineteenth century, closed its doors: evidently the costs were higher than the benefits. Over the past five years, as many colleagues have mentioned, nearly 2,500 bookstores have lived the same fate. It is not an easy time for printing, as a journalist I know from direct experience: in the last eight years newspaper sales have fallen by 60% and the places where newspapers are sold have suffered accordingly. Over the past fifteen years, newsstands have almost halved and 16,000 have closed. There is not only this, there are data on general culture, conscience and the level of knowledge of young people (Invalsi test, the PISA - Programme for international student assessment report, opinion polls and periodic alarms launched by the Accademia della Crusca): the Italian language is becoming impoverished; our young people are mastering it less and less and speaking badly, with all the evidence, means misthinking; they are losing the ability to exercise the critical spirit, as well as supporting the reading of a sufficiently articulated text. This problem obviously concerns all of us. It has been recalled that 40 percent of Italians read one book a year, but I fear that, of that 40 percent, a 50 has lied; of course, 60 percent of our fellow countrymen do not even read one book a year. It is therefore clear that a measure like this has its own function and its own urgency, so it is praiseworthy and it is good that this House welcomes it in unison. Of course, the aim is acceptable and we shared it: perhaps the means could have been different; moreover, if there were the same sensitivity on the priorities and the same tendency to face the problems indicating the same solutions, we would all be in the same party and the government, so democracy would no longer make sense. As far as we are concerned, it would have been better to direct resources with ad hoc measures to directly support at least small bookstores, if not all of them; it was preferred to intervene on prices and discounts, thus intervening on the free market. The measure has a way of tackling a real problem that does not correspond to our political culture, but is nevertheless directed towards a goal that is certainly acceptable. Colleagues, however, we cannot hide behind a finger or pretend to think that this is a problem and this is the solution to the problem; this is instead the consequence of a much wider problem and I believe that those who, like us, make politics and play the legislative role have the duty to frame the problems in their entirety and possibly also to intervene not only on the effects, but on the causes of the social diseases that overwhelm the economy and entire sectors of society. The cause of what we are talking about today is called digital, and it is good to focus the problem once and for all. We are witnessing more or less passively the greatest theft of intellectual property in the history of humanity: the web giants, who are rightly referred to today as the new strong powers and who have important bishops and lobbyists also in this House, are systematically deevaluing knowledge. I am talking about devaluation by referring to the literal meaning of this word: they are losing the value of knowledge, to make it trade for free on social networks, to create traffic flows, to sell data and to offer it to advertisers. Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, when he began his extraordinary business, said that they would do with small publishers what the cheetah does with the wounded gazelle. It seems to me that it is succeeding in its business, that, in addition to devastating an important sector of our economy and losing jobs, it has repercussions that perhaps go far beyond its intentions and the great web gurus. In the 7th Commission, which deals with culture and education in this branch of Parliament, with the consent of all my colleagues - and I understand with a certain participation and interest, regardless of the parties and parliamentary groups of which I am an expression - I have promoted a survey of the effects of digital on young people and in particular on the cognitive process. The first expert we have auditioned is Manfred Spitzer, a German neuropsychiater who wrote several books on this subject, the most famous of which is entitled "Digital Dement." The title clarifies the approach and thesis. It's not about ideology. All the experts who intervened after Spitzer - neurologists, psychologists, psychiatrists, pedagogists, sociologists and graphologists - said the same thing: our young people are gradually and quickly losing all those faculties that for millennia have represented what we briefly called intelligence: memory, critical spirit, the ability to concentrate. Colleagues, this is an irreparable damage that questions all of us, because it has to do with the future of our nation. All experts have said that studying through digital devices is harmful and not useful. There is not a single scientific study that shows that an electronic board, rather than a task done on an iPad, improve students' learning and knowledge. On the other hand, there are many studies that demonstrate exactly the opposite. All the experts have told us that the use of electronic devices - smartphones, social media, video games - can only predict abuse, because it triggers in the human brain the same chemical reactions triggered by cocaine: it releases dopamine, feels pleasure, creates addiction. It is no coincidence that today we have to confront ourselves on this kind of problem - which is the problem of this time - no longer with the United States, but with South Korea, Japan and China, where millions of young people are being treated to be detoxified by digital abuse. Colleagues, this is not an ideological battle. This is the great theme that we will all have to deal with sooner or later, otherwise the problem will not be that our young people will no longer buy books, but that they will no longer be able to read them and will not have the mental capacity to dwell on a text that is longer than 30 lines, understanding their meaning. That is why the measure we are debating is very good. It is unfortunate that it has not been dealt with in an area which is objectively much wider than the one we have debated in this House. But, as they say, better than nothing. In view of this, Forza Italia will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u181	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am about to make an explanation of vote which is particularly close to my heart both as a reading enthusiast and as a member of the Commission for Public Education, cultural heritage of the Senate. As I have already said in this House in the past, I am convinced that a country like ours should, more than ever in this historic moment, invest in culture. And today, in more concrete terms than other occasions, we are talking about this very thing. First of all, I would like to point out that the draft law under consideration is aimed, through various interventions, at promoting and supporting reading; the objective to which the State, the Regions and other territorial authorities contribute, in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation. There is no point snogging data here, because if the sector had not been in crisis there probably would not have been a need to adopt a special law in support not only of publishers, but above all of readers, who must be the main beneficiaries of the legislation that we are about to approve. I would like to explain briefly the main points of the measure. The key measure of the bill provides for an amendment to the so-called Levi law of 2011 on discounts applicable to books, which from now on can be up to 5 percent, instead of up to 15 percent. This also applies to books sold via the Internet and by mail. The books adopted by school institutions as textbooks are an exception to this new choice, with a maximum discount ranging from 20 to 15 percent. No discount limit is imposed on texts sold to libraries. Also on the subject of discounts, there will be the possibility for publishers, only for one month per year and according to specific periods established by the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and for tourism, to offer, for each brand, a discount on the selling price of their books, reaching up to 20 percent. From this discount will be excluded books published in the six months preceding those in which the promotion will take place. The Culture Charter Fund is then set up with an annual budget of EUR 1 million. The fund has donations, bequests, and will provisions of private individuals intended for the purposes of the same fund. It provides that the State will contribute to the cost of the purchase of books, products and cultural services by Italian and foreign nationals resident in the national territory, belonging to economically disadvantaged households. This is through the culture card that will be electronic and will have a nominal value of 100 euros, usable by the holder within one year of the release for the purchase of books, even digital, with ISBN code. It is very important to stress that they must be equipped with such a code. The book of quality libraries is also established, always at the Mibact, to which they can subscribe, at their request, the libraries that have the requirements indicated by decree of the Minister who also defines the modalities of formation and keeping of the book itself. The bookstores that can register are those that exercise in a prevailing way the activity of retailing of books in premises accessible to the public and that guarantee an innovative service and characterized by continuity, diversification of the offer of books and realization of initiatives of cultural promotion of the territory. The law also provides for the establishment by the President of the Council of a National Action Plan for the Promotion of Reading. The Mibact, in agreement with the MIUR, after agreement in a unified conference, will have the task of adopting, every three years, with its own decree the National Plan of Action for the promotion of reading, whose predisposition is entrusted to the center for the book. The aims of this Plan are many: from the valorization of the Italian language to the promotion of the attendance of libraries and libraries, from the diffusion of reading by people with disabilities or with language and learning disorders, to the promotion of reading in prisons, in the school of childhood, in hospitals or at the theatres. In order to allow local authorities to participate in the action plan, it is provided that Municipalities and Region adhere to the same plan through the conclusion of local agreements for reading, aimed at involving libraries and other public entities such as schools, as well as private entities operating in the territory. These pacts provide for interventions to increase the number of regular readers in the reference areas. Institutions and other entities that conclude local pacts may provide specific funding for the implementation of interventions, consistent with the implementation of their respective budgets. Therefore, the involvement of schools of every order and degree that aim to promote reading in the context of their autonomy remains fundamental. To this end, the regional school offices shall identify, with appropriate notices, the school centre, responsible for the school library service of every order and grade. The polo school, with any resources available for the implementation of the local pacts for reading, can promote collaborations between the educational institutions of the network and those of the territory, with particular reference to public reading libraries or other institutions or cultural associations, in order to promote reading among young people. The related projects can also be realized with the use of Rai case materials. Then comes into force the conferral of the title of Italian capital of the book to an Italian city, in order to favor projects, initiatives and activities for the promotion of reading. The title shall be awarded annually by the Council of Ministers to the outcome of a selection on the basis of the projects of the candidate cities. The projects of the designated Italian capital cities of the book will be financed in the limit of expenditure of 500,000 euros per year. I conclude by paraphrasing what Marguerite Yourcenar wrote: The books are grain reserves to be stored for the winter of the spirit. With this bill, I think we've set aside a lot of seeds. Therefore, with conviction, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u182	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u183	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-187.ana.u184	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 6 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.51 a.m.
