ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u4	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Agriculture and Food Policy and the Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalisation will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Nugnes has the right to explain the question 3-01571 on the prospects for reform of the legislation concerning the condition of migrants in Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u5	Mr President, Minister, the Covid-19 emergency has shaken our society very deeply, both in terms of health and economic effects and the effects on life, especially of the popular classes. Extraordinary measures were needed to deal with the macro-problems of exclusion and poverty. Poor among the poor, however, are immigrants and in our country in recent decades this issue has always been addressed in terms of public order and security. The response of the state was too often that of repression, last with the decree security of October 2018, with the repeal of the protection for humanitarian reasons, what was considered by the jurisprudence the safety valve of our constitutionally oriented system, a norm that protected the rights of immigrants, but also those of Italians, because it was a guarantee of health and ethics. With the repeal of humanitarian protection, our system has been deprived of an instrument capable of dealing with emergencies such as the one in place. We have therefore come to create a legal vulnus, so it is necessary to proceed quickly to the adoption of extraordinary measures in order to protect and regularize those foreign citizens already present in our country, the so-called invisible, who in fact cannot be repatriated. It is necessary to introduce an emergency residence permit commensurate with the time of the pandemic and in any case not less than one year, aimed at the search for an occupation that gives sustenance to people who are absent, irregular and invisible, who in fact cannot leave our country precisely because of the pandemic. This action will also support our network and our economic fabric, to cope with the activities of the agricultural sector, the care of people, fishing, construction, logistics, catering, transport and any other sector in which there is need. This will also help to stem caporalate, undeclared work, exploitation and above all will be a health guarantee, because those people today have no protection and are important outbreaks of virus propagation. We know that there will be actions in the re-launching decree, but we consider them to be totally inadequate, as regards both the audience to which they turn, and the timing, and because the contract of employment is put forward with respect to the possibility of job search. There is a need for an action of absolutely emerging legality. Minister, we want to know whether you will be prepared to accept the amendments that Parliament would like to make to the decree-law and whether you intend to make an ad hoc measure in the future to deal systematically with the issue of immigration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u6	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the questioners pay attention to the effect of the epidemiological emergency caused by the spread of the Covid-19 virus, with particular reference to the conditions of irregular foreign nationals already present in our country, asking for an assessment of the adoption of an extraordinary measure allowing regularisation and the emergence of undeclared work. As you know, specific legal provisions have already been introduced in the past which have allowed the emergence of irregular employment relationships. The subject of regularizations, which also emerged in the parliamentary debate on the occasion of the conversion of Decree-Law No. 18 of 17 March 2020 and which was incorporated into two agendas approved by the Senate and the Chamber, involves various profiles, ranging from the needs of the labour market to the emergence of undeclared work, to aspects related to the protection of health and legality. The experience gained with regulatory measures adopted in this field since the 2000s (think of Decree-Law No. 195 of 2002, Decree-Law No. 78 of 2009, Legislative Decree No. 109 of 2012) has seen different audiences, because the requirements from time to time required concerned different types of foreigners and working relationships considered for the emergence. The CNEL also paid particular attention to the issue, with the approval of an agenda of 14 April with which it urges the Government to introduce a measure of emergence in favour of irregular foreigners, in order to protect their health and public hygiene. The aim is to achieve, all the more in a context such as the current one, a balance point, which, with the help of all institutional partners, involves and guarantees the needs of the labour market and the safety conditions of workers. With the ministers Bellanova, Provenzano and Catalfo we worked to develop a hypothesis of regulatory intervention that, on the basis of previous experiences, allows the possibility of concluding a contract of subordinate employment for those who are employed or have been irregularly employed in the agricultural chain, of care for the person and of domestic work. The emergence of black labor would bring back to a legal condition a reality that concerns those workers who are actually employed in the fields, as laborers, and in our homes, as colfs and caretakers. It is clear, therefore, how the intention of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior is to guarantee, even more in the emerging context that we are experiencing, the dignity of people, health security, the protection of legality and the needs of the labour market.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u8	Senator Nugnes has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u9	Minister, this action - as I said - is still not sufficient. This is a first step forward, but not enough. The government has two ways ahead of it: to take a serious measure of emergence of black work, but also to regularize with an emergency residence permit of all others - otherwise we do not know what happens and where they will be - or write another page of useless theater. We must overcome the pandemic emergency, finding a health solution for these invisible, which are serious crisis points for the possible further spread of the pandemic. But especially throughout Italy there are pockets of economic discomfort that can explode at any time. So, right now, the government is taking a huge responsibility not to consider everyone else, anyone who doesn't already have a job relationship. If there is no answer for these, we will probably have social disorders that are difficult to manage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u10	Senator La Pietra has the right to explain the question 3-01566 on how to guarantee the employment of seasonal workers in agriculture, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u11	Minister, as you know, the coronavirus pandemic has severely limited the movement of people within states, and this has led to a strong concern on the part of the agricultural world, which estimates a lack of labour around 200,000 workers. Many have been the appeals launched by the entrepreneurs and we of Brothers of Italy have given them a voice by presenting concrete proposals. I would like to mention a few: we asked for vouchers to be introduced to facilitate employment relationships; we asked for the use of citizens' income recipients. Let's talk about those 800,000 citizens' income recipients eligible for a job offer. What better opportunity than this to finally give a voice to what the 5 Star Movimento colleagues said and, that is, that the income of citizenship was needed to make employment? It seems to me that at the moment this measure has not produced even a job and, paradoxically, you are also firing those 3,000 navigators you had hired. We have turned all these proposals into amendments and the government has rejected them on time. Minister, we have urged you to meet the governments of those countries from which our seasonal farm workers came and who make a big contribution to our agriculture. You have taken part in television programmes in the face of everything, and you have stated that the only solution to these problems is the sanatorium of 600,000 irregular people, even threatening your resignation. Its solution, unacceptable for us, is doubly wrong: it is in practical terms because agriculture does not need 600,000 irregular people who are put in a condition of regularity and general labour, and it is also in communication because in this way it sends out a very precise message and, that is, rewards those who arrived in Italy irregularly, those who are in Italy without respecting the laws and rules and, instead, penalizes those workers who have come to our country for years to give professional support to our agriculture and have always respected the rules and laws. It does not hide behind the fight against undeclared work because this phenomenon - as you know - is fought in another way by giving more resources to the Forces of Order. Then we stop emphasizing black work in agriculture: there are pockets of illegality, but we must fight for what they are. The vast majority of farmers are, on the other hand, honest people who are struggling to comply with the rules. Mr Minister, having said all this, we are asking you why the Government is against the re-introduction of vouchers in agriculture, which farmers consider to be a means of facilitating and simplifying the employment relationship; why the measures for the use of citizens' income recipients have not yet been implemented and whether contacts have been made with the governments of the nations from which seasonal workers come and with what results. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, the whole Government is continuing its efforts to respond to the crisis generated by the pandemic. We are faced with a scenario that has no equal in the history of the Republic and we must live up to this task. For me it applies to aid to businesses, as well as to the protection of people. That is why I fight for measures to support companies and families in difficulty; that is why I work and work to recognize dignity to those who today seem to be invisible to many. With regard to the questions asked, I asked for the inclusion in the agenda of the government's urgent interventions of provisions that allow citizens' income recipients, and not only, also unemployment benefits and benefits, as well as to conclude with employers in the agricultural sector fixed-term contracts without the loss or reduction of the benefits provided for within the limit of 2,000 euros per year. As far as the last question is concerned, I was among the first representatives of the Agriculture Government in Europe to ask for green corridors for goods and people. I'm personally committed to verifying all possibilities. I would like to remind you that the pandemic involves, however, all countries and in some of them, such as Romania, there is curfew in many areas. It is possible to use charter flights, but it should be borne in mind that the workers available, once they arrive in Italy, would be subject to the quarantine measures established to prevent the spread of the infection. And let's not forget to consider the burden of costs that companies would be forced to bear and the risks and tensions that could arise in the territories already hit. Also for this reason I have proposed to create a legal path for the people present in our country, and not only for the primary sector: for a choice of civilizations, to guarantee security to the communities, not to turn on the other side and leave the crime undisturbed in the exploitation of people and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is not the State that takes responsibility for the fight against the caporalate and exploitation, freeing workers, workers and honest farms from this scourge, the alternative is to leave free the mafias. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u13	Senator La Pietra has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u14	Minister, I am completely dissatisfied because you have not answered any questions on the subject. He made only a list of slogans, without any concrete act. He didn't mention the issue of vouchers and he didn't even remember them. As for your activity towards the governments of the countries from which our seasonal workers come, you said that you are working on it, but you did not tell us any actual outcome of what may have happened. You see, Minister, I am dissatisfied, but I am dissatisfied with all those farmers, those fishermen, those farmers who, to date, have not received a single penny of aid and must continue to keep their greenhouses, their animals, their crops. And still today, only words and no help. I conclude by saying to you, Minister, that if you really had the good of agriculture at heart, you would have dozens and dozens of reasons to threaten your resignation from a government unable to give answers. On the contrary, he chose the only reason why agriculture doesn't care about anything. I am thinking of the delay in payments by the Integration Fund and the autonomous contributions or the failure of the public administration to pay. For these reasons, he had to threaten his resignation. One reason for all is the lack of resources for agriculture: in the decree cure Italy, 200 million out of 25 billion; in the next decree - May or June, depending on when it arrives - out of 55 billion not even 2 billion. We are talking about 3% for a sector that, together with agro-food, is worth 20%. You, on the other hand, have chosen to do a sanatorium, to which we will absolutely oppose. Then, Minister, he showed, with his choices, that he did not care about Italian agriculture but, most likely, that he had more at heart the interests of his party. Don't play with Italian farmers' politics. Do not threaten your resignation, but give it if you really want the good of our agriculture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u15	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-01572 on the recruitment of workers for seasonal jobs in agriculture, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u16	Minister, our question is a summary of the content of my speech, which I would like you briefly to listen to because I am talking mainly about people, those of whom you have forgotten. They are the silent protagonists of our agriculture, of our country's agriculture, with their sacrifices, sweat, the desire to restart and rebuild. They do not give up, despite the conscious futility of this Government to their needs. It is the Italian seasonal farm workers, not the illegals, Minister. [[Applause]] I see you're not writing and you're not following me, but a week ago the broadcast "Le Hyene" aired, Minister, the appeal of a Piedmontese fruit farmer named Michele Ponzo and cultivates, collects, preserves and sells fruit for three generations. His company's maximum annual employment is one hundred and fifty people. He was worried because he thought he wouldn't find seasonal workers. It launches the appeal and in five days six hundred job applications came from Italian workers who are in crisis and are unemployed. [[Applause]] He will hire forty Michaels, twenty for the harvest and twenty for the packaging, and they are all people, Minister, who are at home at this time from work. These are not numbers of a sanatoria as you say - 100,000, 200,000 or 300,000 - but they are Italian names, faces and stories, Minister, as Riccardo della Valle d'Aosta, who works in the tourism sector and is at home; Marco, who works in the world of entertainment and is at home; Catherine, twenty-six years old, a Ligurian clerk, is at home; Cosimo, Naples, two children, without work; Francesca, 23 years old in Bologna, unemployed. [[Applause.]] The form, Minister, is substance, but the substance must be removed by applying two basically important measures: the first are the vouchers in agriculture from the outset, which allow flexibility, and the second is the reduction in the cost of labour. We must reduce the cost borne by the employer per employee, which amounts to 35 euros, 75%, as in the less-favoured areas, as we proposed in the budget law and as the Italian farms, farmers, trade unions and trade associations are proposing. Everyone's asking him on his knees. Minister, you answer us today if you want to help, support, if you want to look at the future of Italian agriculture or if you want to continue with your absurd idea and political hypothesis of the sanatoria of illegal immigrants that Italian agriculture does not need at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u17	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u18	Mr President, my fellow Senators have a fair subject: the shortage of labour in agriculture. For those who care about the agricultural sector, it should be quite clear to know that, in order to protect farms, we must defend their income, ensure compliance with the rules for all and protect the reputation of the sector and the country. Dear senators, what you call "those illegals" are people, men and women. [[Applause]] They are workers who have pretended not to see, not to know that they were collecting in the fields products that end up making unfair competition to those many healthy companies that, with difficulty, respect the rights of the people. Well, I want to protect business and protect people. Today we know that the current pandemic has led to radical choices. We have been home for weeks and now that we are gradually returning to reopening, it is my duty to think about how to avoid further risks. It is necessary to manage the health emergency that can arise from the ghettos; it is necessary to remove thousands of people from the blackmail of the corporals. It's too serious a topic for propaganda. And, if I look back on the exultation, in 2018, of authoritative government representatives for the restoration of vouchers, today I wonder why agricultural companies say that vouchers are not there. Who was propaganda, dear senators? [[Applause]] Today we have to respond to the need for seasonal labour and we have to do it seriously. Regularization is a piece, however, on numbers you must not play. The audience that the interrogators talk about also includes colfs and caregivers, workers and workers who take care of disabled people, children, elderly people, families, today even their ghosts, yet so present. Returning to the agricultural workforce, more needs to be done. My commitment goes on. We have extended the permits to workers already present in Italy until December with the decree care Italy. We continue the fight against the caporalate also through regularization. We want to facilitate the recruitment of Italian and foreign workers who are currently unemployed. At the same time, we are committed to economic support for farms in difficulty, to the implementation of the plan for preventing and combating the caporalate which, as a first action, has precisely to determine the needs of agricultural work and to promote the legal cross-breed of supply and demand. We representatives of the institutions, ladies and gentlemen, have a duty to assume responsibility: either the State takes responsibility for the lives of these people, or crime will exploit them. And I want to say clearly in this House before you that I will never be an accomplice to the corporals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u19	Senator Candiani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u20	Minister, you may not have noticed this, but farmers are the ones who work in the fields, and not those who read your books on applied biology, because what you gave in your answer is a totally ideological view of agriculture that has nothing to do with the effort our farmers do in the fields. [[Applause]] Nor do you listen to the associations representing farmers, otherwise you will know that what you are proposing is not what agriculture needs. You are interested only in the maxi sanatoria, those on the comfortable quarantine ships off the coast of Sicily. But let's not be surprised if then the landings increase and quadruple compared to last year, going to frustrate all the efforts we made to the Government to say that the traffic of human beings in Italy cannot have its landing. [[Applause.]] You are giving these messages today, encouraged to come to Italy, so with our sanatories the irregulars pass before even foreign workers regularly present in our territory, who have integrated. You disrespect those two million unemployed Italians and that million Italians who today take the income of citizenship say you stay at home, so replaced their work with that of illegals who regularize with a sanatoria. That's not right, Minister. This is ideological fury and we will do everything possible in democracy to wipe out this umpteenth shame. You are proving to be inadequate to the Government, inadequate for the management of agriculture and for the management of the very serious crisis in which the Italian economy is finding itself. We will not let you ruin beyond Italy, Minister, and also tell President Conte. We will do everything that needs to be done and, if necessary, we will immediately start collecting signatures to bring you to the polls with a referendum and have the abomination of laws that you are doing erase, because you are betraying the Italians and the Italians will make you pay in the ballot box this betrayal. Shame! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u21	Senator Caligiuri has the right to explain the question 3-01576 on how to deal with the lack of seasonal workers in agriculture, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u22	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, the government does not seem to be able to put in place appropriate measures to deal with the crisis arising from the Covid-19. Because of the deep divisions within the majority, the decree was April, now decree I throw again, already from the first indiscretions is generating harsh criticism from all the productive sectors of the Country. The strong tension in the majority of the government has recently increased after the surprising proposal of the Minister in address to regularize over 600,000 irregular foreigners to compensate for the lack of labour in agriculture. The Minister also threatened the resignation in the event of a lack of approval of the sanatoria, while no one in the government group threatened the resignation in defense of Cassaintegrati, traders, autonomous who, after months, await support from the State. [[Applause]] The provision should cover 600,000 foreigners, including workers, colfs and caretakers; a much greater proportion of the 200,000 workers needed by the agricultural sector. The country, because of the virus, is suffering an economic contraction that feeds the already very high unemployment rate. It is even more demagogic and irresponsible to take on the burden of people asking for work and dignified existence, with the risk of not being able to assure them, neither to them nor to our fellow countrymen. It must be remembered that there are subjects with a contractual relationship with the State to date - the so-called navigators, the recipients of citizenship income - who could now - and I stress now - for the common good, make themselves available to carry out work on a voluntary basis in the areas of need. In an emerging phase the need to foresee in our country a different approach to the problem is even stronger, able - on the one hand - to monitor effectively the migratory phenomenon, in all its many economic and social aspects and - on the other hand - to provide coherent responses to the problem of unemployment, in particular for the agricultural sector that, in March alone, has already lost 500,000 days of work compared to last year, equal to 10% of the total. It is therefore called upon to know why, in view of the urgent demand for the labour force on the part of companies, it is not possible to proceed with the immediate use of persons who receive citizenship income and so-called navigators, given the current impossibility to carry out the functions assigned to them; why does not intend to try to restore the instrument of voucher in agriculture, which would guarantee the continuity of the production of the agri-food supply chain, would offer instruments of income integration - for example - to Cassaintegrati, pensioners and students, and would avoid the widespread phenomenon of irregular work; why would it want to proceed with the regularization of 600,000 immigrants in the face of a request of 200,000 people, in fact healing the position of about 400,000 more foreigners; if it does not intend to work to facilitate the return of labour that has already worked in our country and that is specialized in the agricultural sector through the green corridors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u23	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u24	Mr President, my dear colleague, I would like to say that the Government's commitment today is aimed at giving concrete answers to the emergency and the difficulties of millions of businesses and families. Economic choices in an exceptional context such as the present one bring courage. With regard to the first question, I would like to inform the honourable Members that the Government intends to ensure that citizens' income recipients, like all subsidies, can conclude with employers in the agricultural sector fixed-term contracts not exceeding thirty days, renewable for another thirty days, without suffering the loss or reduction of the expected benefits, up to the limit of 2,000 euros for the year 2020. However, let me say that the claim to demand the immediate use of those people is bound by their willingness to go to work in agriculture. Among other things, I would like to remind all of us that agricultural work is also a work of specialization, skills and professionalism. In addition, I would like to point out that it is true that agricultural associations talk about a shortage of seasonal labour between 270 and 350 000 units, but the government's choice includes not only the agricultural sector, but also that of domestic and family care. To mess up numbers, then, is no good to anyone. This is not, however, a matter of statistics: behind the figures there are people, women and men, in conditions of insecurity and fragility; women and men who are our duty to remove from the criminal hands of the exploiters, because the headman is a mafia, is organized crime; this is also to ensure the health security of the communities where they live, because here they live and do not erase themselves with a stroke of pen or turning on the other side. Not safeguarding them is a gift to crime. As far as the last question is concerned, I immediately committed myself to the green corridors in Europe and also to some countries, such as Romania, where at the moment there is curfew in many areas. We know that thousands of foreign workers, especially from the East, who have so far been employed in our campaigns as specialized and seasonal workers, have returned to their countries. We are working to promote their safe return, which also means guaranteeing quarantine for these people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u25	Senator Caliguri has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u26	Mr Minister, we are not satisfied with your reply and I am speaking from two words which you have mentioned: 'numbers' and 'courage'. For us the figures are those relating to the agricultural sector and the agricultural enterprises, which during this period of Covid-19 have continued to guarantee on the counters of supermarkets food products. For us the courage is represented by those entrepreneurs who, together with farm workers, have never stopped despite all the difficulties. [[Applause]] I would therefore have started, Minister, from giving something to farms, but something tangible, quick and quick. Who's gonna pay for these immigrants tomorrow? Farms and farmers. So let us think about the livelihood of farms and how they must go ahead. That is why we continue to fight for vouchers to be taken seriously, because for us they are the fastest, most flexible and most suitable weapon to get out of this crisis and certainly not to give priority to the problem of regularising immigrants. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u27	Senator Faraone has the right to explain question 3 01573 on the risks of shortage of agricultural workers and speculation on product prices for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u28	Minister, you must operate: you are in the government and you must carry out concrete acts. The previous speakers can afford to chat, you must give answers to the Italians, whom they say they want to represent. The Italians say "first" and then forget that farmers, who demand labour at once, are Italian. [[Applause]] The Italians say "first," after which they forget that those who go to the market and risk finding the prices of fruits and vegetables skyrocketing are Italian citizens. The Italians say "first" and forget that, if there is no one going to collect the products in the fields and remain there, besides being a waste, we will find ourselves in the markets those Egyptian oranges that Salvini says that then we are forced to introduce. [[Applause]] So the Italians are said to chat first, but the only one who is taking care of the Italians is you and you must go ahead, Minister, because the farmers are asking us to do so. As well as, Minister, you have proposed that those who receive citizenship income can very well... [[Comments.]] Mr President, of course, I will be able to make up for the time lost for the interruptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u29	Colleagues, everyone has expressed their own question and the Minister has made his own observations: let Senator Pharaoh do it too.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u30	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Minister, you are right to propose that those who receive citizenship income or any assistance may, and indeed should, be encouraged to go to work in the fields. You have proposed it and now we are also waiting for concrete actions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in this direction, as you have proposed a portal to cross the demand and supply between Italian farmers and Italian workers who want to go to work in the fields. So, Minister, this is what the Italians need, after which we leave the chatter and propaganda to those who perhaps can afford to come back here again to intervene in the question time and ask why he raised the prices up to this level or because he is doing this work and not that: they will intervene in another question time because for them it is always necessary to go against Italy and not to put the Italians first. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u31	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u32	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the operators in the agri-food chain, the life supply chain, which has also ensured at the most dramatic stage of the pandemic the necessary and constant supply of food. [[Applause]] It is true that during this period we witnessed the increase in the price of some products. On this evidence that results in damage to citizens, especially the most fragile ones, as on risk speculation, I have intervened several times and against unfair practices I have arranged to have a special e-mail box opened on the website of the Ministry for alerts, taken over by our inspectorate controls. Certainly the lack of labour contributes to the rise of prices and, if not immediately, to the emergency health risks to add that food and the waste for the many products unsold because of the blockage of the Horeca segment (hotellerie-restaurant-café) and the difficulties of export and for the many crops that risk to rot in the fields. We cannot allow this: we must act immediately to prevent a shortage of food supply. If the harvest season were not guaranteed, the increase in prices would be a consequence, as Istat has already revealed in recent days, and would affect the citizens already considerably tested. That is why I have repeatedly urged Minister Catalfo, so that immediately anyone who wants to make agricultural work available has where and how to apply. With what formation and in which territories? A transparent and public mechanism - which will apply to all, Italian and foreign workers, cash workers and recipients of subsidies - will at the same time enable agricultural enterprises and organisations to indicate needs and cross-fertilisation of labour demand and supply. Today, the priorities are clear: to provide businesses and workers with access to health security devices for the safe operation of activities in the fields. Legality and respect for the rights of businesses and workers must be guaranteed. The transparent crossing of supply and demand removes alibi to those who continue the exploitation of work, damaging with unfair competition thousands of honest companies. They need exceptional reinforcement of defences and controls, especially in certain areas of crisis. Full implementation of the strengthening of the counter-racial plan is essential; regularisation of agricultural workers from my point of view would complement the package of urgent actions. For this reason, I assure my Ministry of the utmost commitment to the continuation of the work, starting with the plan of the needs and the timetable of the crops, on which the work has already begun. At the same time, I believe it is useful to check quickly all the open issues and also the availability of accommodation solutions for seasonal workers within the various projects approved with European and national funds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u33	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u34	Minister, thank you for your timely reply and thank you for the work you are doing, which is absolutely useful for our country, for our products and for our agricultural entrepreneurs. If I'm not mistaken the number of workers missing in the fields, you didn't make it up, but Coldiretti told you and the organizations you pride yourself on representing; but I ask you: Listen to them. Stay here and list all the names and surnames of the farmers you meet, after which you are not even able to read a Coldiretti agency that asks us 350,000 workers to go to the fields! [[Applause]] Read the agencies, at least those. Just as, Mr President, Minister, they are asking for the Green Corridor; be careful, because as soon as you make the green corridor, you will find yourself having to answer in question time to the Legist Senator who will tell you that with the epidemic in place, all these people are coming from the North-East to infect us. That is why, Minister, whatever you do is wrong, because this is always the case for the sovereignists. I'm sorry Senator Centinario quits camp in protest. I am expressing my opinion, as they have expressed it. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u35	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u36	FARAONE (IV-PSI). I speak to you if I don't hear you singing to my left and if I don't see former ministers - fortunately, former ministers - sending me to that country by leaving the Chamber. [[Comments]] Therefore, Mr President, I believe that the Minister must move forward with determination and that we must do so immediately, because entrepreneurs are asking us to intervene immediately, because those products are going badly now, not in a few weeks' time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u37	Senator D'Alfonso has the right to explain the question 3-01577 on initiatives to develop digital services and competences in the Italian public administration, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his presence, because today we can raise a great issue as a reaction to the pandemic that has broken and blocked the normality of our lives. Italy, as far as digital competitiveness is concerned, is in 24th place on 28, before Poland, Greece, Romania and Bulgaria. Also with regard to connectivity, which is one of the elements of measuring digital competitiveness, we are in a better condition than in 2018 as far as broadband is concerned, but we are in difficulty than ultra-fast bandwidth. We must ensure that the municipalities cooperate with the programme of rapidization of information and communications, even overcoming the conflict that normally arises between the creator and the owner of the road site. As for the human capital that characterizes Italy (differently from Europe), we have in fact only 44% of Italians between sixteen and seventy-four years possessing digital skills, instead of a European average of 57%. Only 1% of graduates are ICT skills, i.e. innovation, technology and communication. We have 33% of households that do not have network usage devices, and in the Mezzogiorno we reach 44 percent peaks. Only 10% of public administration employees are trained and tested. We have a problem with the average age of public administration: in Italy it is fifty-two years old and it is the highest average age of the OECD average. Just as we have a problem with the demand for connectivity from the point of view of companies: only 10 percent make online sales. We therefore ask you, Minister, what action is being taken to speed up the public administration's information technology and digitalisation plan, because this digital transition is worth EUR 35 billion? We must do this quickly and quickly, because the pandemic asks us, because it represented an interruption of civilization, of our economy, of closeness and of frontality. We ask you to proceed also by calling together all the territorial and central entities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u39	The Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalization, Dr Pisano, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the honourable Member also pointed out, the current health emergency has highlighted the need and urgency to speed up the process of digitising public administration and our country. Here are some of the initiatives I have taken in the direction you wish, Senator D'Alfonso. On 27 February, I launched the Digital Solidarity project, in which public and private companies offer their digital services free of charge to citizens who have to stay at home. On March 17, the Government, on my proposal, in the decree-law care Italy simplified the procedures that public administrations are required to deal with in order to purchase digital goods and services. The Department for Digital Transformation, for which I am responsible, together with PagoPA and the Agency for Digital Italy (Agid), which I supervise, have consolidated four enabling platforms. The first is the National Registry of the resident population (ANPR), a unique database of the Italian registry which to date includes 6,000 municipalities and 50 million citizens. Compared to when I took up my position last September, ANPR doubled the number of users who from a different part of Italy from that of their municipality can take advantage of digital services. The second is the digital identity, which allows access to online services of public administration and private parties with a single digital identity for each citizen. Compared to September, the Public Digital Identity System (SPID) doubled the number of users, from 3 to 6 million. The third concerns the pagoPA platform, through which to date almost 100 million digital transactions have been carried out towards the public administration (in September last there were 60 million). Since April 20, the IO application can be downloaded into stores, which allows citizens to access many public administration services through a single application. On 21 April, with the Ministers for Technology Innovation and University and Research, I signed a Memorandum of Understanding to develop, with an initial budget of EUR 50 million, the public demand for innovative services. We have completed the census, evaluated all public administration data centers and defined the cloud strategy. As Chairman of the Committee for the spread of ultra-wideband I have given impetus to the work of this body, which on 5 May resolved the use of 1.546 million euros, 400 million euros for schools and 1,146 million euros for vouchers for families and businesses. We have relaunched the Digital Republic project, which today has 90 initiatives to spread digital culture in Italy. Proceeding to the digital transformation of numerous services and activities of the Country is urgent. I confirm the commitment of myself and the Department of which I am responsible to speed up this indispensable process so that our country is ever more up to international competition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u41	Senator Ferrari has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. Let me once again stress a number of points. We thought we could adapt progressively over time to the so-called digital revolution, but in reality the emergency put us in front of the evidence that the digital revolution was and is already in all the homes of the Italians and in all the places of the country: in the homes of the children who every morning engage with the school at a distance with their PCs and mobile phones, in the enterprises that have had to put in smart working many of their employees and in the public offices that have had to continue to guarantee services and information without any more direct contact with the citizens. In short, the country has also been put on this point violently to test the use of technology. That is the reason for our question. We expect a lot from the confrontation between the Parliament that directs and the Government that puts to value, on how to equip Italy with a strategic plan to reduce the delays of the Country in the competitiveness, as the Minister has remembered and first Senator D'Alfonso, and to rethink the role of the State. On the other hand, can we get out of this time without a state more protagonist in public research on technologies? No. Can we leave without the State investing to put all citizens in a position to have much more connection, more devices and more knowledge? No. Can we get out of this without helping the production system improve infrastructure and technological skills? No. Can we finally get out of this without a new transparent pact between the State and citizens on the privacy of people, called to give in to their freedom in exchange for the security that only the State can and must guarantee them? No. Let us look together for the answers to these questions. I conclude by saying that Luca Ricolfi recently wrote that Italy is a country that is trying to promote strong changes without growing. I think that Italy needs to change in order to grow and that precisely by overturning its digital face it can succeed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u43	Senator Mantovani has the right to explain the question 3-01575 on the confidentiality of personal data collected by the tracking application chosen by the Government, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u44	Mr President, kind Minister, in recent weeks, on the basis of several press and online articles, statements by political leaders and other more or less competent subjects on the subject have been frightened of the risks inherent in the confidentiality of data managed by the Immuni app, the digital tracking system of contacts that is intended to be adopted in Italy in order to contain the contagion from Covid-19. It has also been denounced the possibility that such data will be processed or even transferred to foreign or private entities for purposes other than those envisaged. I remember that contact tracing or keeping track, through interviews, of the contacts of a positive patient is one of the public health actions used for the prevention and containment of the spread of many infectious diseases and is an important element within a sustainable post-emergency strategy and return to normality. In this system, digital contact tracing is complementary to the traditional one, making the overall procedure more efficient and with less resources. In this question, I highlighted the process of selecting and adopting this digital system on the basis of the guidelines established by the European Union and, last but not least, in accordance with Article 6 of Decree-Law No 28 of 30 April, now before the Senate. Despite these forecasts, in this Parliament, in the interests of all Italian citizens affected by the current epidemiological emergency, it is necessary to clarify as soon as possible and without any doubt all aspects of this choice. Therefore, it is asked to know whether the development of the Italian digital contact tracing solution complies with the European legislation on personal data protection and the guidelines expressed by the European Union on the use of tracking tools in the context of the emergency related to the Covid-19 and whether there are foreign and private interferences in the development of this app. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalization, Dr Pisano, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question gives me the opportunity to explain the activities carried out so far in order to develop and adopt an Italian digital contact tracing solution (contact tracing), aimed at the containment of Covid-19 contagions and in accordance with European and Italian legislation on the protection of personal data. The aim of the application is to develop a technological model in line with the European Commission's recommendations of 8 April. We are respecting all the general principles set out by the Commission in the Toolbox instrument package of practical measures. Italy is taking part in various meetings with member countries and the European Commission to define an interoperable solution and update the state of progress of our project. On 14 April I had a video link with European Commissioner Mariya Gabriel; on 26 April it was the turn of the German Minister for Digitalization Dorothee Bär; on 4 May a video conference was held with representatives of France, Germany and Spain and on 5 May an informal video conference of the Ministers for Telecommunications and Digitalisation of the European Union. In Italy, the use of the type of contact tracing considered is made possible by special provisions of the Decree-Law of 30 April 2020, n. 28. The government has also acted in harmony with assessments by parliamentarians and political forces, who considered a primary rule necessary, the text of which is now being examined by the competent Senate Commissions. The Data Protection Supervisor considered the prefigured system to be consistent with the principles on the protection of personal data. The application will be downloadable on a voluntary and free basis; it will collect anonymous or pseudoanonymized codes, generated by the application itself downloaded on mobile phones, with absolute exclusion of data related to the geolocation of users. It will use public infrastructure located on the national territory and will be managed by the public company Sogei SpA. The code will be released under open license, verifiable by anyone. The code was granted to the public administration by Bending Spoons, under open, free, perpetual and irrevocable license. The code license, its verification and all security tests are carried out entirely by public entities. Bending Spoons SpA will in no way process the data collected by the application. I can therefore reassure Parliament and all citizens that, in accordance with the procedures laid down, there is no risk, even in the abstract, that the data collected by the app may enter into the availability of foreign and private subjects. The Covid-19 is an enemy of all the people in our country; it is not an enemy of the majority or opposition, it is of all of us. It is on the basis of these beliefs that I have worked these weeks and that I will continue to work, hoping for the precious contribution of all, of the majority and of the opposition, both called to a proof of responsibility that is most necessary for the good of our country and of the European community of which we are part. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u46	Senator Mantovani has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u47	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, of which I am fully satisfied. I think it is important that clarity has been made before Parliament and that the numerous allegations about this should be put to an end. The decentralized and distributed system of storage of contacts, which is also protected by encryption algorithms, minimizes, even in the event of the theft of the phone, the possibility of decoding the data contained therein. Also the national single platform, being destined to contain a minimum part of the data exchanged between the devices, i.e. only the identifiers recorded by the positive devices, complies with the principle of minimization and ensures the impossibility of reidentification, thus ensuring considerable privacy guarantees. As far as foreign interference is concerned, I thank the Minister for demonstrating that digital illiteracy of certain journalism is a vehicle of misinformation and misinformation. In any case, the next publication of the source code of the software that we will install will allow each one to verify in the first person every operation carried out by the app. I hope that the system, which I consider to be a fundamental part of blocking the spread of the epidemic in Italy, will soon become operational, in conjunction with health measures to verify infection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u48	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u51	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, a few minutes ago in the House, a Member of the House, precisely the Member of the Alessandro Pagano League, called Silvia Romano "neoterrorist." I ask you to intervene, on behalf of the Senate, to stigmatize such an intervention that makes us feel so ashamed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u52	Senator Pharaoh, I believe that the stigmatization of this intervention is the prerogative of President Fico, having happened in the House. I therefore believe that this is out of my hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u55	Mr Ferrari (PD). President, yesterday we commemorated the victims of terrorism with interventions from all groups trying to be more responsible and objective than that dark phase of our country's history. It is clear that stigmatization was primarily the responsibility of the President of the House because that fact happened in that branch of Parliament. But since all of us - and you who represent us even more - have and perform a high function representing our country, I do not think that the issue can be closed by saying that it happened to the House and that, therefore, it is up to the President of the House alone. Each of us - and we ask you to be you for us - must associate ourselves with the request that no Italian should be charged and awarded a terrorist's license without being able to prove it, even more so because of a situation such as that which concerns the girl who has just been brought home from our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u56	You will allow me, in connection with this incident, not to go into the matter because you have extracted a piece of a statement. One thing is that one makes a statement in its entirety here, another is that here I notice that something happens to the House that I did not attend and of which I do not have the full report. After all, I believe that an investigation is taking place on these very issues on which I cannot therefore comment until it is concluded. Clarity is being made in several parts; we are waiting to have clarity about the situation in its completeness concerning the liberation of Silvia Romano and then you will make your thoughts when we have a more precise picture of what happened. I never shy away from my responsibilities; nor am I afraid to make some statements. I confine myself only to the caution that is necessary with regard to an episode that I have not witnessed. I do not know what has happened and what has happened; I know that this episode is being clarified. When we have a picture, we will debate here and it seems to me to be a good thing that everyone can intervene on this point. We will have a debate. If you ask, I will be happy to welcome him to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u59	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I do not think that we can at all, on the contrary, in no way should the President of the Senate be held responsible for intervening on what is happening in the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause.]] Senator Cossiga, who has been a senator for several years, proposed - indeed, he practiced - to do as is done in the two famous British colleges of Oxford and Cambridge, where, speaking of the other branch of Parliament, it is not called by his name, but it is said to be "the other place," the other place. I believe that the President of the Senate can not be blamed for any responsibility, especially since, as always, he said he was ready for the debate and for any in-depth discussion on the case. What happens on the other side, however, is not a matter for this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u60	I suspend the sitting until 11 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10:43 a.m. and resumed at 11:07 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u61	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport on the initiatives of the Ministry for Youth Policy and Sport to address the emergency by Covid-19. I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, Mr Spadafora.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the current health emergency has forced us to remodulate our Ministry's programmes and actions, as well as the remodulation of all other government programmes. Young people have been among the main witnesses of very important initiatives in this period of health emergency. I would like to mention, above all, the universal civil service, which has had the capacity, together with its bodies and all the boys, to regenerate and make sure that as many as 27,000 girls and boys of the 30,000 who were in activity have been able to resume their commitment and adapt their programmes to the needs dictated by this emergency. In fact, 3,200 of them never stopped during the entire period of the health emergency. Moreover, the Italian girls and boys have before them just this challenge of the following, that is how to reorganize their lives and their relationships following the new rules that are dictated to us by this health emergency. This is why we have convened for the first week of June a large assembly, a web marathon with thousands of young people who will be representative of all the cultural and religious associations of our country, because together with them we want to discuss a program of activities and actions that the Government will then commit itself to supporting and for which the Government will put its resources. All this in order to make these kids feel, in this new post-emergency phase, protagonists, but above all to allow us as a government to be able to identify the best initiatives and programs that today must adapt to the everyday life of the kids. I am thinking of the fact that it will also change their way of going to university and school, of taking a vacation or of going to study abroad, of being able to do internships, but also simply their sociality. Well, with all these boys and thanks to the new technologies developed by a group of extraordinary boys of the Politecnico di Torino, we organized for the first days of June this marathon that will allow us to have useful elements for our work. This is because even in this period of health emergency all boys and girls can exercise their right to participate and their freedom to choose to help design, each according to their own ideas, a course for the future and concrete actions to be carried out with the support of the Government. In this period of lockdown, as you know, in Italy, but also in the rest of the world, all competitions and sporting activities of all kinds and of all kinds have stopped. For this reason, since the beginning of the health emergency, even before there was lockdown, I have maintained constant relationships with all sports organizations, starting with CONI, the Italian Paralympic Committee, all federations, associated sports disciplines, associations and amateur clubs, sports promotion agencies, all those realities that could give us as a government an immediate perception of what was happening in the country to allow us to take the most appropriate measures. Just yesterday I asked and obtained to participate in an extraordinary junta of the CIP and tomorrow I will participate in an extraordinary junta of the CONI. I have, of course, kept in touch with all the other Ministers for Youth Policy and Sport in other European countries to try, as far as possible, to share a common line. After all, that it was necessary to stop we also understood it from some references of highly symbolic value. I think of the Olympics that were certainly the most evident symbol of this need to stop, but for Italy there were also other important events that were postponed, such as the Giro d'Italia, the International tennis, also the inauguration of UEFA Euro 2020, all appointments that would have helped to guarantee our country that strong record that has always had in the world of the organization of sporting events. The government's line, from this point of view, has always been a line of prudence and protection of health for all. Moreover, the images of the dead, of the people who have been taken away from this epidemic still come back to the mind of each of us, because they do not go back months or years, but still a few weeks ago. That is why we have carefully re-opened the whole sporting world. As you know, in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 4 May we started from the resumption of motor and sports activity for all Italians - and this was an extremely important signal for public opinion - but we also resumed with the training of individual sports, limiting them to the athletes recognized by the CONI and the federations of national interest, that is those who were urgent to return to training in order to be able to participate in competitions and great competitions also at international level. This was necessary because the call that came to us from the whole scientific community was also intended to put in circulation with the first opening of 4 May the least possible number of people, just to begin gradually the reopening. We have worked in these weeks without stopping to respond to the whole world of sport, although attention has often been focused on the theme of football these days. I would therefore like to clarify a few points on this point immediately. I am, as Minister of Sport, fully aware of the importance not only of society, but also of the passion and typhus that are gathered around the theme of football. It would be paradoxical, therefore, if, as Minister of Sport, I did not recognize the importance of this world, not only for the reasons I have just told you, but also because objectively, given to the hand, it represents an important industry of our country, which has an important turnover and a turnover and that gives the tax more than one billion euros a year. Nevertheless, I found it excessive to intensify the political and media debate, incomprehensible - according to my perception - to the eyes of millions of Italians who are still primarily interested in their health and work at the moment. The day before yesterday came the decisions, the assessments more than anything else, of the Technical-scientific Committee on the protocol proposed by the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) for the resumption of the trainings. There are a number of comments, and I quote three which are particularly significant. The first: the CTS asks that if there is a positive inside the team, the whole team be quarantined, without any external contact. The second is to entrust a considerable responsibility to the doctors of the individual companies, in compliance with and in the implementation of that protocol. The third is that the Scientific and Technical Committee requires that the enormous number of buffers and molecular tests required for footballers should not in any way impact on the general needs and needs of all other citizens. I believe that the comments made by the CTS will be taken into consideration by the Italian Football Federation, which I imagine will update its protocol according to these indications, so as to allow the resumption of training from 18 May. Of course there will still be the need to define the reopening of the championship in the next few days. In this regard, I would also like to be clear: if the championship resumes, as we all hope, it will be because we will have arrived at this decision after an orderly succession of actions, protocols and activities that we will have carried out and that will have allowed us to resume the championship safely for everything and for all those involved in this world. It was not possible in any way to decide, as I have always said from the first day, only for an irresponsible haste or for the instrumental push of anyone. Moreover, the general picture did not allow any further escapes until a few days ago, it was so evident and also in contrast with the protection of health. It seems to me to see objectively that this was an uncertainty that has characterized not only our country, but all the countries. The only countries that decided immediately on a date, are those that blocked the championship, like France and Holland. All the others, from Germany, which will resume, to the other countries, had to postpone this decision in the face of the need to analyze the curve of the contagions and really see what had to be done to make sure that the championship could reopen safely. The government has therefore always kept a very precise and consistent line of prudence and attention to the subject of health, while we have often seen the same presidents of societies change opinions and journalists, with a legitimate evolution of thought and positions, also determined by a continuous change in the situation. On the other hand, we have consistently maintained the same line of caution, without being conditioned by pressures of any kind, so today, if the championship resumes, it will do so because a whole series of necessary and preliminary situations have been fulfilled. Some people have been wondering why, if in a supermarket a cashier is positive, they don't close the store, while in the case of a football team it is prescribed that it should be quarantined. To me the answer seems as obvious as it is trivial: in the supermarket it is possible to keep distance, use protection systems, masks and gloves; football is, by its nature, like all other team sports and in particular contact sports, a sport in which it is not possible to maintain distances and in which the footballers must indeed run, sweat, mark and assemble in a penalty area. From these simple and, I would say, trivial and indisputable evidences, arises the need to predict this self-isolation, as is also confirmed by the case in Germany only three days ago, which involved a team of the German B series. Moreover, I would like to point out that the underestimating of this problem already led, a few weeks ago, to the quarantine of several Serie A teams and of several footballers. So what we would like to do, just to avoid further harming the world of football, is to avoid having to find ourselves again in this situation. After all, they are and we are all aware that for football the need to finish the championship is certainly born not only from sporting motivations, but also from legitimate and indisputable economic reason, being tied to the question of television rights, from whose income depends the balance of the whole system, also of teams heavily indebted. However, let us now turn to all other sports, because, as I have always said - and it is my duty, as Minister, to be faithful to this principle - the world of sport is not just football and football is not just Serie A. All the rest of the world of sports and team sports must resume training on May 18. For this reason we have proposed further guidelines to the technical-scientific committee, precisely to allow all other sports and other disciplines to resume training on May 18th. However, the whole sport must start again. It must share the basic sport and must reopen all those centers that are also a great need and opportunity for Italian citizens, from gyms, dance centers, to all sports facilities and clubs. I will propose for the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the reopening of all these activities and of all these centres on 25 May, or at the latest by 25 May, in the sense that we have already sent the guidelines for the reopening of these centres to the Technical and Scientific Committee, again in this case. If we have a positive response from the CTS even earlier, it is predictable and possible to anticipate this opening even before 25 May. Let us say, however, that the maximum date beyond which we would not like to go is that of 25 May. This protocol, which we sent to the CTS, we developed it once again listening to the many realities of the territories, listening to those who manage these realities and those who have the problem then adapting it to the needs of the individual structures. The individual structures are also very different: we can talk about plants of hundreds or thousands of square meters and small structures. We must therefore ensure that everyone, with a strict protocol respecting certain rules, but then adaptable to different circumstances and situations, has the opportunity to reopen, also because it is the interest of those responsible for these sports facilities of all kinds and of all kinds to be able to guarantee safety, for their customers, because this will clearly appeal to the people themselves to go and overcome fear. We will also make available resources for all those realities that may have economic problems in implementing this protocol quickly. In particular, as some of you will probably know, in all the Federations, already in the allocation of funds at the end of last year, for 2020 had been frozen a figure of about 5% of the amount of contributions to the Federations. It is a figure that, in total, cubes about 17 million euros. That figure was destined at the time with the constraint to identify projects for basic sport, to which the Federations had to devote it. Through the company Sport and Health we will loosen the funds that are at the Federations, but we will also give a very precise and very strict indication to the Federations, that is to support with those 17 million all the sports associations and societies at the local level, so that they can use for example part of those funds also to be helped in the activities of sanitization or adaptation of their systems to the requirements that the protocol will require. On the other hand, the beauty of the world of sports and sports disciplines lies precisely in the fact that we are talking about a multiplicity of completely different cases. So the need for time spent writing this protocol was also determined by the fact that an account is whether we are talking about measures that may concern tennis, another account if they concern sport fishing, or swimming or riding athlete. In short, they are all very different from each other, to which we must absolutely guarantee, by 25 May, that we will reopen. We also placed the theme of the summer centers and, above all, the participation of girls and children, who are often involved in the activities for children in summer. That is why, with the Minister for the Bonetti family, we have signed a protocol and allocated resources to help these summer centers to leave safely. I believe that this investment in basic sport is one of the most important things we must do, because we all know how much basic sport in many territories throughout Italy, from the North to the South, really represents a reference point for thousands of people and families, but also a garrison of legality of the territories, participation and motivation. In the first five months in which I have worked as Minister of Sport I have filmed Italy very far and wide and I really realize how much to activate a sports center, even in a small territory, can be much more important than putting twenty security cameras or any other garrison, because sport, especially the basic sport, is objectively an extremely important cultural garrison in our country. The paradox - and I come to the conclusion - is that this health crisis becomes an opportunity to use tools and resources that we certainly would not have had in ordinary times. So if we want to see a positive side in an extremely dramatic situation such as the one we are experiencing, it is the fact that for the first time there are truly extraordinary resources. Here I would like to mention only some of the measures that I am sure will be approved in the Council of Ministers this afternoon and tell you first of all that, between ordinary resources that were already in the Ministry's availability, but that we are now finalizing to meet the needs of the whole world of sport, from professionals to basic sport, and the extraordinary sums that we have managed to obtain as a Government from the first decree of March, from the liquidity decree to the decree that we will approve this afternoon, we arrive at about one billion euros of total resources for sport, between ordinary and extraordinary funds. Certainly one of the most important measures, even from an economic point of view, was the bonus to sports workers, a world which, due to its specificity, would not have been included in any other part of the decrees of support to other workers. We have already given the bonus to 75,547 sports workers. With the decree that we will approve this afternoon not only there are the resources to finance the other 43,000 who have applied for it for the month of March, but automatically the bonus, without any further requests (so speeding up a bit on the times that in the first phase were necessarily long, because there was no database of these sports workers), for April and May will be automatically refinanced. That's why I have to say thanks to the important work that the Sport and Health company has also accomplished with a platform that worked very well. Then, with the decree that will be approved this afternoon, we introduce, as we were asked above all by the world of basic sport, the redundancy fund by way of derogation for employees enrolled in the professional sports pension fund, clearly limiting it to a compensation ceiling that mainly concerns the lowest categories. Of course, we do not think of the integration fund as an exception for the Serie A footballers. We spoke on some particularly critical aspects that had been reported to us mainly by the operators of the installations, that is, both on the issue of the rents of the public installations, but also on the possibility, that is introduced within this decree, of the renegotiation of the contracts of management of the sports facilities always with public bodies. We have introduced a very important rule, in my opinion, which allows for a 50% reduction in the rent of private installations, from March to July 2020. So it's a retroactive rule and it arrives until July 30, which is the time of closure of the emergency rule as it was conceived in January. However, the demand that came from the world of basic sport was also to have lost funds only for this moment of particularly serious medical emergency, especially for those small realities that already have little resources and that have difficulty in accessing a mortgage, therefore a financing that they then have to repay and that therefore could cause a further debt. We have therefore established a non-refundable support for amateur sports associations and amateur sports clubs with a starting point of 10 million. It will be progressively fed by a fund - which is always in today's decree - that derives from a small percentage that will affect the overall prize pool of the whole world of sports betting and that will feed, from time to time, this support for amateur sports associations and amateur sports societies. We have also provided for ad hoc measures especially for the purchase and use of aids for people with disabilities who want access to the world of sport. Not only for the athletes of the Italian Paralympic Committee, but for anyone at this stage, especially after being stopped for a long time, we have provided special bonuses for this type of situation. As you will recall, already in the previous decree - I hope it will be activated as soon as possible, but this will also depend very much on the Institute for Sports Credit - we have activated a fund, of funding in this case, which for large companies and for larger realities can be of extreme help: 100 million euros at the Institute for Sports Credit, with the characteristic that it will be a zero rate financing and without any warranty request from the sports reality, because it is the Government and the State that put the money in the guarantee fund within the Institute for Sports Credit. Another measure that will start by the end of May is the reopening of the so-called Bando sport and peripheries, which is extremely important for the reasons we said before, that is to modernize the plant of our territory and adapt it, even more at this time, to the needs that derive from the emergency health. We doubled the fund: last year EUR 70 million was available, while this year there will be EUR 140 million for the sport and suburbs ban. More initiatives will follow, such as the voucher for the collection of subscriptions for all subscribers to gyms and sports facilities, and other things that you will see in this afternoon's decree. In conclusion, I really believe that the world of sport can draw from this unfortunately horrible situation that we have also experienced an opportunity and an opportunity to regenerate. I thank the Sports Office for the very commendable work: a small office of the Government of twenty people that is managing a truly complex job and that we intend to bring to completion also through the immediate resumption of the tables for the work on the delegation law approved by the previous Government. This is an important sport delegation law that must be put in order even in so many situations that have emerged even more so in this time of health emergency. I used to mention the subject of sports workers, to which we must absolutely give a solution also for the dignity that must be accorded to all the workers of this world. We will absolutely use the instrument of the delegation law - we have until August - because that will be a great opportunity to give answers, not emergent but long lasting, to the whole system. I would also like to remind you here - just because I have repeatedly heard this inaccuracy about how the aid fund is created for the whole world of sport - that, thanks to that reform made by the last Government, the fund that is allocated to all sports and all federations, to the CONI and to the CIP, of 410 million euros per year is guaranteed regardless of tax revenues determined by football or any other discipline. It is a fund under which we do not go, and of course we are aware that the higher the income of that world - which is certainly largely dependent on football - the more additional resources can come every year. But the fund of 410 million is provided by law and is regardless of everything else. I therefore believe that that reform will serve, because it will also guarantee a clearer governance of the world of sport, giving the CONI the opportunity to work with full functionality and autonomy for its institutional mission that mainly concerns the activity of Olympic preparation, but also giving a clear and indisputable strengthening to the society Sport and Health, which is the real operational arm of the Government, regardless of who is the Minister protempore, and is certainly more than ever an important society, because it responds precisely to the concept of sport and health, of sport as a well-being to be implemented throughout the country. In these weeks we have worked also looking to the future. As you know, despite the health crisis, a few days ago in this House - and I would like to thank all the political forces of majority and opposition for this - we approved the decree-law for the running of the Olympic Games 2026 and the ATP Finals in Turin, which paradoxically will concern the regions particularly affected by the Covid-19. This tells us that young people and sport are definitely two fundamental levers for the restart of our country. Young people will be able to bring us back to the future; sport will also be able to bring us back and look to the future, because it must surely be up to the values it represents, but also the hopes it arouses and the beauty it expresses, both when it is carried out by great champions, and even when it is carried out only for fun by the thousands of girls and boys in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u63	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport. Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u64	Mr President, I take a sentence from the Minister's report when he said that sport is not just football. In fact, I believe that in our country sport cannot be identified exclusively with the world of professional football; certainly we cannot ignore that this discipline represents with the induced one of the main industries of our country; other my colleagues will talk about it, I really hope that the Government will find the right solution to keep together security with the need to have the whole system restarted with caution. In my brief speech, however, I would like to focus on another aspect which is widely mentioned by the Minister, who is equally important and significant. I am referring to the world of basic and amateur sport. Giving voice to the world of sport means also talking about a million operators who risk the devastating effects of the economic crisis related to the emergency from coronavirus which, after two months of forced and inevitable stop, but traumatic, want and must resume. In fact, there are more than 100,000 small amateur realities spread across the territory that in many cases constitute an important part of the fabric of the territorial community, for all the implications that sport involves from the youngest to the adults, to the elderly and people with disabilities. The world of basic sport has often remained invisible in the eyes of the institutions, but it plays a fundamental role in terms of health, sociality, the diffusion of values; realities that are not only related to the result, but to the production of psychophysical well-being diffused thanks to the daily practice in the structures widespread throughout the neighborhoods, in the cities, in our countries. I therefore express my appreciation for the Call for Sports and Outskirts, but we are also talking about a reality that gives work to thousands of people, so not so limited. According to Istat in Italy 20 million people practice sports activities, obviously with different intensity and commitment, but nevertheless they are part of the system; the whole sector produces and contributes to 1.8% of the national GDP and, if we consider the induced, we reach 3.6%, thanks to the supply chain that passes for products and services provided to the almost 12 million members who carry out activities in 95,000 sports associations and societies organized and related to the various sports organizations recognized by the CONI. Well, this whole world is in great crisis. For the fitness sector alone - to give an apparently marginal example - economic damage is estimated at over €45 million per week. I therefore believe that it is important to talk about this sector, which guarantees employment to about one million people who in recent months, due to the dramatic and unexpected crisis, have been left without income. It is therefore urgent to give immediate and effective answers and to support a sector that is also in difficulty for monthly expenses (changes, rents, bills, staff). We know, moreover, that the recovery will not be easy, because there will be a likely decline of the members, of the many fearful maybe of the new contagions and of the many others who will not be able to afford the registration quotas. In addition to the economic aspects, there will be another even more dramatic consequence: millions of children, some with disabilities, will remain without sport and this is a serious problem because - as you mentioned, Minister - we know that motor activity is an indispensable element for physical, cognitive, emotional and social growth. Sports practiced already during childhood and adolescence is important and makes you more aware of your bodily identity, as well as teaching the importance of commitment, compliance with rules and tolerance. Young people measure themselves with their abilities and relate to others and this is a very important baggage that helps to form the personality. In this respect, I therefore welcome the formal presentation to the Technical and Scientific Committee of the guidelines for anticipating the opening of all sports facilities and centres, starting with gyms. The objective of course must be to restart all the sport in the name of safety, therefore with graduality, distance, sanitization of the tools and redefinition of the spaces. That is why I hope that all the most useful measures will be put in place to support basic and amateur sport at this complex stage, including through facilitated credit lines, appropriate fiscal measures, concrete support to the army of unprotected sports workers, aid for rents, loans and other financing measures to which you have referred. We really need an important intervention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. IORI (PD). I'm finishing, Mr. President. We must make an effort to save a fundamental part of the country that cannot be neglected, given the importance it has on the well-being of citizens and the impact on Italy's gross domestic product. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to condense in just five minutes all the considerations I wanted to bring to the attention of the Minister and the House. I will try quickly to give answers to your speech, Minister. This is an intervention frankly eagerly awaited by the whole sports sector; this sector is thirsty for news not only about the aid that has been and will be prepared for the world of sport, but also in relation to the news about recovery. From this point of view there is an important record regarding the resumption of the activity, that has been calendarized around 25 May; therefore, from what has been understood, between 18 and 25 May will arrive the information that will allow the sports sector to start again in order. I do not want to go any further on the state of suffering that affects the world of sport, as it affects many other productive activities of our country. We have focused, both in this and in others, on the sufferings of this sector; it is useless to add suffering to other suffering. However, may I only say a warm greeting to all the operators of the world of sport, no one excluded, who feel virtually close to me at this time and who I have learned to know even more in these days in their versatility and versatility. These are worlds that, in some ways, were also unknown to myself and peculiarities that differentiate the world of sport; you also referred to it in your speech, Minister. I should like to go straight to the details of the reflections I would like to draw your attention to, Minister, and I hope that the other colleagues will also be able to do so. They relate essentially to the initiatives which we, as a League, have submitted in an amending phase to the various successive measures, but which unfortunately have not been accepted. These amendments concerned essential aspects for the recovery of Italian sport and for the possibility of restarting an economy seriously damaged by the emergency coronavirus; I refer to the aspects related to tax relief, the cancellation of grant fees (which have only been suspended and deferred, leaving the problem unchanged), the suspension of loans contracted for the construction or restructuring of sports facilities, the suspension of utilities and taxes, but above all to interventions aimed at upgrading the facilities, when they can be reopened. Unfortunately, the measures that have taken so far have not responded from this point of view. Partly the decree-law relaunched has begun to consider other forms of support and, from the point of view of intellectual honesty, it must be recognized that overall the measures taken have been inspired by new instruments for a new situation. Some of the old schemes have been abandoned, which over the years had never emphasized certain problems in particular, and new instruments have been adopted. I am referring essentially to sports collaborators: the sum allocated, and which will be refinanced through the decree-law relaunch, to date is certainly not satisfactory compared to the general expectations, but it is important however the recognition of the working dignity of these collaborators, all too often ignored, perhaps in some ways also invisible and totally without any legal protection. These aspects are linked to the important preferential possibilities introduced within the liquidity decree, which concern the very important equalization of the world of sports associations and amateur sports clubs to small and medium-sized enterprises. This equivalence has allowed us to overcome some legal obstacles which, from the point of view of the use of soft credit, will certainly make it possible to respond to this sector. Mr Minister, while I understand that there is all the part that I have listed and that unfortunately has not been found, on which the League will play its part in an amending phase, I would like to insist that these attitudes could and should be conducive to the creation of a cultural model different from that seen during these years. You referred to a delegation law: well, such delegation law will be very important to try to strengthen and codify these paths. The intervention that has given results in terms of the recognition of legal dignity to sports workers is indeed important, but it must go further, because - as I said before - they are operators completely without any protection. We need to find out what corrective measures, in the area of social shock absorbers, can definitely improve the performance of these people. Another aspect that I think is important is the so-called sports-saving fund. It starts from a base of 10 million euros, but it can also be increased according to the percentage that will be established for the withdrawal of bets. I believe that this is very important and I refer to the aspects of the delegation law. These interventions must be linked to the possibility of re-establishing a virtuous circle for the financing of Italian sport with mutual aspects. We have seen in these days that the Spanish Liga has offered directly, without anyone asking, 200 million for the recovery of minor sports. Television rights can also contribute, as is the case in other European countries, to the recovery of basic sport. These are conceptual aspects that in terms of principle can go to restore - I repeat - that virtuous circle of Italian sport mutuality that we believe must be reintroduced within our system so that sport can actually serve, through the riches it has, as a driving force for the revival of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u68	Mr President, Minister, I will see you in this House after a week. Minister, many of your considerations have been and are acceptable in principle, but also in practice, also because - as you said - talking about sport and football today may seem excessive or even disrespectful and even offensive. Sport is conceived by many only as a recreation and, above all, today football is considered only as a pure and simple business where there are overpaid athletes and fans often excited. In this dramatic moment there is, unfortunately, an unpleasant and irritating image of the sport of football, which would be given great importance only because of the large amount of money that some movements are able to move. You also mentioned this a while ago, but it is not even fair not to address the problem of irresponsibility or underestimation, given the dramatic moment. Surely, and especially in sports, no one wants to risk anyone's life. It is necessary, however, to remember the needs or needs of those who make sport their profession in exchange for an average monthly salary or, even, very often low. These aspects, in fact, should be one of the priorities and have equal dignity. The government should take proper care of these aspects. We know that sport is indispensable for health, but above all it is a life experience that tends to improve everyone. For this reason, sometimes it is incomprehensible the insuffering or skepticism towards football and, in general, the world of sport and especially those who take their livelihood from football and sport, whatever kind of livelihood there is on the part of those who practice and work in sport. It cannot be the usual pretext that there are more serious and urgent problems that the Government must deal with, because dealing with physical and sporting activities does not mean taking away resources, solutions or support for others and has also told you, Minister. Taking care of football and sport is also concerned with the economy and society, not only with the economy linked to the restart of the Serie A of the football championship, but also and above all with the one that concerns other professionals, other sports, amateur movements, the trade of sports goods, clubs, gymnasiums, swimming pools and, therefore, all employees and their families. Sport is one of the fundamental elements of the flywheel of our economy. Football and sport - let's always remember - not only move public funds, but also many private resources, starting from the many companies that believe and invest in societies, facilities, sporting events and sponsorships. That is why I was pleased that you referred to the single fund in support of EUR 10 million that could be increased. We need non-refundable contributions, we need access to credit, Minister, but not only as a guarantee, but to real credit, with adequate amounts and refunds and installments at least ten years. Clarity is needed on contributions to families and sports centres. It serves, for example, and takes it as a suggestion, that some sports activities normally practiced inside, can be carried out outdoors, maybe in free public spaces, without occupation of public soil. It is necessary to extend the concessions, expired or due, of sports facilities. Certainly, the work of the Scientific Technical Committee, which collaborates with the Government, is difficult and complex, but if the political will is to restart the world of football and the world of sport, it is the Government itself that has the duty to act immediately, with rationality and foresight. I'm glad you mentioned a long-term project. Sometimes, in the face of the natural, and perhaps correct, rigidity (although some considered excessive) of the Scientific Technical Committee, it is the policy that must mediate and decide, perhaps also looking at the European framework. The Scientific Technical Committee does its job. The Scientific Technical Committee collaborates with the Government, but then it is the Government that must do its job, without procrastinating approximately the time to decide. [[Applause.]] Even if there is no particular sympathy for sport such as football, I know perfectly well, Minister, that its role and its decency cannot lead to a crisis in the whole sector. I know you're dealing with it, but the government needs to give the right direction on security, also remembering that football is a 4 billion euro-in-a-turn company, with revenue that you have mentioned, that gives work to thousands of people and that television rights serve the lives of companies and smaller series. And why can't they also be useful for basic sports? Football and sport only need clarity and certainty. Mr. Minister, I'm throwing you a provocation. In Eduardo De Filippo's "Christmas in the Cupiel House" comedy of 1931, Cupiello's son did not like the crib at all; but for this reason he did not hammer the statues of the Madonna, the little girl, the Magi Kings, the shepherds of the ox and the donkey. Minister, please don't use the hammer. It is the duty of the Government and its exit from ambiguity by giving composting, without expressions of annoyance or utterances that suggest a prejudice towards a sport, the line of government, with guidelines not impossible but reasonable, for the restart of football, collective sports and basic sports. Italians have already given ample proof of intelligence, respect for rules and attention. The government should trust the Italians. Now it takes concrete and immediate action and there are all the conditions to do so. Unfortunately, in fact, by deciding not to decide, by not choosing, football, sport and our country are sinking. We must give certainty to the entire Italian sport. Every measure must be side by side with the other to create an umbrella under which anyone can feel, in some way, supported and helped. Tomorrow's Italy cannot and must not be just that of an emergency income or citizenship. You, Minister, I know, we know, you're getting busy. You yourself, Minister, are aware, however, that the measures which have been or have been announced so far are insufficient. In addition, times, rules and modalities either there is no doubt or there is no doubt. I am pleased, and we are pleased, that you were able to announce a reopening on 25 May. But you yourself also said: we will do, we will reopen, we will wait for the protocols. I am glad that, at least for sport, the vouchers have finally been accepted. In short, football and sport must be respected, and must be respected also and above all at the political level, giving them the right weight and dignity, especially at this time. I shall conclude, Mr President, Minister, with a request and a wish. As I have already had occasion to ask you a few days ago in this House, I hope that you and the Government will take stock of the many requests, requests, contributions and suggestions that come from everyone: from Parliament, from the world of football, from the whole sport, giving life immediately and finally to a strong and significant commitment and an initiative to support the whole sports sector. Above all, however, Minister, what is needed is clarity and a long-term perspective. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u70	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for the information, the news and the anticipation you have also given us regarding the interventions that the Government intends to make for the important sector of Sport. Today Italy is a country in which so many people carry out ordinarily sports activities but also a country where there are many diseases related to wrong lifestyles, because of a bad culture of nutrition that leads 46 percent of Italians to be overweight not to mention the childhood obesity that is among the highest in Europe and represents a mortgage on the health conditions of the whole life. In general, the incidence of cardiovascular disease and 35.8 percent. A well-being population has a positive impact on the health system which is lightening its load and can allocate resources in areas of intervention such as scientific research and oncology. Above all, a well-being population is more sheltered from the emergence of new diseases - we have seen it with the pandemic in place - and since the current one may not be the last epidemic, I think it is important to strengthen the forms of primary prevention in order to have a healthier population and with more effective immune systems, ready for future challenges. I believe in sports policies and the great issue of the coming years will be precisely the encouragement of mass sports practice as an ordinary element of the everyday life of all people and of every phase of life. To achieve this goal, amateur sports clubs are a starting point. We talk about realities that historically manage to carry out their activities at the cost of great sacrifices and often only thanks to the commitment of volunteering: coaches, medical staff, escorts, the same athletes and their families. In this reality all of them are in great difficulty today, and we still do not know how many will decide to move forward, unfortunately. This is why it is necessary to support them through the tax lever, encouraging sponsorship and simplifying the bureaucracy that has always been an obstacle. We must intervene with good spending and increase the tax deduction quota for families who enroll their children in a sports course. It is also necessary to support the municipalities in the redevelopment of spaces dedicated to sports and motor activities so that they can become, once the emergency is over, places of sociality like the squares and other places symbol of our community. I too very much welcomed the anticipation of the allocation of additional important financial resources to support, at this particular moment, the whole sporting world. I make a small request for niche, as a senator of the Valle d'Aosta, therefore of a totally alpine context. I would like to ask you whether you can speak with the Government to ensure that the activities relating to lifts, which at this stage of the year are indispensable, for example, for the practice of mountaineering and summer skiing, are unblocked as soon as possible. Despite the initiatives of some regional governors, who in this sense have already partially tried to anticipate some intervention, I believe that there is a need for a national regulatory correction that puts the managers in the position to restart this sports sector which, while being specific, in the economy of our small alpine valleys is very important. For obvious reasons, the mountain is perhaps a safer place where you can imagine a faster return to normality. With regard to professional sport - I too return to the world of football, both out of passion and because it is indeed a huge and important industry also in terms of financial spillovers and employment - I believe that an effort must be made to allow the championships to restart with a reduced formula and that allows to assign the titles and to establish promotions and retrocessions. I admit that it is not easy, I am a doctor and therefore I fully understand the speech you have made about health protocols and therefore you must start with the utmost security, also to protect the entire system from a summer to be spent in litigation and appeals: there would be no worse message from the world of football, but this will become inevitable if the verdicts will not pass from the playing field. Professional football, in general all professional sport, deserves the same attention as any other economic sector and today it is also protected by protecting it from a summer of courts, which risks crashing the entire system. I say this thinking not only of Serie A, but also of the lower championships, where there are societies that have made considerable economic efforts and that legitimately would like to play their chances of promotion and salvation on the ground. The last thought, Minister, concerns the upcoming major events, from the European Football Championship 2021 to the Olympics, on which we voted just last week. I believe that these events must be built from a new perspective, that is, as a landing point for a journey of events and appointments to give new life to tourism. We must capitalise on these events, imagine them as instruments of territorial promotion that develop over a long period, where there is also music alongside sport, there are traditions, there are cultural manifestations. Sport must try to take the hand of all these sectors that today dramatically serve the pandemic crisis. In conclusion, for us these are the guidelines of work that belong to his Dicastery: on the one hand sport as the fundamental pillar of policies of primary prevention for diseases, on the other sport as the lever of restart. To put it in one sentence, a sport with a social vocation at the service of the general interest. Good job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u71	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u72	Minister, sport is the third industry in the country, so it must be considered to all intents and purposes as the business and productive world. Many Members have said this before me: it represents more than 3% of GDP, more than one million employed, more than 20 million practitioners, of which about five million are children. There are 100,000 sports centers, but we must remember that about 30,000 of them risk not reopening for too much bureaucracy yet. We hope that the additional measures provided for in this decree will help the recovery of a sector that is suffering a great deal. We are talking about gyms and pools that have already lost about 35 percent of their turnover. Let's think about sports tourism, the great events, as we remember before and last week, the Milan-Cortina Olympics, the ATP of Turin and many other events that we hope can start again and that concern the different sports disciplines. There is a huge and extraordinary world not only from the economic point of view, but cultural and social, of aggregation and inclusion of our country. There is the sport of the world of sports professionalism and there is the basic sport, both are fundamental, but it is an area that needs an organic vision, a programming. Well then, Minister, all the measures in support that you have already taken, first with the care of Italy and then with the decree relaunch, which in the next few hours will be at the attention of the Council of Ministers. However, we need to give certainty and planning. We need to make investments immediately, to restart the extraordinary work that is done in the territories. The agreement on summer centers, for example, is good, starting the third sector and, therefore, the whole world of volunteering and sports clubs in the territories. Well, then, the agreement between you and Minister Bonetti. It means starting again from the social, educational value, from the fight against addictions that very often are fought through sport. However, we also think of a new synergy between sport and national and local institutions and in particular at this time of school closure, what it means for so many children and teenagers to stay at home all day long, always connected, online. Sport is therefore a great engine of growth, has an extraordinary and unique value. Therefore we must take advantage of this moment to make an investment in the reorganization of spaces in schools. As Italy Viva we believe in school construction; gyms, in our opinion, must be usable twenty-four hours a day because they are fundamental within every municipality and every territory. So let's think about how to revisit the spaces for our kids. For example, one of the proposals that we put forward as Italia Viva on basic sport is related to how to make it compulsory and free of charge. This means tax deductions for families, also helping associations in the territories to start from this great opportunity. We also think about the mandatory medical prescription of pediatricians, but also for the elderly. Sport is in fact an extraordinary medicine, thinking about childhood obesity, lifestyles and healthy eating. You can do so many important things and we also need competent people, management in sport. We need finally to get the graduates in motor science to work in schools and summer centers. We therefore take advantage of this dramatic moment of crisis to review the sector. Finally, but not least, my appeal, Minister, is to reopen the football championship. My appeal is to football not only as an enthusiast and as a fan, but because everyone really asks for it, millions of Italians ask it. We've reopened and we're reopening everything, so we can do it safely. Well, all the protection and measures, but we have to trust the FIGC health protocol. It is a protocol that has been prepared by competent doctors, experienced doctors of the Spallanzani Institute. We give certainty to football, which makes an extraordinarily important turnover. We also think about the work of the companies to restart the football teams: swabs for all and serological tests. It is clear that first of all it is the sports club and the team itself that have an interest in securing their players. It is an appeal that we make to them in a strong and clear way without any doubt. Let's start the championship again. Let's think about everything that is being lost right now, about television rights and the lack of ticket sales. It is clear that football is very important. Football at all levels, from Serie A to Serie B and Serie C. We also think of all those who work in both professionalism and amateurism. Let us take advantage, Minister, as you rightly pointed out, of the reopening of the many important permanent tables in the world of sport, and also of women's professionalism. We have said this several times and never as at this time it is necessary to respond also to women, extraordinary athletes who today have no legal recognition. We take advantage of this situation, also to give answers to our footballers and our athletes. I therefore believe that there are all the conditions to be able to start again. We make protocols, agreements with regions and municipalities, we work in synergy and you will see that we can do a lot. Minister, I would like to put to you another proposal, which is not only a proposal from Italy Viva, but also a proposal from the Italian football movement. In this regard, I would like to mention, for example, the importance of tax credit for those entrepreneurs who want to continue to sponsor their local and territorial societies. Minister, let us think of this as an important proposal, to be put immediately at the centre of your political agenda, because I believe that in order to restart, even in the territories, we must help all those sports societies, of all disciplines, which perhaps until yesterday had certain sponsorships, that today, with the dramatic crisis that our companies are experiencing, it would certainly be more difficult to continue to guarantee. This could be a way to help local entrepreneurs sponsor local companies. If we do all this work together, starting with the decree-law relaunch, we can really take hold of the world of sport, make it an even more strategic sector, not only from the economic point of view, and also have the opportunity to invest in communication. In this sense, Minister, I am thinking, for example, of a different use of Rai Sport, as is already the case for Rai Scuola. It might be nice to think of a daily strip on Rai Sport, in which we talk about basic sport and all sports disciplines, to get our boys and our girls closer and make this extraordinary world known even more, perhaps also thanks to important testimonials and positive champions, to whom our children look with great interest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u73	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u74	Mr President, Minister, I listened very carefully to you. Unfortunately, I only have ten minutes and I will have to select the topics to deal with. So I immediately began to say, briefly, that I appreciated his great interest in extra-football sports, which he wanted to divide sharply from football, as if there were a dichotomy between the professional world of football and other sports. But let me say that, in doing so, he forgot how much I was taught since I was a boy (and it's been a long time). He will remember that then there was the schedule - in which they scored 1, X, 2 - that was used to finance all the minor sports. This not only has not changed, because in the meantime football gives much more money to the state, in terms of taxes, but also the world of betting, which the successive governments wanted to expand, indirectly brings to other sports all those resources, which you now say to bestow. You say that we have given EUR 1 billion, but we haven't given anything yet: next time you come and say 'we gave', when the decree-law will be there. Of promises that start in April and go to May (now we have arrived this afternoon), we have seen too many. The "relaunch", like what the backs do, had to be there a long time ago. This "raise" will come, I'm sure, but it's not there yet. I would like to say a few words about other sports. Senator Iannone of the Brothers of Italy in the Commission has fought a lot, as some of the colleagues who have spoken before, like my colleague Barbaro della Lega, in favour of other disciplines: I am thinking of sports federations, but also of the associated sports disciplines that are forgotten. I am thinking of the sports promotion agencies that are underestimated; I am thinking of those who have crumbs, as is also apparent from his illustration today, such as fitness, wellness, gyms and swimming pools. On this I don't have the straw tail, but since I have little time I want to talk about a theme that you consider marginal, but passionate millions and millions of Italians: the football competition of Serie A. Beyond the economic data that has been presented, I believe that you cannot underestimate the aspect of the popular interest of football at this level. For God's sake, I realize that you have a culture, that of your belonging party, that has made us lose the Olympics in Rome and that has made the Olympics in Turin impossible. [[Applause]] He has this snobistic attitude towards a certain type of sport. I understand and respect your assessment; I don't appreciate it, but I respect it. But, you see, the world of professional football cannot be put in by the way, as you did today. It is a fact that in my few minutes (otherwise I would have talked a lot about the rest) I will try to face: up to now she has given the impression - certainly wrong - to feed a kind of foreclosure and to be prevented against the football championship. It will not be true, for Christ's sake, but this is a widely diffused opinion and even the cut of his intervention today has confirmed it. But she says, what do I have to do with it? Those prescriptions were made by the Scientific and Technical Committee. This technical-scientific committee, the usual mega experts (then we talk about their content), also ends up assuming the task of saying who must ultimately decide, because in its document it says that the final decision is up to the Minister, that is to say you; it is not true, and it is not up to the Government as a whole, but it is up to Parliament. Put it in your head. [[Applause]] It is up to Parliament to explain this to these doctors, who cannot even assume this task in their document, unless, if they point out to you, it is because there has been a double direction and what they write is partly the result of what you have suggested to them, correctly, because politics must also suggest. Then we don't like this short circuit. But let's come to the central problem of football. Are you going to resume the Serie A championship or are you not going to resume? I would have liked more than you, as a result of your cultural, political and health assessment, to say: no, you can't start. Also because (the advance immediately) personally, from the sporting point of view, I think the championship will still be distorted, but this is a sporting aspect that must decide the League and the FIGC and has nothing to do with the power neither political, nor health. The fact that the championship resumes or not, for a football and sport issue, is beyond our competence. It is up to you to say what the conditions are for it to resume. Now Latin is used less and less, but in Latin law it is said to be impossible nemo tenetur, that is, no one is obliged to do the impossible: if she and her technical-scientific "comitology," indeed "comitology," you impose impossible prescriptions, different from that of Germany, different from those of England and those of France and Holland, that they have decided to close (well, that is also a solution), and you say "yes," open as well, but if by chance one is infected all the members of the team must stand still fourteen days, then say also that the championship according to her and according to the committee cannot resume. It is said: but it is a contact sport! But why, perhaps in Germany and England, do they play without contact and stay away? They invented a new way to play soccer? He can't handle that. As a journalist in one of the two most important sports newspapers noted, even with regard to terminology they have even invented a term, "stringently" to talk about the responsibility of doctors for compliance with quarantine measures. It's up to the doctors of "stringently" societies. They could have used any other adverb, says Alessandro Barbano of the newspaper "Il Corriere dello Sport": no, because this term gives the idea of a total and almost physical responsibility of a doctor on whom you want to download the responsibilities. We believe that, once the protocol has been made, the problem is whether or not to respect it and not to entrust to other responsibilities, perhaps even criminal ones, which they certainly cannot assume. This ministerial scientific autocracy, set up by the whole committee and its, we don't like it, we don't like it at all. If there is a case of positivity during training - which is not yet known when there will be - there are three solutions. One is the one you proposed: the championship ends; if you find a positive, the championship ends. Then why do I speak again? There may be. The second solution is to make the swabs and make them stand still two or three days; if they are positive the others cannot resume, while if they are negative they continue to play. I think that's what they're doing in Germany; who knows why we can't do it. They say it's not fair for them to be able to use tampons. So let's make him pay, maybe salty, triple or quadruple, but we don't get to the banality of saying that football has to use tampons last. Why last? Like the others: Let's give the swabs to everyone: instead of talking a lot, let's really grow the possibility, for anyone who has the right or wants to buy them out of their own pocket, to have them. It can be done, if you engage in that field, instead of continuing, even today, to discuss goat wool before making the decree. I repeat: of goat wool. I am of the opinion that it cannot take responsibility for doctors and that Serie A cannot be put in a position to know that, if it resumes, almost certainly after two weeks it will have to stop. So the Minister will say: I told you you shouldn't take it back. And of course, he's put impossible conditions. Everyone has to do theirs. Then, from the sporting point of view, it's all another talk: he has to decide the football if he wants to assign the championship to those who are at the top of the standings today; he has to decide, for example, whether in the neutral field to make mini tournaments for the first four teams and the last four, to see who relegates and who instead wins the championship. This could also be done and there is a precedent: in 1983 in Rome, Catania, Cremonese and Como played in a week, to decide who would be in Serie A. Lazio had already gone to the top of the standings; I remember it because I attended those games. There are various solutions, but they apply to the sports world: they can also decide that this year the Scudetto is not awarded; very well, it is not his problem. You, Minister, must simply put Parliament in a position to decide whether, like other sports, there can also be for what gives more money to the state, the one that helps more than all other sports, the right to resume in conditions of sufficient security. Also because - and you know very well - a document from the Higher Institute of Health says that up to forty years, except for those who had suffered serious illnesses, the rate of lethality is equal to zero. We hope that this number will remain forever (I am convinced of that). But when you think about security, you have to look at the rate of lethality. Look at it, because the rate of lethality cannot be considered as such (high) only for the world of football, meaning football as such, not those who practice it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u75	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u76	Mr President, I very much appreciated the Minister's report for two reasons, first of all because he has not just focused on the subject that obviously fascinates everyone, that is, the question of when the football championship will resume, on which I will say exactly what I think, but he has tried to provide a fairly clear and acceptable view, as far as we are concerned, of the type of interventions that are being made in this emergency, knowing perfectly well that the emergency Covid-19 has not only impacted on the Serie A football championship, but on everyone. He has impacted on our boys, who can no longer go to play football (maybe so my son breaks less crusader ligaments and this can be an advantage), but on all the children, on the many associations and schools, which are a very important reality in our country, because she knows better than me how many amateur associations, how many football schools, how many types of sports there are and that fortunately are growing more and more. In your report you rightly wanted to focus not only on the aspect of which all the newspapers speak, but on the emergency that we are going through and its impact, in a broad sense, on all sports activities, including so-called minor sports, which are always overlooked, or on gyms and swimming pools, with all that this entails. It is, therefore, a significant social impact because in our country sport has a very strong social connotation. I also very much appreciated the fact that in this crisis, with this emergency, it was rightly thought to restart the ban "Sports and suburbs" because we know how important the role of sport in difficult situations is also from the social and economic point of view, how important it is to aggregate young people, how important, therefore, is the social and cultural impact that this has. I really appreciate it. I would also like to say, with the same frankness, that fortunately you have also done your job in the so-called re-launching decree-law, that is, you have done the job of a minister who knows he is competent in youth policies and sport and has worked for them. Of course now I have heard what we wanted to anticipate, we will see exactly on the substance which interventions will contain the decree-law relaunch, significant interventions that we would certainly have liked very much. Also in the world of sport there are not only the great players who earn so much, but there are many people who even with this crisis have work problems, so the bonus is important, as are the intervention in favor of all these subjects, which you announced, and it is the fund for the revival of sport. You, Minister, have done your job well, but unfortunately I have to say, with a critical point, that, at least from the news we have about the decree-law I raise, other ministers have not done the same, that perhaps they could have had more at heart the issues on which they have the delegation. I therefore give you full notice of this and it is important that - it should be true for everything, we are constantly saying so, but we hope that it is true for sport - this is an opportunity. You can come out of the crises in two ways, as you teach me: you can go out taking so many steps back or instead taking steps forward, taking some of the opportunity, also making a step of renewal. In the world of sport there is a need for innovation, with the possibility of making a qualitative leap, both "to the top floors," Senator La Russa, and to the so-called low floors, therefore smaller, which however affect millions and millions of families, people and young people. I believe that today's event is also an opportunity for all of us who are concerned with this crisis that is so devastating that of course on sport - I repeat - it has had a profound and tearing impact: I think about the postponement of the Olympic Games or even important events for our country, such as the inaugural match of European football, which was to take place in Rome. We also know perfectly well how much this is not only linked to a question of image, but has a remarkable economic impact, in a situation in which the basic sport already had difficulties and in which the football itself, not only the "high" one, but also the B series and the C series have not indifferent economic difficulties. Let us think about the whole issue of television rights. We are well aware of the impact of the crisis on employment, which directly affects not only sports and football clubs, but also the whole world of those who deal with sport and football from morning to evening on radio and television. Among other things, Minister, when I say that this is an opportunity, it is because we cannot hide the truth. Even in professional football there is a deep crisis: that's the point. The current emergency comes in an already very difficult situation, with a not indifferent crisis, which has had consequences, with management on budgets to say the least creative, for example. We know all the problems there are and, above all, we know what has happened over the last ten years. I therefore believe, Minister, that your action may be absolutely worthwhile if we take this opportunity to renew and innovate. Arriving at what is dear to everyone, that is the famous debate on the resumption of the championship. I too am a fan like my colleague Sbrollini and as a fan - I will be a different fan, I don't know, maybe the city you go, different fans you find - I say that for me, as well as many associations of fans have testified in recent weeks, the priority, the fundamental problem, the central issue for everyone is to be able to resume safely. [[Applause]] So there can be no free zones, as Mr La Russa said earlier. Let us not forget that, at the beginning of this pandemic, there was an impact on the world of football because many have been found positive. Do I have to remember the famous Lecce-Atalanta game? Do we want to remember her? We cannot forget what happened to us a short time ago. The top priority is therefore security, and in this respect, Minister, I endorse the way you have moved and your extreme caution, because football is a contact sport. I am beginning to conclude quickly. On the 18th they will resume collective training, as you announced; there is a protocol made by the FIGC. If our whole life, the life of every citizen, is conditioned by the technical-scientific committee, I wonder why this should not happen also for the world of sport. Moreover, knowing that this is a delicate situation, because, if there are cases, they have to agree to stay in lockdown for two months and it is clear to everyone that there is a greater risk. We are rightly referred to here by parliamentary assistants whenever we approach others a little bit more (and it is not that we embrace each other or rejoice), think about what can happen in the world of football and other sports. I repeat, Minister, that we in Liberi and Equal - but I think I am also speaking on behalf of other colleagues - fully and totally share the way in which you have moved, because this has been done with caution. This means respecting sport and above all respecting the health of citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u77	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u78	Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a positive overall view of all the choices made to combat the coronavirus emergency in the sporting field. I would like to use the time I have been given to develop some considerations that I will need to express appreciation, to express a concern and a wish and to address to the Minister - he will allow me - an urge to speed up some choices and possibly to review others. I am very convinced of this appreciation for the attention it has shown today for the world of basic sport. We must get used to considering the basic sport for what it really is, that is, a decisive link of our welfare, of our social state, and a fundamental piece, with a great political importance, of our country's policies for the psychic, physical and social health of our citizens. We must never lose this awareness in making choices. So it is good that in his words there has been recognition of this reality and that interventions have been announced, since the next decree-law relaunch (which should know the launch in the afternoon), in addition to those that have already been adopted. It seems to me that these actions must be emphasized, because they show that there is an awareness of the difficulty that tens of thousands of amateur sports clubs and amateur sports associations will face in order to respect the safety rules that have rightly been put in place and that risk, for some realities, being difficult to sustain or even impossible to support, if they do not have clear support, grants and access to credit that equalizes them to small and medium-sized enterprises. Along with this appreciation I express the concern and the hope that there will be the ability to put into practice, immediately, the commitment that we take with this world, because we cannot afford that words and promises do not immediately follow concrete facts; in fact, too much is the suffering that this world is experiencing. From this point of view, Minister, I invite you to activate, as far as possible, not only the 17 million euros of the CONI fund that you have told us about and the 10 million euros that will be allocated in the relaunch decree, but a continuous and effective involvement in the first place of all 15 sports promotion agencies of this country, around which revolve the passions and interests of hundreds of thousands of Italians. We know that it is important not only to support the offer of sport and therefore the possibility of these realities to continue to operate, realities that are often fundamental interlocutors and essential contact points of the activities of the municipal administrations of this country, but it is also important to support the demand for sport, because the risk that we run is that the economic difficulty of many families leads them to renounce and economize on sport for their children. This would be a damage to welfare, health policies and all the important things I've mentioned before. Finally, because the five minutes at my disposal are very few, with the urge to speed up the choice regarding the restart of the football championship. It seems to me that you have spoken here today of opening up to this possibility. We need to get out of the stage of uncertainty and give ourselves certainties at once. Surely they must be cautious certainty - he often used this word - and responsible. We are, of course, the absolute priority of the right to health; Minister, however, they must also be sustainable and realistic certainties. From this point of view, I would ask you to review the choice discussed this morning by the Scientific Technical Committee that only one case of positivity can trigger quarantine for an entire team. We are not just talking about football because that indication, if I have not misinterpreted it, applies to any team sport and in this country there is not only football. I believe that this choice is important, that goes beyond certain boundaries of sense and reasonableness (of it are not found equal outside our borders) and risks above all to bring to practical effects very different from those declared. It would be a pity, because it would be a stain in a whole set of actions of which I wanted to be very frank and, I hope, also clearly acknowledge it with my speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u79	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u80	Mr President, Minister, I intend to use the few minutes I have available not so much to comment on your information, but rather to highlight the issues which, in my opinion, will have to characterize the work that will have to be done following the measure, which we do not know when it will come - you tell us about this afternoon, we will see - and which I now call a decree, because it seems that there is a bit of everything in it. We do not want to be controversial about important things such as the subject of sport in particular. I am not particularly passionate about the reopening or not of the football championship; I am well aware that the business behind the championship is certainly important and, in some respects, I also understand that it can be interpreted as an economic sector relevant to the state's coffers. I have to bring her back, though, a little more to the ground floor. You, in your information, mentioned the whole world of sports promotion and associated disciplines that, in my opinion, are the real heart of the sports world, because we must not forget that, within these realities, we realize not only the sporting development of our champions, who then go to the Olympics and various championships also of international importance, but an entire world involving children and also the elderly. Let's think, for example, about sweet gymnastics: it's not a second-floor thing. I especially care about the world of disabled people. The integrated sports disciplines offer a whole world the possibility of realization. For some people and for many disabled people, the realization within the sport is the only moment of realization of one's life and I believe that this area should have been emphasized more in its information. I trust that these things will be taken into account in the next steps, because, if a state really wants to be a good father of the family, it must keep in mind everything and not only the world of federations, which is also an important world, but that many times it is not so keen on basic sports such as the world of sport promotion which is also social promotion, let us not forget, because this topic is particularly important. I would therefore like to give you a piece of advice, Minister, in total humility: let us start from below. We do not deal so completely, as happens also in the media in the last few days, when we will resume the championship. We'll resume the championship when it's time to take it back. Today, we must think of giving real realization to the people who, before this misfortune and this tragedy of the Covid-19, through the sports world were able to find the full realization of themselves. I understand that we are not talking about football championship and, therefore, perhaps there is no special attention, but a little bit the whole House should be aware of what it means to do basic sport, as has rightly been said. Therefore, the invitation that I address to you is: let us not mortify that sports world that, many times and in silence, works under track, without asking anything and really going to help those people who do not have the opportunity to get to do the great sports competitions. [[Brusio]] Ma'am, I'm having a hard time hearing from you. [[Recalls of the President]] I would ask you to make this effort, Minister. I would ask you, I repeat, to keep your feet on the ground. Few pindaric flights, feet on the ground, starting also - and it's bad to get to talk about this - from what are then, banally, financial issues. I listened the other day to his live show about "Sport & Health" in which he reported the bonus for sports workers, which, basically, to date has not covered even a little more than 50% of the applications received. I have drawn up two numbers: there are over 131,000 applications that have been submitted and, with the 50 million that were allocated, basically, we have not been able to cover all the applications. Here, I ask you, since you have spoken about what I called the decreen, this afternoon, to really try to give dignity to everyone, because within these 131,000 questions, people are included who make their profession a profession for others: the profession is to help the less skilled, those who do not get to win the gold medal at the Olympics, those who do not win the world championships, but those who really, through a daily sports commitment, make this society really great and make these sporting engagements really great. Finally, Minister, a purpose for the future. You have spoken of funds, which will then have to be used both in terms of sports facilities and in terms of aid to the sports world. Well, let's not forget the associations. Let us try to give practical help to this world and, above all, let us try to honor those who work without going to the great newspapers. So, the whole world of promotion, the whole world of disciplines, in my opinion, should receive a particular eye. I ask you this effort: let us not forget those who make little noise. In fact, these are the people you have the task of listening to more. [[Applause.]] And on this point, remember that we'll be here to check. If there are positive proposals, we will help; of course, if there are no positive proposals, we will oppose them, but it will be an opposition aimed at the concept, aimed at the objective of truly implementing what is the sporting and social dignity of this form of sport and of all the people who practice it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u81	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u82	Mr President, Mr Spadafora, I would like to take advantage of the latter's presence in this Chamber in order to renew an application, which I hope the Government will earnestly accept, in order to show concrete attention to the territories most affected and brought to their knees by the coronavirus emergency. I am talking about the possibility that the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, scheduled for 2026 in Milan and Cortina, can also involve the Bergamo and Brescia valleys of Lombardy, one of the most affected by the health disaster. Val Seriana, Val Brembana, Val di Scalve, Val Camonica Bresciana: our valleys, Minister, have paid, and are paying, the highest price in terms of human lives and our mountains have been the outpost of an unprecedented massacre of innocent people. Not to mention the blockage of the economic system that unites them with all the rest of Italy. It would really be a great signal from the Government, Minister, at no extra cost, if you, who has already been the guarantor of childhood, were today to be the guarantor of the restart with the CONI and with the International Olympic Committee, also through the values of sport, which have always been the common denominator of social and patriotic union and that would allow our country to win the most beautiful medal of games that will take place in six years. In this case, we are talking about mountain areas close to Milan, technically and professionally prepared, which have a wide hospitality hotel, slopes approved also for the international tests of the cross-country world, for ski touring, for the free descent, lifts and snowmaking of absolute avant-garde. It will be my commitment, I hope also shared by you, Minister Spadafora, and by my Lombardy Region, to concentrate all the forces, together with colleagues of the territory and not only, in an absolutely transversal way, along with the world of enterprise and RAI Sport, so that this proposal can become reality. You think that great message, what a great action it would be, Minister, after so much suffering to bring the light of the Olympic torch, a light of hope so brightly, to our mountains. Give us the lever, Minister, because, as I have already said, hope is the most powerful vaccine and we are ready. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u83	Senator De Lucia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u84	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to your attention the story of a footballer, a twenty-three-year-old boy who plays as a middleman in Cologne, works and lives in Germany, but is originally from Belgium. A few days ago, in an interview with a TV show in your country, you said you were very concerned about your family. Three of his teammates, in fact, tested positive for the buffer and were quarantined but the rest of the team didn't. All right, everybody's back in check, but no 15-day stop. Go ahead with the training ahead of the forthcoming Bundesliga recovery. The corporate leaders of Cologne, indeed, after listening to the interview of the virtually terrified player, called him to order and forced a flashback on the company's official website. This story, coming from the country described as the most developed and avant-garde in Europe, struck me very much. Players who play in the top German series, in short, are forbidden even to be afraid, so it is essential that football gets back on track to finish the championship. An absurd approach, so much so that I wondered with even more perplexity how it would be appropriate, in Italy, to restart the championships. In the case of football, moralistic categories are often used and it easily expires in an envious lynching against the so-called game of twenty-two overpaid guys chasing a ball. But we cannot be hypocrites: it is one of the most important economic segments of the country, the sixth, perhaps the seventh in importance. It is a football industry that has a strong impact on our GDP. The numbers speak for themselves: five billion euros of turnover, 89,000 employees and tax revenues for the State equal to 1.7 billion euros. If we calculate the induced, those who eat directly with football, let's not forget that football in Italy is the locomotive that drives the whole world of sport that is suffering in particular these months of forced stop. Therefore, to think of a light heart that this majestic world can stop is practically impossible, but sport - and football in our country is the king among sports for its follow-up - is above all a forge of passions, emotions, human relationships that also have an extraordinary impact on our daily lives. I bring my personal experience and you will understand me: I come from a city, Benevento, whose football team - run by a healthy, healthy society and coached by Pippo Inzaghi - was, until it had to stop the Serie B championship in which it plays, first in the standings, with a strong detachment from the second. No day goes by, so - you will understand - that it is not stopped by citizens or that it does not receive e-mails or messages in which I am asked what the fate of our beloved Giallorossi team will be. Here, on the industrial side, but above all on the passionate side of this whole affair we cannot fail to take into account. On the other hand, however, we must keep our feet firmly anchored on the ground: we are in the middle of something that has never happened in the last hundred years, a pandemic that has cost more than 30,000 deaths in Italy alone; let's remember it every now and then, when we talk about everything that is happening around us: 30,000 deaths. It would be stupid just to think that in the name of the god money you can go on with nonchalance and close the championship. This government has so far approached the issue in the only way possible, placing the safety of athletes and all those involved in the work in the first place of its political action. Minister Spadafora, I believe, preaches prudence not because he is moved by a sadistic approach, as I have even heard, towards the golden world of football, but because he is aware that one cannot joke with the health of those who will have to go back to training. In fact, many cases show us, the players themselves, as was also mentioned in the interventions that preceded me, have multiple fears and correct fears. I think it's physiological and human. The Scientific and Technical Committee has given us clear guidelines, which must be respected to the letter if we really want to make this attempt and hope, in a month, to review the games on television. We know that it is impossible to keep players in armored retreats from here until August, so the controls, the prophylaxis, the measures to be put in the field will have to be very strict, because it takes little to turn a locker room into a potential outbreak, has already happened. Maximum rigour, therefore, towards those who scorn, but above all it must be stopped. The contribution of all actors in the field will be crucial in this respect. We know what the presidents of the A-society will want, and they will already have to do without a lot of money from the collections and in the event of a final farewell to the championship, which I do not hope of course, they risk seeing even those of television rights disappear. Clear pacts and long friendship, however: if societies really want to restart, they must give 120 percent on the security and respect of protocols, with the maximum help of the League football, as well as of the federation that the tournament organizes it. To these last subjects we allow ourselves to give advice: the hope of all of us is that we can start again, but no therapeutic aggression. If we realize that it is impossible to continue at the beginning of June, we must have a plan B to allow professional football to start again in the autumn and follow without recalcitrantly the indications that you, Minister, are sure you will be able to give. The contribution and support of the government and the 5 Star Movimento to our football will always be there, the football is a beautiful show, the most loved by Italians by excellence. On the one hand, we want him to resume today, but we also want him to survive tomorrow. Especially this: it must survive healthy and possibly healthy calcium. I have focused on football, Minister, but I would like to thank you for your commitment to the basic sport that you have so far carried out and for the constant work that your Ministry is putting into the service of the whole world of sport. The protection of the athletes, the disabled, all the personnel involved remains the polar star to be followed in view of each plan of restart. We are pleased to share this fundamental principle with you, because health protection is the strongest way to truly demonstrate that we love and respect the sports community and not only the entire country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u85	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u86	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00227 (text 3), tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, and 1-00231, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on gender equality and support for working women. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the authors presented the motions and the debate took place. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, before expressing on behalf of the Government the opinion on the two motions in question, allow me to express my deep gratitude for the debate that has taken place in this House and for the will of the senators and senators to put this issue to the attention of this institution and of the whole country. I think it is important to remember on this occasion the work done by women who represented Italy's resistance during the months of pandemics. In these classrooms we have repeatedly thanked the heroics of doctors, nurses and health workers; a few times we paused to remember that 70 percent of this staff was a woman. Italy's resistance in recent months has mainly had the face of women. Exactly sixty years ago a revolutionary sentence of the Constitutional Court allowed women to take a step forward, a leap forward in their rights. That battle had the name and tenacity of a young woman, Rosa Oliva, who wanted to become prefect. I think today the country is called to a new leap. There are times when we have to decide which way to go into history, and this is one of those moments. Italy from the resistance will be able to leave only if able to put in field new instruments and not old schemes. The new instruments must have the face and active participation of women, particularly in the world of work and institutions. We are faced with a challenge that must certainly promote the presence of women, but we are also faced with a challenge in removing all the obstacles that actually prevent it. That is why I believe that the debate that took place in this House is important: the same tenacity as sixty years ago is present today not only in the women of this institution, but throughout the country. We are ready, the country is ready: now only the responsibility to give life to our tenacity awaits us. 13.07) (Following BONETTI, Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family). As regards the Government's opinion on the two motions, the opinion is in favour of motion 227, at the first signature of Senator Conzatti, but conditional on the rewording of paragraph 11 of the premise and the commitments referred to in paragraphs 4, 6, 13 and 16). As regards the premise, paragraph 11 calls for the deletion of the words "generative life" to be deleted. As regards commitments, the opinion is in favour of commitment 4, subject to the following rewording: "to protect care work and therefore the figure of the caregiver family, which is often covered by women through the recognition of its value for society and to assess the appropriateness of providing for and proposing a system of tax rewards in order to allow the deduction of the costs incurred for care work." As regards commitment 6), the following rewording is called for: "to strengthen and implement measures to overcome discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity in the workplace and professional context for lesbian and transgender women, as well as measures to support the employment integration of women who are victims of abuse and violence, women who are victims of trafficking and victims of prostitution." The following reformulation of commitment 13 is also called for: Finally, the reformulation of the first lines of commitment 16) is called for as follows: "To establish the institutional observatory at the Department for Equal Opportunities of the Presidency of the Council for Impact Assessment" and then to follow. With regard to motion 231, first signed by Senator Stefani, the Government's opinion is contrary, also in view of the overcoming of a commitment, remembering that the President of the Council of Ministers yesterday integrated the committee of experts of his appointment with five women and, similarly, on his recommendation, the head of civil protection has integrated the Technical and Scientific Committee with six female figures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u88	Senator Conzatti, do you accept the rewordings proposed by the government? CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Yes, Mr President, we accept the proposed rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u91	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we said everything yesterday, in general debate, about why it is so important for our country to have a rebalancing in the labour market, in welfare, in freedom and therefore also in mutual respect. We have said this loudly with our motion, the drafting of which has been challenging, in its third rewording, but which has seen the cohesion of the whole majority and also the support of Senator Bonino. It is therefore a great result and a great message to the country. Of course we invite all the women and all the men who share our motion to support it, because we believe it to be positive for the country. We discussed everything yesterday. We have - for example - talked about the Treaties, explaining the whole history that has led to the value of equality. We talked about doctrine, about how sociologists and economists attach importance to the new vision of economy and society. We have analysed the data, over and over again: those of the World Economic Forum, at international level, those of the European Union for the comparison of gender gap performance between Member States and, at national level, we have analysed data from Istat and the Bank of Italy. So all men and women are perfectly aware of the value of this choice. This is a logical and obvious choice, and yet - Mr President and colleagues - this does not happen. The whole theory is in favour, as are our ideal attitude and our regulatory system, but this does not happen. It has not happened in particular in the last two months, in which women have lost their jobs and have been deprived of certain fundamental freedoms, such as those of undertaking and being able to ask for help if they are in difficulty. Everything happened in general silence, as if the presence of women were a kind concession and as if that presence were not so indispensable, so much so as to be considered expendable. Only the action of women - including some men, indeed, but above all women - in society and in Parliament has led to an ethical debate on a short and obvious choice. This is paradoxical. The vision of the House during the debate today and yesterday makes this decision even more paradoxical, this choice, because once again we are divided between those who ignore and want to ignore the issue and those who, with courage and effectiveness, carry it forward. In preparing this speech, it seemed important to me to try to understand why we are like this and why, when we discuss issues of the opinion, the House is emptying itself of the male component and the debate is not considered as a priority as the debates on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the Recovery fund or the net balance to be financed from the budget. Yet, we are talking about the economic impact on our country, women in the world of work, women in Italy working in less than 50% of cases, with a gap of 16% compared to European women and an gap of 18% compared to Italian men. So we're talking about a choice that would involve 2 million women, if brought to the regime. We could generate and do without taking a lot of resources to debt, if we put our country in a position to equip itself with a modern, current and even just system in rights. And yet no: the show is what I described to you. I have therefore allowed myself to send a message to men, through you, Mr President: to deal with women's rights and to deal with women in the world of work does not mean to hate men. Therefore, it is not necessary for men to flee from this Chamber, frightened, in the hope of escaping some criticism, or for most of them to do so. It is not necessary: we can easily discuss it, talk about it and listen to it. Talking about this theme is in fact a bit like looking in the mirror and seeing the reflection of your mother, your daughter, your partner and knowing that what you feel, what you wish for them, that they are free to choose, to realize their dreams and to be respected, happens only if everyone is concerned with the rights of women. In Italy for too long we have had a kind attitude, of affectionate brotherhood and fatherhood, but also sometimes of affectionate paternalism, and all this has meant that in many people the awareness of being able to take care of women, wishing the best for them, but this does not happen. It did not happen before and even less will happen in today's world. We are in a globalized world, a world that overwhelms, and therefore the choices, if unjust at the level of the system, will also fall on the people you care about and the women you care about most and for whom you wish the best. So, we expect to be able to fight together to change. However, it is necessary to trigger a generative conflict, therefore a positive conflict, with customs, commonplaces and the presuppositions that are no longer there and above all there are no more useful. It is also a simple generative conflict to overcome, because it is enough to read the international and European treaties; it is enough to read our beautiful Constitution; it is enough to read the many relevant laws, some of which are also adopted in this Parliament, to find the instructions for use. Just read one of these texts to find the read key to apply. The node is here: we must all realize that we must go from the ideal phase, in which everything is written and we must not add a comma, to the operational phase. We have to put it into practice. Look, it's not difficult, it's a bit like mounting an IKEA cabinet: instructions, a minimum concentration and follow the directions. It's really very simple. I'm sorry to have to trivialize like this, but I'm just doing it because this doesn't happen. It doesn't happen because we have been talking, using international terminology, about g ender gap, empowerment and diversity for decades and you don't listen to us. We don't listen and we don't understand each other. It has been years in Italy that have denounced the very low female employment, that women at the top of participating and publicly quoted companies only 6%, that over 30% of women in Italy have a part-time contract, compared to 8% of men, and that 13% of women have a term contract, which is now in danger of losing in this crisis. We keep telling each other things, but we do not understand each other and it seems that all this is absolutely not about women, wives, companions, daughters and mothers to whom you wish the best. Then Italy really needs a change of pace from this point of view. We really need energy, and to do that, you need to get involved. Think of what would happen if today you had to choose whether to continue the work that you are doing, that you have built with great commitment, that allows you to be seated here and to have an income to support your family, or to give up because no one cares for your children or your parents. And there is no alternative: you have to do it and there is also someone who says that everything is fine, because no one can do it better than you. Or think how you would feel if you had a job that you do well, with merit, ensuring results, but you earned less than your colleague and that lower income did not allow you to buy a home to live away from that home where you return every night and where there is someone beating you. Then we need a little empathy, a little concentration on a subject that really affects all of us. Here we have to say something very clear: for a long time, for many millennia, there has been a normal male thinking prevalent in men and also unfortunately in some women and continues to resist in some women. Now Italy needs to imagine, of intuition, of new solutions: these are characteristics that that prevailing male thought has proved not to have in millennia. So, if you care about Italy and the fact that this country comes out of the ford, this is the number one problem to solve, with courage and determination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u94	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, Minister - I would like to say representatives of the Government, but I must say Minister - ladies and gentlemen, gender equality and support for working women is a perennial subject that comes up again and generates this debate around two motions, because - we have to contextualize - there are new critical issues, namely female work in the so-called phase 2 and the creation of bodies for the restart in which women have been underrepresented. Two motions have been tabled: one by a majority - in the House with a text 3 which calls for further commitments to its Government - and one by the minority, on which I would like to thank my colleagues from Forza Italia and the League for their work in communities of intent. Both motions arise from a common fear, a deep need and the desire to face the concrete risk of female segregation; they arise from the threat, therefore, of a social and working backwardness of women, because the lockdown and phase 2, connected to the chronic lack of an adequate welfare, can create a short circuit and bring us back to the fifties, that is, men at work and women at home. In order to avoid this, Brothers of Italy proposed a structured programme of interventions to support families, working women and for the reorganization of schools, with the resumption of school activity until July with double classes for primary and lower secondary schools; the strengthening of the babysitter bonus for the zero-six-year-old; the extension of parental leave paid up to 80% and other measures. The consequences of the emergency resulting from the Covid-19 fall on the families and, with the return to the work of phase 2 and the schools closed, bounces back the ancient question of reconciling the times of life and work and the question of sharing the work of care. But there are also new issues, such as travel, ways of teleworking and smart working, the school reorganization I mentioned and distance learning for our children. On new issues the government has not demonstrated a political vision. He has foreseen some sector interventions - I would say segment ones - but he has not offered a system plan, therefore a vision, in a country in which women's employment does not reach 50% and is below the European average, and in which, even in those areas where women's work is strong, there is a gap in apical and top positions, as there is a wage differential, with equal work done, in the accessory part of the pay envelope, that of benefits and overtime. This shows that the labour market has not yet absorbed free maternity choices and should not be irreconcilable with employment commitments. Meanwhile, the Istat in the last relationship between work and family confirms that in Italy one in ten women cannot work to care for children; 11 percent of women with at least one child have never worked, to take care of them; and - impressive figure - 27 percent of women leave work after the birth of the first or second child, however increasingly rare (we live in fact in the middle of the demographic autumn). It is clear that immediate solutions to ancient problems are not being asked of the government, but answers to new emergencies and new material and intangible poverty are being asked. It is also asked not to create, as it has done - and it seems that you have forgotten - new forms of gender inequality. I am referring to the bodies I am going to talk about. I come to the other vexed question, the one concerning the task forces, of which we contest in a priority way both the method and the merit and therefore we are not animated by a quantum demand from a pink quota. In the method we have to find the uncontrolled and arbitrary proliferation of task forces and technical committees imposed on the country bypassing Parliament, as well as their legally dubious nature, so much so that we have even discussed what powers they should have. No one knows exactly how many components are involved to date, what the criteria of choice are, how much they cost. So, if the bearing structure is 450 units but it is estimated that it is even 1,000, we would say that we expect only one hundred, of which we know the identity, competent men and women. This would solve a lot of problems, otherwise we should set up a task force to coordinate the task forces, so many of them you have done. On the substance, I would ask you to pay attention to this passage, which is not just about women. In fact, in the merit, the task forces have lack of important professional profiles, for example pedagogists, psychologists, experts of the learning, experts of logistics and transports (a strategic field for the restart). Moreover, the lack of direct involvement of the business world has been noted - and this is no small thing. Then to remedy Colao heard in a conference call (from London of course) ten of the major representatives of the national companies, for three minutes each: three minutes each for Fincantieri, Marelli, Ferretti, ArcelorMittal Italy, Pirelli and I could continue up to ten. He consulted them because they are not members of the task forces, and they are not sitting next to the auditors, accountants, businessmen. Then there is the knot that I think is forgotten, but that, at the beginning, you have placed gender under-representation, which, moreover, has triggered a choral reaction in the country. The first scientists, the academics, the researchers rightly wrote in their appeal: in the front line against the Covid, but absent in the task forces. Then there was also the reaction of entrepreneurs, citizens, civil society, with the social campaign #Datecivo, whose echo came to the BBC and from there to the attention of a United Nations agency, which in a tweet summarized: Italian women call for a stronger role in the country's response to the coronavirus epidemic and call for inclusion. Looks like a 1950s title. This inclusion must have been made yesterday, because it is under this pressure - I stress - that the President of the Council has discovered the competences and merits of the other half of the sky and has added - hence the number - 11 women, five in the government task force and six in the technical and scientific committee. I guess it was a big hit for Borrelli, who said he hadn't identified women with significant positions, otherwise we would have found them on the Technical and Scientific Committee. A hard blow for him, but also for those who support the government team and have behind them a history of equal claims (I remember 50-50). Therefore, moving from that principle to this of the dropper that they are using, I understand the discomfort and allow myself to say that motions are not enough to the many questions. We had remained on the concept of fair representation of men and women as a constitutional principle and gender balance not as a concession by pulling the jacket, but as a matter of exercising democracy and the effectiveness of democratic systems; vice versa we would have a vulnus and a deficit of democracy. You do it. The question is not numerical, but of merit - I call it to your attention - of competences and also - of course - of a gender perspective, because the node is that we must start the country's restart and act therefore in a form of resilience that understands and overcomes survival and simple resistance. Resilience is a category of psychology, it is the inner capacity for positive reaction to traumatic events or natural disasters, and always in reconstruction scenarios, even in post-conflict scenarios, there is a female protagonism in reconstruction. Then resilience is a woman. No revolution can be made without women - as the futurists also recalled - and there is a fundamental and strategic goal for restarting. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Don't I have a minute? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, please continue your speech. RAUTI (FdI). I will skip a few passages, ladies and gentlemen, and I say to you that this is not just a question of women: it is much more and you will understand the way in which I say it, I belong to a party that has a woman leader and I believe that we have no burden of proof on this. Today, as a center-right coalition, we are putting to the attention of this Assembly and the country, in the name of women, an issue that concerns families and the country, an issue for which women certainly risk paying the highest existential cost. I therefore strongly support our vote on the motion that we have tabled, while our vote will be against the majority motion. We are disappointed and it is truly a surprise that the Government has rejected our motion. The majority motion will therefore be adopted. But then, colleagues of the majority, be consistent to the full and forcefully remind the government that it has forgotten scientists and experts. Now the Minister recalled that 70% of the social and health personnel are women: you should tell your government, since in the task forces these women are not there. Also remind the Government that the reconstruction of the country must be a shared project of women and men, of majority and opposition, and that post-coronavirus Italy is not a reality for ads, but live flesh and offense. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u97	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I must say that I am sorry that, even on an occasion which I think is important such as the presentation and discussion of the motions before us - not so much has been done to do so - we have not found a point forward of sharing. I am convinced, in fact, that the sharing of women, of Members of Parliament, must obviously not only be a rhetorical fact to be used every time we talk about women, but would give much more strength to parliamentary action, because it is needed at this time. I say this very clearly: the current emergency is sharpening even more the problems and issues we had, since we did not come from Paradise. Unfortunately, we had a figure, and this applies both to gender gap and to the more general issue of inequality. Over the years we have seen more and more inequalities in our country and unfortunately also on a global level, and unfortunately, despite the great results that women and women's movement have achieved, we continue to have in Italy some disturbing data regarding - for example - the world of work. The famous crystal roof obviously we continue to have it there: it stands there, oppresses us and, above all, it causes a greenhouse effect that damages not only women, but the same possibility for our country of a real development and a real leap forward. This is not just about the principle of equality. There is the fact that our country in recent years, while making - always with difficulty, I repeat - steps forward, has not managed to bridge the gap: we think only of the employment difference between North and South as regards women. This is a serious and enormous damage to the country and its future. In this emergency the situations of difficulty and inequality have increased even more; in recent weeks we have seen it in a dramatic and evident way. The burden of the crisis is falling heavily on women. In this crisis we are not all the same, once again, but there are those who carry a greater weight and those who carry a lesser one; and women have the greater weight. Today the Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalization was present in the Chamber and we all said how beautiful innovation is and how beautiful smart working is. But do you realize what smart working means to women in recent weeks? It means that they never take off, in the sense that they work and take care of the family at the same time; maybe they also have to take care of the parents - I don't know how - and they have to do the fatal jumps to do the work of care, because this is always the responsibility of women. In the current crisis we have not all entered the same and we risk getting out of it even less equal, because the weight is falling heavily on women. I'm very clear that I don't like the task force mode. I am very fond of the role of Parliament. I cannot say that I am used to it, because, unfortunately, in recent times this habit has been taken away from me, quite enough. I always love to say that I tend to be a little conservative: we are in a parliamentary democracy and I think Parliament is the pivot of it. So, I'm very clear that I've never really liked the task forces, which I've frankly lost track of. Having said that, it is clear that there has been a problem there and this has rightly been weighed down. There we have had the proven proof that, especially in the health world, we are now witnessing a very strong numerical presence of women, and the same happens in the world of research. The problem is that they're not apical, because there's a crystal roof. It is difficult to find women who hold executive roles, because they have to do precarious researchers at 800 euros and then hope to join some "baron" to see if they can continue to have some other funding. [[Applause]] This is our life, from morning to evening; that is the problem and that is the point. The important thing, for the motion and for the work they do here, is that we must recognize the value and competence of women. If competitions could also be held in Parliament, there would be a lot more women, but there are still more women because we have set at least non-discriminatory stakes. If we could have free and open competitions everywhere, we would have a greater presence of women in all the apical functions and would have completely reversed the situation. For example, look at what happened in the judiciary: why has there been such a strong surge of female presence? Through the selection mechanism, the value and competence of women were recognised, which were objective. All the more reason we put the matter; we didn't talk about secondary things. What we care about - and I know that the Minister not only cares about this aspect, but considers it the most important issue and his mission within the government - is the fact that, even more so in this emergency, measures must be put in place that do not only concern the emergency. It's not just about helping women, like the babysitter bonus. We need to put in place a strategic plan for women's work and the enhancement of women's skills, because it serves our country. This country cannot make it without the value and competence of women: it is the fundamental point. Those who are used to doing 300 jobs together, at the same time, need this: they need such energy and intelligence. The measures contained in the motion that we have proposed - I would like to thank all the senators, starting with my colleague, Mr Conzatti, who also coordinated us - are all very strict and important commitments. I repeat - look at them and reread them one by one - that not only concern the emergency, but they try to have a broader look because the fundamental issue is the extraordinary and strategic plan for women. How many times have we discussed the issue of caregivers in this House? Can we be a country that has the highest rate of elderly people and witness what happened to our grandparents and parents with this emergency? We are the country that is the highest and oldest average age together with Japan - I think that perhaps we will be almost the same soon - and, even in this case, it always and only affects women. If there's a female daughter, that's fine. It is still so, but we cannot afford such a level of backwardness and not only for women, but also because it is an investment to make this blessed country grow. For these reasons, we are convinced not only that we are voting on the motion, but that we have also started working very hard together, taking advantage of the current emergency, to push the government to take a really big step forward. Someone said that in war they worked and rebuilt women and then tried not to give them the right to vote when men returned from the battlefields. After the emergency, we won't start again. Look, this time the same thing can't happen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u100	VALENT (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to start by saying that I believe that little has been done in this House in these hours and that I believe that it should be stressed. A common effort was not taken for granted; it was not for granted to come to a joint motion of the entire majority. These are difficult hours for everyone, and I believe that this has certainly been a point in favour of the women of the majority. I thank Senator Conzatti and all the senators who have helped to write parts of this motion, to identify parts of the policies that we will be called to put on the field. I believe that this must of course be recognised. I regret that it has not been possible, on the other hand, to build a united motion with the opposition forces, but I also feel it is my duty to respect an absolutely legitimate choice of not wanting to agree to the writing of a united motion. I believe that this will obviously not prejudice further common steps and paths. I would like to start from a point of view which has been referred to by many and which I would like to make my own. We have seen women as protagonists in phase 1 of this epidemic. We all remember the famous Spallanzani researchers. We all rushed to appreciate them and to see the condition of precariousness in which those researchers exercised their role. Similarly, we noticed and saw what agile work, smart working, meant for women in phase 1. We also saw nurses and matrons on the front line in the CPR. We have seen in the flesh - I agree with what Senator Rauti said - the resistant and resilient women. We have seen them; they have been there witnessing a force, but above all the will and ability to never back down when the future of the country is at stake. So many historical references have been made; I ask that I be granted one. For the recent anniversary of April 25th, in which the feast of Liberation is celebrated, many pages of that history have been remembered. Partisan strikers have been protagonists in the struggle of liberation and in the struggle of resistance. Yet, immediately afterwards, they were relegated again to the role of mothers and wives, forgetting their contribution as an authoritative, important and courageous political subject who had put himself at stake alongside the country and men. [[Applause.]] Here, today we risk repeating exactly the same page: today women, out of phase 1, risk seeing themselves again relegated to roles of mothers and wives, giving up autonomy and freedom. I would like to point out, as President of the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide, that giving up autonomy and freedom means entering into circuits of violence or, at least, leaving it with much more difficulty. So let us try to be consistent. Let us try to remind her of these words; to remember that the autonomy and freedom of women means above all social justice: a duty we have towards women but also to build the foundations of a fairer and fairer society. I say, however - and we have said it in many and I believe it is the deepest meaning of this motion - that autonomy and freedom of women also means a stronger, healthier, more competitive country. If we try today to deal with the issue of reconstruction we can only start there. Returning to that historical passage, however, at that stage some women managed to enter the constituent Assembly, starting a path of participation in the institutions of the Republic, a stage that I would like to recall today was the appointment in 1976 of the first woman to the post of Minister, Tina Anselmi, the one who allowed us, just today, at this stage, to have a national health system that not only envied the world, but that - I think I can say it with serenity - has allowed to save the life of many men and many women, without any distinction. [[Applause.]] The long thought of women. The long thought of looking beyond: not at contingency, but at what was to be the country that was to be rebuilt together. For this reason, I would like to say, disagreeing with Senator Rauti, that I would have expected words of courageous appreciation also from the opposition forces. It's true, the government could've gotten there sooner, there's no doubt. We said so, and we didn't sneak away. The government could and had to get there first to include women in the task forces, but it is not by all to correct in the course of work and the best is enemy of the good. The best is the enemy of good! [[Applause]] It counts that today, within those task forces, there are authoritative, competent women and that first of all they are the best response to all those who have said that there were no skills around; above all, however, they are those who, in an autonomous and authoritative way, will give a technical contribution (I agree in this with Senator De Petris) in support of politics. This will be called to make the most right priority choices, but with the support of a scientific-technical thought and construction that will be, however, blackened by female thinking and that - let me say this - I call feminist. Today, in fact, it is necessary. And why is it necessary and so is it precious today? For a simple reason: never as at this time, even for an imposing effort that we are asking the country in terms of economic resources and deficits, we needed important injections of liquidity. We are making them; they are an extraordinary step, an opportunity that we could call historical to redefine patterns of consumption, development and growth and to rebuild another asset. This, then, is the time when risks must be avoided but opportunities must also be seized. And the only real opportunity we have is to rewrite new patterns of consumption, growth and development. In this, women are ahead. For years they have been developing thought and the theory of care: people, the environment, relationships and spaces. It is the development of women, to whom we must ask, in the interests of the country, not in the interests of women, for a valuable, authoritative and irreplaceable contribution. Then we really come to the reasons, to what we try to ask the government, but also to all of us and to a whole society, and to what we can do at this time. Why do women, once again, risk always paying the highest price of the crisis, as in so many crises that we have behind us? History teaches us and tells us many historical passages of this type. Today women are the ones who have the most precarious, part-time, underpaid work: in a couple, if you have to choose, it will definitely take a step back the woman, for the benefit and convenience of the family; because women are employed in the sectors strategically most at risk. It is a question of communication, tourism, services in general and trade: it is women who are employed in these sectors. And it is women who will struggle to make agile work compatible, if we do not regulate it with the work of family and domestic care. Here are the women who are really at risk of leaving the world of work; let us remind them of the figures: only half of the female population in employment, with a difference to men of almost 20%. Everyone has told us, and the most important national and international economic observers have repeated it for years, that putting more women in the production and economic paths would provide Italy with a fundamental lever for growth and redemption. I say then: let's all look for this lever together at this moment, for Italy that says it needs a shot forward. Let's do this by reducing the gaps, remembering that gaps and inequalities - first of all gender - are not only social injustice but are the biggest obstacle, the biggest hand hold-up on the growth and development of a country. Let us take advantage of it to return to growth and do it in a fairer, fairer and, as I said before, more competitive way. Here are the commitments of the motion that we have written together with many colleagues. We need a real plan for women's employment, capable of reversing the sense of conciliation, which is now made only on women's shoulders. We demand sharing of family responsibilities. 67 percent of the burden of family work is on women's shoulders. We ask the men to be from this game with us. It's nice to be able to take care of your family, it's a wealth for everyone: let's do it together. We raise our children together, we recognize the social value of motherhood. Recognizing the social value of motherhood means that society as a whole takes charge of it, it means recognizing that still too often a woman, when she brings a child into the world, comes out of the productive circuits. It would therefore be necessary to recognize domestic work, regularise colf and caregivers, a smart working agile but disciplined, the right to disconnect, the recovery of the digital divide, an arrangement of incentives and an observatory, as the Minister also said, that knows how to distinguish the impact that the policies we put in the field have for men and women. I should like to close with a remembrance of what the Minister said: sixty years ago an important sentence was issued which deleted a taboo. Allow me, I do not despise a category to which we are asking instead for an alliance, but only a few years earlier - I remind all of us - President Giovanni Leone, in a debate of the constituent Assembly, said that women cannot enter the judiciary because in some days of the month they do not have the opportunity to have the serenity and balance necessary to issue sentences. A few years later, the Constitutional Court intervened by applying and recalling Article 3 of the Constitution (as beautiful as it may be) exactly - and not by making a simple reference as the applicant's lawyer wished. To those women, to Rosa Oliva but to all the women who have waged so many battles in recent years, we owe answers. There are conditions today to really change things for the better. It is not a courtesy or a justice that we give to women. It is a courtesy, if we really want to call it that, but I would say that it is above all an extraordinary occasion that we make to the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u103	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the fact that we are still here discussing these motions means that the issue of women has not yet been resolved and that, therefore, on the cultural phenomenon that still sees women in a sort of second row, there has been no great progress since Erica Jong's books. Also to mention books that will surely be known to some of the people present in the Chamber, if the book "From the part of the girls" is still up to date, it means that probably the battles that have been waged for equal access to any office, commitment and work have probably not yet won. Already today we see that in decision-making or in business leadership, women are not gaining great positions. There are certainly exceptions, but already the fact that we call them exceptions means that there is a problem. In fact, the problem is not just to get to the top, it is not important to have the pride of being perhaps the CEO of a multinational company or to have who knows what political positions. Among the many problems that have also been highlighted in the course of the debate, and which I would like to stress here, given that the issue has not been touched on, is that of unequal pay, which, unfortunately, neither the rules, rules and tariffs can lead to fairness. Today there is a difference in pay, compensation and income. I would like to give an example, which arises a bit from the profession that I myself exercise: women lawyers, who in 1997 were 26,000 and over a decade have reached 115,000, represent 47.8 percent of the members in the books. However, the data collected by the forensic fund says that in 2017 the average income of women lawyers is 23,000 euros, compared to 52,000 euros of fellow men. We do not see what the difference in performance is; this is an disparity. This is just an example of how women have a different economic and contractual strength. Work is a great element of dignity, but what the dignity of work does, in the end, is also income. There is a problem in entering the labour market itself for women, as well as a huge problem is the re-entry of women after leaving the labour market. To date, our country has an employment rate of 57 percent of mothers between twenty-five and fifty-four years (those caring for young children or relatives not self-sufficient), compared to a rate of 89.3 percent of fathers. In the current context of this health emergency, in which we are facing a very heavy burden, the female employment scenario will become even more serious when there is a resumption of productive activity, which could lead to closures and layoffs and thus imply the problem of finding a new job. For women this is a further problem, it is also a greater burden in some ways. Ours, therefore, is unfortunately a country today very far from reaching the levels if not of a full, of a sufficient female occupation and the risk for the future is that this scenario of the crisis even worsens the conditions. Well, the evidence of attention to women's employment and the recognition of women and equal opportunities is the choices made by this Government for appointments within these famous task forces (we always use English terms, but we should be Italian and call them by their name), that is, committees made up of technicians who have to deal with the various issues of the health emergency. Today we are talking about women in these motions as if we were talking only and exclusively about the situation of women, but I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that at the beginning we wanted to talk about motions concerning gender equality within these committees. Allow me an inscription. Today we have almost 18 committees; the help of the experts is essential, especially in the face of a crisis like today, but it becomes excessive to resort to these committees because the impression we have is that we have a policy that is fundamentally commissary. We already have a Parliament that has been exonerated in its powers and prerogatives of decision (we know that it is useless for us to hide it, there has been an institutional and constitutional crisis in the hierarchy of sources), and today we also have the problem that decisions are essentially delegated to these committees which are also without representativeness. To find ourselves, therefore, having deliberations of decisions that come from bodies that exonerate the same policy means really that we are in a state that if it is not at odds, it is certainly wavering in its foundations. It was said that it was upset, we had decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that almost exceed the constitutional rules, there was a wide internal debate among the constitutionalists. In fact, today the Constitution becomes almost just a sort of benchmark and not the essential foundation of our system. With regard to these committees, we have great doubts, not only about numbers and methods, but also about the same rules of engagement. It is not clear what the criteria for choosing people are. Let's remember that even if there was no pay, even if there was no compensation, anyway being part of these committees is an honor that increases and jewelates the same curricula. When you increase that value even of prestige, of course you also give an advantage that can be consequent. What we have highlighted, however, is the unacceptable gender inequality within these bodies, the lack of consideration of what the role of women is. Having learned yesterday during the discussion that President Conte appointed five women as additional members of these committees, it seems to me only a warm cloth, a piece that only confirms that the Government was in default and that perhaps the Count himself has amended himself. We are therefore faced with this motion today. Sorry to have to talk about it because we think that to date, in 2020, the situation of women should not be the subject of commitments to the government in the face of some obvious shortcomings, but equality should now be a de facto situation; what instead, in fact, is not seen. We have to go beyond what are sometimes even our rhetorics and indications on how important women must be, what they should do, what their role in society should be, always using conditional. Properly, however, these should be commitments that must be carried out. I remember the intervention of Senator Fedeli, who said that tomorrow we will see whether these commitments will be implemented, if they will be carried out. We will check: very correct, because the commitment of a motion becomes flatus voices if it does not become an amendment, a rule of law, something factual. However, we have concerns about these motions when we examine them. We have made a motion and I thank the colleagues of Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia for the choral work we have done together, which has been shared in every step of his life. However, we are really struggling today to vote in favour of a motion if we do not distinguish the parties. There are commitments and premises on which, even if we are perplexed, we cannot vote against them. Today, however, we take note of a reformulation of the Government, aimed at suppressing the definition of life-generating when it comes to a woman; but when a woman makes a child she is a life-generating, I don't know what else to call her. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's a question of terminology: we're calling it a cat. But looking at the other commitments too, if we want to make a motion against discrimination, at a time when a commitment is foreseen to strengthen and implement measures to overcome discrimination on sexual orientation or gender identity for lesbian and transgender women, why don't we expect the same commitment for transgender and homosexual men? [[Applause]] We're doing discrimination to defend an operation that should be anti-discrimination. This is the problem that really puts us in a difficult position to vote in favour of Senator Conzatti's first-signed motion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u106	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions we discussed yesterday are part of a context which I believe should have been taken for granted. In the Covid-19 emergency, which called for a prompt and massive response from health systems to deal with the large number of virus-positive patients with severe respiratory problems, it emerged from the outset that our country would leave someone behind. The OECD, regarding the effects of the pandemic on the female component of the population, used military language to signal the role of women in the fight against the Covid-19, writing in a post on Instagram that could be the first war never fought in which the majority in the front line is composed of women. In fact, women are two thirds of the workforce employed in world health: counting 104 countries for which data are available, about 85% of nurses and midwives are women, constituting an overwhelming majority of workers in the care areas, who are now particularly exposed to the risk of infection at the workplace. In our country we rejoiced and praised the doctors who, first, at the Spallanzani Institute had isolated the virus and proudly published on our bulletin boards the picture of the nurse who, exhausted by fatigue, tried to rest a bit on the keyboard of the personal computer. But if we are here today to discuss the motions under discussion, it means that the government had forgotten once again to win the competence. [[Applause]] , since, in these famous pletoric task forces, he had forgotten the very existence of women. I found frankly pathetic yesterday's announcement of Palazzo Chigi to integrate the task force of Colao [[Applause]] , which gives us its valuable advice from London - better this way, at least we will not pay him the travel expenses and, indeed, we will then clarify the compensation of these experts - with women to whom I wish them my best work. I imagine the surprise of Borrelli, head of Civil Protection, who until yesterday stated that there are no women on the technical-scientific committee because no such important office is occupied by a woman, discovering that she will have the collaboration - amazement and wonder! - women holding university chairs, federation presidents, complex unit guidelines and so on. I wonder: are there not prominent personalities in Parliament, such as the life-long senator Elena Cattaneo, a world-famous researcher? Aren't there any prominent professionals who could've been involved? No, otherwise it would not have been possible to expel Parliament in fact. [[Applause]] , which perhaps might even have known the "state secrets" about the task force's work. I would therefore have preferred women so important for their roles not to be involved in this task force, because if the results of their work are what we see, out of the dramatic reality that the country is experiencing, it would have been better for us women to stay out of it. Was it the task force who suggested to INAIL the distance of 5 meters between the umbrellas? We have a distance of 1 meter to the supermarket, on the bus and on the metro. [[Applause]] , maybe 2 meters when you run and 5 meters between the umbrellas? [[Applause]] But does this government want the death of those who work in their own right, VAT matches, restaurateurs, seafarers and entrepreneurs? Probably yes, he would want them all with citizenship income [[Applause]] , much easier to manage, and with closed businesses, so they don't talk. However, if the Covid pandemic has made evident, in a clear way, the contradictions of a system sick of bureaucracy, in the near future, indeed from today (although, unfortunately, the watchword of this Government is "do" and not "do", we need welfare policies capable of giving centrality to work, promoting gender equity. This emergency can represent a fundamental watershed and Italy can use it as an experience. There are two roads: will we accentuate the limits that existed before or will we overcome them? The emergency exit can and must be designed. Certainly the Covid-19 was not expected nor predictable, but the restart yes, even if of programming, on this and on other topics, in the Government there is no trace and it is that that they reproach the categories to a deaf or unable Government. [[Applause]] Therefore, the re-evaluation of the role of women, at this stage, must be something that the country cannot do without. We have found that the groups most at risk during lockdown have been represented by those who do not have an employee contract, especially by self-employed workers, with a small business in their own hands. For them the impact of the closure was double, with the drop in income and the lack of adequate tools to manage families and children. The data highlighted in Italy are worrying. In Italy, the female employment rate is the lowest in Europe, yet women are more educated than men and account for 60% of graduates. In practice, only half of Italian women work and workers are employed more in the less paid sectors, but they are also among the most important professions for the virus: doctors and nurses. In addition, in Italian families, women are responsible for the majority of domestic work and care work. But here, between student turnout, home-school alternation and distance training, Italian mothers will have to manage a particularly complex everyday life. [[Applause]] Smart working, rediscovered in this period, could certainly be a help, but here too emerges a paradox, because it is the less qualified workers who should necessarily go to the premises to work and at the same time care for their children. But do you really think that clerks, nurses, baristas, traders and employees can do smart working from home? Already there will be layoffs in a few months, when the government will give this opportunity, but don't you think that it will be the working women and mothers who will have to leave the job, if the government will not soon give them the opportunity to entrust their children quietly during working hours? [[Applause]] Or do you think that by regularizing 600,000 illegal moms will entrust the children to some improvised baby-sitter with bonuses, as if taking care of the children is the same as picking tomatoes? [[Applause]] They are both important and necessary, but different. At a time when production is restarting, childcare remains closed. Already before there was a clear lack of reconciliation services between family and work; few resources invested in this direction, despite the usual banal announcements. One must immediately think of a plan for the safe reopening of childcare services. Luckily, we are heading for the summer season and children can stay out in the open, take advantage of the speakers and peer schools that you are shutting down without help. You're killing them. There are 12,000 peer schools in Italy: you are shutting them down! [[Applause]] Give the faculty to the regions that know the local realities and that can reopen safely to do so, as today has also affirmed the city council member to the education of Piedmont. Please, I ask you with my heart, as a woman: help the poor Minister Azzolina, who will be remembered - I hope for her - more for the bright lipstick than for the extravagant ads she makes daily. Give quick answers to working mothers, as they are doing in the rest of Europe. It could be arranged in ten days. The problem had to be dealt with by starting to plan two months ago, when it was closed. Instead, in May, five months after the reopening of schools, the Minister thinks he will teach three days at home and three days at school: good thinking, congratulations, because it will be very easy for families to organize! On May 4, 75 percent of the workers who returned are men. How do you expect to give answers to women today who have to return to work without adequate support? If too many men do not know how to answer these requests, let us take into account what Margaret Thatcher said when she said: "If you want something to be said, ask a man; if you want something to be done, ask a woman." [[Applause]] You are not able to let those who, with will, skills and energy, have always been able to do so. In conclusion, once again I am sorry - as we repeat every day - to see that the government is teasing the country when it appeals to cooperation with the opposition. And even today we have confirmed this, because the government has decided to vote against our motion on women. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group on the motion of the right centre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u109	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, how often we have heard these days and again today in this House echo the phrase that women have been at the forefront of combating the virus. We've heard it so many times... [[Brusio.]] Gender equality is also respect when women speak. [[Applause]] I was saying that we've heard it so many times that it almost seems like an empty mantra of meaning, while it's the truth. We only think of the many doctors, nurses, health workers and researchers who have also been mentioned in this House and who have never stopped working and have fought hard against the spread of this virus. Or think of the women employed in the large food distribution, the many cashiers and clerks: they too have never stopped working and have allowed all of us to supply ourselves, but also to live that little contact with normality. Let us also think of the world of school, which has never stopped and has had to face the challenge of distance teaching at any moment: even there women teachers are still a very important number compared to men. So, on the one hand, we have a world of female work that has never stopped with this emergency; on the other, there is a world of care work that with the emergency and quarantine has not only not stopped, but has worsened, unfortunately falling even heavier on the shoulders of women, workers or not, in smart working or in presence. At the opposite end there are those sectors that have suffered a sudden arrest with this pandemic: I think of the whole world of personal care, the receptive tourism sector, the world of culture and entertainment. They are also sectors with a very large female component and they are precisely those that are likely to suffer the greatest damage from this health crisis. All this makes us fear that the gender gap, already quite relevant in our country, may become more acute as a result of this pandemic emergency and make women take back steps in employment levels, in the possibility of career progression and, in general, in their rights. We recognize, of course, that in the long term Italy has made small but important progress in reducing gender inequality, especially when it comes to working. Between 1977 and 2018, the female employment rate increased by 16 points, reducing the gap from 41 points at the time to 18 points at the present time. This is important progress, but it is certainly not enough if we think that as many as 11% of women who have at least one child have never worked in life. We do not hide that this data is also the son of a certain pervicacious culture that, especially in the most fragile areas of our country, is exactly what we expect from women. The family welfare, so far implemented, has not yet been sufficient to eradicate that subtle and creeping conviction that a woman who decides to have children must at least consider the sacrifice of her career, when not even the sacrifice of her economic and working independence. Yet, against this, we have an extremely lively female business in our country and growing, which represents a significant part of our economy. In fact, women's businesses are almost 1.5 million, equal to about 22% of the Italian business fabric, and employ 3 million people, demonstrating the firm will of women to put themselves into play and be fully responsible for their own destiny. It is hardly necessary to reiterate, therefore, that demanding fairness is not only a question of justice, which may seem like a thing of beautiful souls and does not always break in everyone's ears, but it is a question of economy: promoting women's participation in the labour market is not only fair, but it is fitting. And there is no need to uncomfortable Socrates, who already centuries ago had realized that the righteous, ctò δί Just mention the Governor of the Banca d'Italia Ignazio Visco, who said last December: For Italy, the expected potential growth in the coming years depends heavily on the assumptions about female participation, which results in a fundamental engine. It notes in quantitative terms, as there are more than 8 million women currently inactive, but it is also important in qualitative terms. Women, in fact, have high levels of education and have skills and skills, such as those relating to interpersonal relationships and communication, which are considered crucial in today's world of work. Not taking advantage of it represents a serious inefficiency for our economy; in the coming years, in fact, the sectors less characterised by physical-intensity work will represent an increasing share of the productive activity in the next few years. Well, then, the recent measures launched in connection with this emergency aimed at giving more protection to working women and promoting the reconciliation of life and work, such as the recognition of specific parental leave and allowances for parents working, civil servants, private or self-employed. They are a sign of the awareness that this Government has of the need to support workers in this difficult phase. However, as the first signatory to a bill providing parental leave to equal extent for fathers and mothers, I note that clearly what has been done so far is a lot, but it is still not enough to bridge that gap between men and women that the Global gender gap report highlights so clearly. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we have to tell ourselves the truth, namely that historically the Italian State has always made a great and excessive reliance on the family, i.e. on women, in order to compensate for its shortcomings in the matter of family welfare and with the Covid-19 the system has only shown in all its evidence its fragility. We must therefore be aware that the structural change to be carried out is necessary in the context of family welfare if we want the tragic lesson of these months not to fall into the void. Women in Italy cannot yet be faced with the anguish of whether to become mothers or to aspire to a career. Speaking of career, in this regard we must note that the presence of women in the apical positions is still a distressing rarity. Despite the undeniable merits of Law n. 120 of 2011, the so-called Gulf-Moscow on gender quotas, which this majority renewed in the last budget law for three further mandates and which - I remember with pride - through the amendment at first signature of Senator Primo Di Nicola we wanted to stabilize, we are still far from seeing a fair representation of women at the top of the companies. Other than crystal ceiling I've heard about, here the ceiling is there and you can see very well, it looks more like a concrete ceiling. But it is in politics that women are extremely under-represented. How can we legislators point fingers and ask others to do what we cannot do about ourselves? In politics, women are still very under-represented, especially when it comes to key roles. In this regard, a thank you goes to the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte, who immediately made himself available to remedy that obvious distortion in the composition of the task forces of experts who saw a reduced participation of women's competences, integrating them immediately with women of the highest profile. However, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that women are tired of asking. This country suffers from an atavistic strabism that must be treated at the root, a strabism that prevents it from seeing and considering the skills and work of an entire half of the population, for the benefit of all, not only of women. Therefore, beyond the individual commitments required of the Government through our motion, we really ask that women should no longer ask; we ask that the Government adopt a gender perspective that takes into account the different impact this crisis will have on women and men and act accordingly, now and for the future. We need to be aware that no measure will ever really be sufficient if we do not adopt in a structural way an integrated gender perspective that allows for every measure, every action put in place. The motion that we have tabled, which we strongly wanted, wants to be transversal and the gender perspective must enter into practice so that all those obstacles that characterize the path of women can be removed and that continue to keep them away from equal employment and pay and from occupying apical positions. I would like to conclude my speech with a special thought for all women, but above all for those who, in addition to the obstacles that every woman considers to find on her own path, find others even more difficult to overcome. I am referring to women who are victims of violence, to the effort they make to regain economic independence and return to society, to lesbian women and transgender women, who are still discriminated against when not excluded from the world of work, and finally to the last, to the most invisible: to the victims of trafficking and the prostitution market. I want to address them in the way I hope they can understand me in greater numbers: To all the women, girls and kids trapped in this nightmare called prostitution we say that we're here, we're listening, you can trust the institutions, trust the police, trust the associations... president. Senator, you need to speak Italian. MAIORIN (M5S). Now, Mr President, I shall speak in Italian. To all women, girls and girls trapped in this nightmare called prostitution and that someone would like to become a job we say that we are there, we are here, we are listening. Look with confidence to the institutions, to the forces of order, to the associations that fight at your side every day. You can break your chains, you can go back free and take your life back. All women have the right to specific protection and support to help them remove obstacles in achieving their full achievement, because this is what our Constitution says. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u112	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to make a request for a separate vote on motions, in particular the motion tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. Specifically, I would like to be able to vote separately on the basis of the commitments and, among the commitments, to vote separately on the commitment 6) compared with the others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u115	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, in order to complete Senator Stefani's request, we could also proceed to the separate vote on motion 231, separating the premises and then dividing the commitments, so that the premises are first voted on and then the commitments 1), 3) and 4) and then the commitments 2) and (5). I imagine that the government, which had previously given an overall opinion, can express itself in this regard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u116	Mr President, with regard to the request for a split vote, as regards the first-signed motion, Mr Conzatti, I confirm the favourable opinion on the premises and commitments, since the requests for abolition and rewording have been accepted. As regards Mr Stefani's first-signed motion, I confirm the contrary opinion on the premises and commitments (1), (3) and (4), while I refer to the House's decision on commitments (2) and (5).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u117	If there is no objection from the House to the request for a split vote, I consider it to be accepted. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions, even if for separate parts, will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 227 (text 4), tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 6 of motion 227 (text 4), tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion 227 (text 4), tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 231, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), 3) and 4) of the motion No 231 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 2 and 5 of the motion No 231 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u120	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, on 13 May, the 75th anniversary of the publication of the first issue of the 'Primorski dnevnik', a daily newspaper of the Slovenian national community in Italy, is celebrated and, I think, it is important to remember in this House. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u121	I would kindly ask my fellow Members, if not out of respect for the senator who should be responsible, to avoid gathering as you are moving away from this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u122	ROJC (PD). Today, May 13th, the 75th anniversary of the publication of the first issue of the "Primorski dnevnik" daily newspaper of the Slovenian national community in Italy. It is important - I think - to remember in this House the value of the written word, of a free and independent forum, especially for a linguistic minority that is certainly recognized not only in the territory, but in its own language and culture and cultivates and renews, precisely through the media, those linguistic registers that would otherwise be absorbed by a lemmatic heritage of the majority language, thus impoverishing the precious foundations defined, in the case of Slovenes, over at least fifteen centuries. When, between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, Trieste saw the economic and cultural rise of the Slovenian bourgeoisie, it was immediately understood the importance of its own newspaper. Thus the "Edinost" was born, a daily witness of the events until September 4, 1928, when he was forced to close by order of the fascist authorities. The first issue of the "Primorski dnevnik" of May 13, 1945 will sink its roots in the "Edinost", but it will happen to the glorious epic of the "Partizanski dnevnik", the only daily newspaper of the Resistance so far known that was given to the prints in the occupied Europe and brought by the partisan stalls every night from the Karavanche mountain range to Trieste and Istria. Those who were able to visit the typography of the "Partizanski dnevnik" in the impervious mountain reliefs of the Gorizia hinterland will be able to understand what epic undertaking was the printing of every issue of the daily with background articles and columns that constituted, especially for the Slovenians of Venice Julia who saw forbidden their own language for almost a quarter of a century, a precious sign of hope during the Resistance period. Therefore, his successor, the "Primorski dnevnik" represents a firm point in our everyday life. Today the newspaper is owned by a cooperative made up of over 2,000 members; it comes out on over twenty pages; it has a editorial staff of young professional journalists. During these 15 luxuries, it has become an important voice in the construction of dialogue between the Italian and Slovenian communities. Member of the FIEG and the Association of Minority Language Newspapers (MIDAS), the "Primorski dnevnik" continues to support the awareness of a speech that, overcoming those barriers of historical misunderstandings that many would like to keep alive, is aimed at dialogue with the neighbouring peoples, with the Regions of Alpe Adria and, therefore, of Europe of the present and the future. The "Primorski dnevnik" is, to all intents and purposes, an authoritative voice, underlined today also by the messages published by the President of the Republic of Mattarella and the President of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor. The newspaper is followed with affection and pride by its thousands of readers. Therefore, from this House, which preserves precious memories of freedom and deep respect for the institutions, I can only wish him a long, very long life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u125	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, pursuant to Article 117 of the Constitution, in accordance with the preventive action provided for in Article 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, regional law No 13 of 2019, which covers areas with a high risk of environmental crisis, is born with 11 articles, protecting the territory and the health of citizens. With Article 2, the Lazio Region undertakes to identify the territorial areas characterized by high environmental risk; with Article 3, the recovery plans should be identified; with Article 4, it commits itself to epidemiological investigations; with Article 5, the Region should identify and declare areas with high environmental risk; with Article 8, the Region, with the ARPA, ASL, Provinces and Municipalities must monitor the polluted areas. Well, my dear Zingaretti, not only does he elude himself and mask himself - and she does it well - such law, but, above all, there is no article 12 in which the 91 municipalities of the Province of Frosinone are declared excluded from such regional law. And there isn't even an article 13 that certifies Frosinone as a garbage can in Rome. I remind the Lazio Region that the Sacco Valley is the third most polluted site in Italy and is, in Frosinone, an open-air landfill, with overload of pollutants in water and land and therefore in crops and breeding. That's what we eat. And what does Zingaretti do to remedy an obvious commissionership of the Rays and in total boldness, also endorsed by the bieco opportunism of some obsequious Ciociano politician? It defines a new waste treatment plant in the area ASI of Frosinone, already heavily polluted, and, more precisely, in the municipality of Patrica. But Patrica, for its proximity, means Frosinone, Ferentino, Anagni, Supino, Morolo, Ceccano, Giuliano di Roma, Amaseno, Villa Santo Stefano. But do the golden offices and advice of the Region or not know the above-mentioned law? Why always and only in Frosinone the duo "Zinga-Ray" claims to throw away the Roman garbage? Every day, at least 15 Tir cross the municipalities to reach Roccasecca. But why don't Zingaretti and Raggi take their children to play and grow up in these sacrificed areas, where there's a puking smell? With a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2020 and at the hands of the Presidency of the Council, a disconcerting political decision was taken and, with a series of: visa, visa, sight, taken note of, considered, it is decided, with 13 complex and strange pages, to revoke its resolution of 7 March 2019. Basically, once again and shamefully forced the raising of the Roccasecca landfill to more than 16 and a half meters, also endorsing the construction of the fifth invader to accommodate the worldliness of Rome. And all for emergency and complacency. There is an offensive, unjust and dangerous arrogance, consequence of agreements and inability of the duo "Zinga-Ray" towards my Province. On the other hand, the many mayors rebel against the bieco opportunism and reverence of regional power are examples. Mayors who love the territory and not their own interests and who, with moral and political dignity and with real courage, oppose structured and conveyed choices with meticulous and hidden danger. The province of Frosinone has cried and weeps too much for diseases and tumors and for my citizens I demand respect. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u128	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian Parliament recognised by law on 9 May, the anniversary of the death of Mr Aldo Moro, as the day of the memory of the victims of internal and international terrorism. I was still a child, but I remember perfectly well that day in 1978, when the news spread in my elementary school, between the bewilderment and the horror of all, of the finding of Mr Moro's poor lifeless body. That day Italian democracy was brutally raped and lived years of fear. All the years of the first Republic, from the late 1960s to 1980, were characterized by an activity of political and subversive terrorism, red and black, by an extremist and revolutionary left and a neo-fascist right of reactionary imprint. The mother of all the massacres in Italy was surely that of Piazza Fontana in 1969. How to forget the bombs and the 17 dead? The innumerable processes, to date, have allowed to identify the neo-fascist reference environment, but the material performers have never been found, despite the commendable work of the magistrates. Then the massacre of Bologna, with 75 deaths, of black terrorism. I still remember President Pertini's tears at the sight of dying children. In all, until 2016, the deaths of terrorism were in Italy 283. In the lead years, many have also been the victims of terrorism abroad. We also remember the Palestinian attacks at Fiumicino airport. Only in 1973, 32 deaths including a mother and a child. Three attacks followed: in 1982, at the Synagogue in Rome, a Palestinian terrorist launched a grenade. Also on this occasion a nine-year-old, Stefano Taché, the first victim of anti-Jewish violence in Italy after the defeat of neofascism in 1945. The 2000s, on the other hand, were characterized by attacks of Islamic origin. Not to mention the Italian and Italian-American victims of the Twin Towers of New York, but we also remember the military victims in peace missions, in different countries such as Somalia, Kosovo and Afghanistan. It must be remembered that Italian legislation does not yet provide for equal treatment in terms of economic benefits and benefits to be paid between those who died in Italy and those who died abroad. We therefore need a new law establishing equal treatment. I have concluded and thank the whole House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u131	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any argument that has not been directly related to the current pandemic has no neighborhood these days and generates accusations of insensitivity. I take the risk, however, to point out to this House that in certain areas the emergency seems to favour, misleading the attention, maneuvers carried out to the detriment of the public interest. As always, the field that commits me is that of Article 9 of the Constitution, therefore of the Ministry entrusted to Mr Franceschini. Many of us read yesterday about "Il Fatto quotidiano" (The Daily Fact) the masterful reflection of Salvatore Settis on state museums. By rejecting the false myth of the museum - an enterprise that has to live from its own revenues, Settis puts the crucial question at the centre: what are museums for? And he responds with a passionate appeal to institutional reflection on what he calls the Italian model of protection, in fact already set aside in many areas of the Peninsula and at risk everywhere. As proof, it has just been appointed as interim to the regional direction of museums Piedmont, the former museum center, the director of the Royal Museums of Turin, an institute with special autonomy, which, selected although external to the public administration and with formation different from the traditional one of the directors Mibact, perfectly embodies the guidelines impressed on the administration of cultural assets by the Minister in office. The appointment satisfies those who, at the political - financial summits of the Region, badly endured the previous director of the pole, accused of excessive bureaucracy and tourist insensitivity, evidently a new case of crime. The well-informed read, however, not only an explicit departure from the predecessor's line, but the task of ferrying the consortium of real, public-private residences created in 2017, in a foundation of participation, of course in the shadow of the Compagnia di São Paulo. At Racconigi, meanwhile, the increase of the agreement signed by Mibact is ongoing in 2017 with the association "Le terre dei Savoia" (The Lands of Savoy), linked to the CRT foundation, therefore to Unicredit. Let me make it brief: the real risk is that this approach will open the way for interference by foundations as funding providers also in the cultural planning of state museums, in the management criteria and even in the selection of competences. And it is not an illusion, mine, but it is reality, so much so that the Ministry became partner of a project presented in Turin last year because it involved, beyond Mantova and Modena, the Royal Museums, aimed at developing a system of measurement of the museum's contribution to the creation of value, based therefore on an economic and commercial idea of culture, so much so that it equates cultural institutes to companies and intervenes on them with the tools proper to the economy. This permanently removes state museums from the model outlined by the Constitution, according to which the only income that state museums should commit to producing is that measurable with the growth of the cultural level of citizens. Not only in order to defeat the Covid19 it is therefore necessary a vaccine, but also in order to fight effectively and to make regress the pandemic of the museum-enterprise, which Settis says forced to self-finance with a frantic "monsterism" and with an increasing number of visitors and that - I add - from North Italy spread throughout the country, with the stolida connivance of the Roman College. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u134	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would just like to say that in the last vote I voted against - it also happens to those with some experience - but I wanted to vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of its indication.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u137	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am speaking in an extemporaneous way, having now learned something that has come to me from Sardinia, which denounces yet another act of inattention to Sardinia itself and especially to my territory. The closure of a road police detachment in Fonni, following the usual reorganisations, was announced. Fonni is a very isolated mountain country, which in winter lives whole days without any contact due to the abundant snowfalls. To date, the road police have played an extremely important role both in ensuring public order in this small community and, above all, in ensuring as much traffic as possible and has always moved in a very appropriate way to prevent isolation from this community. The justification is always the same: there are other neighbouring countries. Clearly, when making these choices - I have denounced it several times in this House - the peculiarities of the inland areas of Sardinia are not taken into account. It is said that there is a police station at 13 kilometers, but 13 kilometers in Sardinia are a distance that separates different worlds, with different languages, different dialects, they are places totally isolated from each other that do not even dialogue, in essence. I have preferred to denounce this state of affairs in the immediacy, but of course it will be my care to address myself directly to the Minister of the Interior to review this position which sometimes really poses problems of public order and public order, because often there are no principals and once again we are taking another one away. When we talk about attention to the inner areas we also refer to these things, otherwise we do not talk about it, we continue to say that the inner areas must go to die, as is happening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u138	I would like to inform the House that, in connection with the proceedings before the 7th Permanent Commission, the discussion of the decree-law on the conclusion and start of the school year on the agenda of today's sitting when concluded by the Commission will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u139	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-217.ana.u140	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.54 p.m.
