ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u1	The sitting is open (8:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1786. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, the general discussion and the reply of the representative of the Government took place, the Government put the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the bill and the discussion on the question of trust took place. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on Amendment 1,900, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u4	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u6	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, as you know, at least for its main part, was born to deal with the health emergency following the Covid, which obviously also affected the area of justice, presenting itself immediately with the spread of some contagion in various courts, including Naples and Milan. These cases forced the heads of the offices to isolate some sections of them, until they came to the complete or almost closing order (because, of course, the urgencies had to be carried out). Precisely for the progressive spread of the virus, measures have been adopted that have basically paralysed the judicial activity, allowing, as I said, to continue only in cases of actual urgency, through remote connections or in any case with the compliance with the prescriptions to protect the subjects involved. In fact, initially there were two separate measures, then unified in what we have before us today, proposed to the Commission, which also amended it. In essence, these measures were necessary and indispensable to remedy the inevitable malfunctions created by the spread of the pandemic and therefore the resulting paralysis I was talking about earlier. I must point out, however, that, in this case too - and here is a sad note - it is expected that there will be no new commitments of an economic and financial nature, because now all the measures of justice are always done with the clause of financial invariance (I take advantage of this to greet the Secretary, who arrived now, with whom I must say that, as always, the Commission has worked very well). As I have said so many times, in a sensitive and strategic area such as justice, I believe that we cannot fail to implement financial resources. I believe that, if this had been done, this measure could have been much more incisive and productive than more substantial effects. It is no coincidence that most of the amendments have been rejected under Article 81 of the Constitution. The hope, therefore, also for the future, remains that more attention will be paid to the problems of the judicial sector, objectively very in crisis, making available the necessary resources. The measure is very complex, it touches on a number of topics that I will talk about very briefly. However, I would like to clarify what I said earlier about the Undersecretary. The debate in the Commission took place in a very calm and constructive manner, so that several amendments proposed by the opposition were accepted. On the other hand, others - and this is another painful note - who would not have affected the scope of the measure, but would certainly have completed and improved it, have been rejected. Some of these have been rejected quite inexplicable. I am referring, for example, to the amendment relating to the time limits and, above all, to the length of the suspension of time limits, an issue which I touched upon during the general debate and which was then taken up by an amendment tabled by the Commission. This amendment, if accepted, would certainly have avoided those interpretative disparities which are very widespread throughout the national territory. I have had reports of this and, on the other hand, I myself have pointed out this incongruity and this lack of clarity. As you know, the conversion into law of a decree-law poses in the central period a problem of stopping the suspension of the terms and now this is causing disparities of interpretation, to which probably will be remedied through the jurisprudence, hoping that there will be no interpretive differences. As is well known, the conversion of a decree-law has effect ex nunc and not ex tunc; when the provision becomes law, the provision unfolds its effects ex nunc and not ex tunc. In fact it's been six days, there's no big difference, but there is, there could be a remedy, but it hasn't been done. An authentic interpretation of the rule already adopted would certainly have prevented these misunderstandings. The measure intervenes on the subject of interceptions, putting in place the delay of the entry into force of the new discipline in order to allow the necessary work at the offices of the prosecutors useful for the implementation of the legislation. The hope is that the offices will now once again be endowed with sufficient and indispensable economic resources - economic resources, but also human resources - to start the reform, even with the critical issues we know and which had been highlighted at the time of the approval of that measure. I believe that this can also allow for the wish for an organic reform of the whole area of interceptions in the context of that reform of the process that is on the way. In this respect, I would like to return to a subject which has caused a great deal of controversy during the vote on the amendments. I am referring to the amendment on the prescription which has been rejected, but on which I have expressed my opinion. By abstaining. This has created considerable confusion. I made it clear to the Commission, unequivocally, that I was in agreement with the content of the amendment, because my Group had tabled it, but when it was approved it indicated that I could not give a favourable opinion and I would abstain. This was because the Minister had already made a commitment to an organic review of the matter. There was a pact, which I am sure the Minister will soon respect and, consequently, the reason for my abstention was only this. All this, however, has created not a few controversy on social media and also on the media. However, we will continue to follow the subject of the prescription because, as I said, there is a commitment made by the Minister and we are part of a coalition. We do not intend to ambush the coalition of which we are part and continue to confront ourselves with an open face, very serenely and in a very profitable way, in order to remedy what we believe is a very serious dysfunction of the justice sector, that is, the subject of prescription (the facts are widely known). In this regard, however, I believe it is also necessary to call for the immediate convening of a table on justice by the Minister, who had been announced some time ago, in order to start the confrontation of which I said, aimed at finding a solution also to the issue of prescription. A further subject dealt with in the measure is the intervention on the penitentiary order, destined to overcome the polemics, sometimes instrumental, that have occurred during this period of lockdown on the releases determined by the emergency health. The opinion requested by the supervisory magistrate to the prosecutor of the Republic of the place where the sentence was issued and to the national anti-mafia prosecutor is expected to be obtained, assigning a time limit within which this opinion must be issued. The prediction of a term has also given rise to controversy, which in my opinion is completely unfounded. Yesterday I heard in this House that this term cannot be peremptory and that the opinion must still be acquired; the judge, before speaking, should wait until this opinion arrives. Frankly, it seems to me that this is a highly instrumental and devoid of real scope; apart from the fact that the opinion is not binding, we cannot forget that the judiciary is an autonomous body. Both the autonomy and discretion of the surveillance offices would be undermined. I would like to make a very brief point, Mr President. I would ask you to let me finish, since my speech is not long. The resumption of judicial activity was scheduled to take place on 1 July this year. I hope that the work will resume at full speed, because there are so many demands in this respect, both from the judiciary, which will be found with the offices infiltrated, and the part of the lawyer, who is experiencing a moment of difficulty as I think has never been experienced before. However, I believe it is necessary to entrust the heads of offices with the possibility of using all the resources and means necessary to comply with the hygiene and health regulations laid down by law. Another extremely important issue is that of the criminal trial remotely. Personally, I am absolutely opposed to this, as I am absolutely certain of the need to maintain the orality of the trial, in order to better guarantee the right of defence. The solution adopted, however, seems to me to be acceptable, at least for the time being, while waiting for the subject of the criminal trial to be organically reformed, as is being done, because the text of the reform of the criminal trial should shortly arrive at the Commission. I also think that there should be a further remark: we could probably have done more, in various areas, at such a difficult time for the operators in the sector. I am referring to both lawyers and honorary magistrates, on whom a debate is taking place. We could also have welcomed the amendments on the mediation and arbitration institute. I thought that amendments were very interesting, which would certainly have made it easier to apply them, with a destructive effect on the civil process. We trust that the organic reform of the civil process will enable us to remedy this issue as well. These are the general issues which this measure has dealt with and, even with the critical issues I have mentioned, I believe it is essential to renew this Government's confidence already given to the Minister. Therefore, I announce the vote in favour of Italia Viva on the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u9	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, today the Senate is called upon to express once again its umpteenth confidence in a decree-law. In fact, there are two, because, as we know, the text of Decree-Law No. 29 was combined with the text of Decree-Law No. 28. And in a few hours' time another one will be placed, on an even more important subject, the electoral one. By decree-laws in decree-laws, and by trust, Parliament is exonerated. Legislating by decree-law has become the rule. The discussion of a bill of parliamentary initiative as a rule has become an exception. The authoritarian vocation of the second Count Government, even worse than the first Count Government because, as you know, there is no limit to the worst, is now evident to all. The annoyance of parliamentary confrontation is a fact that alarms public opinion and citizens, being a very serious vulnus to democracy, as evidenced also by the derubrication of the intervention of the Premier, which will shortly be, on the European Council to merely inform in order to avoid the vote of Parliament. In the area of justice, Parliament's voice cannot be squeezed down. Times were there; the opposition had shown a sense of responsibility and a spirit of cooperation to improve a text that made water from all sides by presenting a few qualified amendments of merit, some even accepted by the rapporteurs and the Government by virtue of their obvious technical value. In particular, I would like to welcome the adoption of my amendment to reopen the courts on 1 July. The amendment was then made by the League and approved unanimously by the Commission. The Government must now follow and take the necessary steps to return to the auxiliary staff of the Registry, without which the reopening would have no effect. Equally important were and are many other proposals of the opposition, which deserved an examination and a vote of this House. I am thinking, for example, of my amendment 1.4 on interceptions via the trojan. The amendment proposes to use the trojan only when there is the certainty that it does not alter the content of the device in which it is installed, because the experts have informed us alarmingly that the trojan not only transforms the device into a transmitter, but also into a receiver and you can enter the trojan by introducing files, mails, photos and any element that can be used against the unsuspecting recipient of this intrusion. If we consider that the management of this activity is not directly the responsibility of the prosecutors, but is delegated to external societies, we all realize the delicacy of the matter. The amendment was rejected without a single explanation by the rapporteurs and the Government. My amendment 2.8 aimed at raising the age of seventy to seventy-five in order to allow the sentenced person to apply for home detention. Today, a seventy - year - old is young; it is not like in the 1970s, when the penitentiary system was approved. I would like to remind you that the infamous circular of the Department of the penitentiary administration (DAP) of 21 March laid the age of seventy years as a condition already sufficient in itself to access the benefits referred to in Article 123 of the Italian decree cure and, more generally, of the house detention. My amendment 2.15 aimed at repealing Article 123 of the Italian decree on care, which introduced a disruptive principle into our legal system so that home detention is no longer only when people are ill and the pathological condition is incompatible with the prison condition, but we also go when there is a risk of becoming ill. Therefore, you will go into home detention today for Covid, tomorrow for meningitis and the day after tomorrow for AIDS and who knows how many other diseases. This principle must be eradicated from our order, because it is very dangerous. Again, my amendment 2.9, so that those convicted of serious crimes, those referred to in Article 4-a of the penitentiary order, no longer have the opportunity to go into house arrest. This is because criminals, who must have a fair trial, with maximum guarantees, when convicted, must serve the sentence they have rightly received. Furthermore, my amendment 3.26, because the criminal trial must always be in place when witnesses, experts, interpreters or the cause is to be discussed. This right is not available and, as such, must be removed from the availability of the parties. Many other amendments would have deserved to be discussed in this House, such as the many amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy to remedy the serious problems that will arise under Article 6 of the Decree-Law, the one which introduces the so-called Immuni app, as denounced yesterday, in general debate, by my fellow Members, Mr Rauti and Mr Urso, to which I refer. And then there are other important amendments by Mr Pillon, Mr Caliendo and others. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Brothers of Italy will vote against, not only because, of course, it cannot express confidence in this Government, but because, with this decree-law, the prosecutions of bureaucracy have been flooded to cover the errors of the Government in the management of prisons and justice. The judiciary has been flooded with surveillance of a mountain of work and of obligations impossible to dispose of in the assigned times. It was enough to accept our amendments, because criminals must remain in prison. It is useless to invoke the re-educational function of the sentence, because, in order to have a re-educational function, the penalty must be taken for granted. If you don't serve the sentence, there can't even be the reeducational function of the sentence. Maximum guarantees in the process, just severity in the application of the penalty: this must be the principle of a legal civilization like what we want to say. Instead, this government, how did you respond to the riot in prisons? Millions of euros of damage, deaths, wounded prison police officers and then put on trial. Only in Italy can things of this kind happen. Shame, dear Minister and dear Undersecretary! The Government responded with Article 123 of the Italian decree and with the circular of 21 March: 8,000 prisoners at home, including hundreds of dangerous criminals. That was the answer. Instead of prosecuting for very direct and keeping the rebels in prison, we put them out: only in Italy do things of this kind happen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that we will vote against, partly because we are very concerned about what is coming on the horizon. Minister Bonafede continues to summon opposition to the Ministry to discuss a reform of the MSC which is already one year late, because the Palamara case broke out a year ago. And this is not the Palamara case: it is the case of a mafia method applied by the CSM in the allocation of the most important offices of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u10	Senator Balboni, in my opinion, the term mobster is out of place talking about an institution of the state. Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I refer to definitions made by magistrates to the public. With all due respect, Mr President, but if the magistrates say so, I think a representative of the people can say so too. [[Applause.]] Senator, I think, as a lawyer, you know that you answer personally what they say. We are now in the Senate and I am the guarantor of a certain tenor of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u11	And I'm used to answering what I'm saying. It is time to put an end to the revolving doors between the judiciary and politics. A magistrate who enters politics can no longer return to judge an Italian, because he must be above all suspicions. The Minister must come to Parliament - in this House and in the Commission - to confront himself, and above all, he must not take the lead that Parliament will adopt a delegated law on this very important subject. We want to discuss this here and vote here. Mr President, for these reasons we cannot trust the current government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u14	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Giorgis, after long and dramatic months, our country, shocked by an unprecedented health emergency, is gradually returning to normal. We mourn thousands of deaths and we are aware that lockdown - the total blockade - has produced enormous damage to our country's economy. There is no time to waste; immediate measures are needed and are being discussed in support of workers, families, weaker people and businesses. At the same time, however, it is essential to put in place a strategy that is not limited to rebuilding pre-Covid Italy (even because it would be illusory to think of being able to do so), but that plans the future of our country, changing it in the foundations. It's a great opportunity. In the different stages numerous tables were created, involving dozens of experts and auditors representatives of many categories. We are confident that we can soon pull the strings and transform the many political and factual ideas into concrete, feasible and verifiable policies. After very difficult months in which, thanks to the commitment of all the citizens, we have managed to contain the virus as much as possible, a new phase opens before us. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I hear a little chat that bothers me, but I am used to talking like that, so I can continue because there is no sense of respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u15	Colleagues, there are not many of us in this House and, paradoxically, there is even more buzz. [[Comments.]] What's the matter, Senator? [[Comments.]] I'm looking at you because you're talking right now. Don't worry, I don't miss anything at all and just keep looking at what I try to represent you. From this sector comes a strong burst, as well as from the benches of the Movimento 5 Stars. Please, Senator Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u16	In this regard, I would like to congratulate Minister Roberto Speranza for signing an important memorandum of understanding on the research and production of the vaccine and testify to my closeness to the threats and insults received these days. It is now vitally important to consolidate the encouraging data on dissemination and implement all necessary measures to avoid new outbreaks and to act promptly so as to limit them. We have pointed out to the relevant Ministries our comments on some non-secondary aspects of the functioning and development of the Immuni app. We expect the government to do what is necessary in the coming weeks to ensure the highest data security standards and maximum effectiveness for this prevention tool, which I think is useful. Matteo Salvini, who has recently publicly shown that he does not observe the basic rules of social distance and of the use of the mask, proudly stated that he will not dump Immuni, being known its confidentiality, its secrecy and its strenuous and constant defence of privacy. If there is a bad example, I must say that he never backs down. I have already downloaded the Immuni app and I invite everyone to do the same. The justice sector has also suffered and suffers the consequences of the pandemic, a very difficult situation, a stasis that for obvious reasons can no longer last and that can no longer be healed only by a decree of urgency, we must not forget it. A country in which legal certainty is not guaranteed and in which justice, criminal and civil, does not work as it should be, is still a slow country, so much so that it causes people who should be in prison to be released and this happens because of the slowness of justice; it is a country that remains still exposed to many problems of a social, economic and political nature. Over the years Italy has accumulated a very serious delay in terms of resources destined for justice, of inability to propose and implement a broad and radical revision of the codes, of being able also to solve a dramatic shortage of structures and staff, as well as innovative technologies. Well, the decree-law under consideration must therefore be regarded as a first and necessary step in tackling the immediacy of the crisis. I hope that this will be followed by a more extensive and in-depth reform work which is no longer procrastinable. I am reminded, for example, of the fact that Senator Balboni referred to Article 4-a of the penitentiary order, which the Constitutional Court, making the very orientation of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) on the so-called obstructive life sentence, declared partially unconstitutional. I remember very well the reasons that led Giovanni Falcone to create the double track for Mafia crimes. I remember that well because I was then at the Ministry and it was felt that the benefits should be granted only to those who demonstrated that they had broken ties with the Mafia in a certain way, working with justice. I accept that thirty years after that season there is a different legal sensitivity, supported by learned and subtle arguments. In the anti-Mafia Commission, we have worked on a report setting out the path to overall reform, not in the sense indicated by Senator Balboni, but it is time to move from words to deeds. With the decree-law under consideration, apart from the difficult gestation in the Justice Commission, I believe that the majority has achieved a good result. We have necessarily had to extend to 1 September the entry into force of part of the wiretapping regulation introduced by the Orlando reform. The interceptions - I repeat - remain a formidable instrument of investigation, especially for some types of crime, such as corruption. However, the heart of the measure undoubtedly concerns the scope of the penitentiary order, the execution of the sentence and how the right to health of each prisoner should be countered, without prejudice to the principle of certainty of the sentence and taking into account social security requirements. The right to the dignity and health of prisoners is certainly as valid as that of all other citizens, whatever they have committed and, as we all know, at this moment in our country's prisons the reality is quite different from this affirmation of principle. Let's not hide behind a finger. The Covid emergency created a short circuit that undermines the image of the state. The idea of fragile, yielding institutions has passed away, unable to live up to the fight against organised crime. There are widespread responsibilities that in these weeks we have deepened and that we are still deepening and it is above all here that this measure intervenes, introducing the obligation for the judge of surveillance to assess in a more stringent way the granting of both house arrests for health reasons, and the actual permanence of those reasons, which have failed which must be reconstituted the detention in prison. It is therefore expected that the supervisory judiciary should request, in the case of convicted of mafia and terrorist offences, the mandatory opinion of the district attorney or, for those subject to the special detention regime of Article 41- bis of the prison order, the opinion of the national prosecutor anti-mafia and anti-terrorism. This is in order to acquire and give the supervisory judiciary that information on the topicality of the links with organised crime and the danger of the subject, that can restore the balance between health and social security and, in some cases, to review the judgment issued in the emergency to bring back in the care and assistance of prisoners and sentenced, always under a prison detention regime. The hope is that in this way the dramatic consequences of returning to the territories of origin of prisoners considered dangerous will be mitigated and that I attribute to a sort of general blurring of all the authorities involved. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of Free and Equal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u19	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course, vote for the government's confidence in this measure. What we are about to vote for is a positive and important measure, which will help to restart the justice machine after the long pause imposed by the pandemic, will give more strength to the fight against the mafias and will allow, with a primary rule, to support an important tool to fight the Covid-19 as the Immuni app. I want to say right away, as has already been acknowledged by various opposition interventions, that the law of conversion that we are about to vote is the result of everyone's contribution. Dozens of amendments have been voted on which have improved and enriched the text of the decree. Many of these have been presented by oppositions and minorities, and this is based on the constructive spirit that led the work in the Commission, but also on the willingness of the Government to make the most of Parliament's contributions. I want to stress this joint work, because I consider it important, but also to highlight the wrong tones of propagandistic opposition that we heard in yesterday's debate and today's debate. On the merits of the decree, I would first like to underline briefly the choices made in order to make the best possible sharing of the activities of justice. The same extension of the deadline for the entry into force of the law on interceptions is the daughter of the request coming from many prosecutors to leave them the time necessary to equip themselves for the proper management of the archives. After the months of stoppage that prevented this work, it was fair and lawful a request of this kind. I heard some colleagues say in yesterday's debate that they had foreseen a postponement already during the approval of the decree-law on interceptions: in fact, they were either so good that they could predict the pandemic or, without the pandemic, they would not have needed it. I want to say it now: for the Democratic Party, further referrals, feared for the future, would not be acceptable. Secondly, I think it is important for us to anticipate the opening of the courts and the hearings to 1 July, as we were urged to do by so many legal practitioners. Similarly, it is important that we have made this transition by safeguarding programmes and deadlines. I would add that the issue of civil and criminal processes remotely and the use of the telematic transmission of acts and communications find in this decree clear limits of use, especially in the criminal process. However, I think it is clear, even after the experience of these months, that the subject is of great interest. It is clear that the use of the network can become an extraordinary opportunity to speed up procedures and reduce costs. The work on the reforms of the criminal and civil process will have to take into account the discussion and experience of these months: the experience of these months will have to be a reference for that discussion. This measure, and I say it without the will of propaganda, also serves to give more strength and more tools to the state for the fight against the mafias; struggle that has never stopped - I say this because frankly yesterday in many interventions it has exaggerated - than many propaganda professionals say. Simply see how many investigations, only in these weeks, have led to hundreds of arrests, from Trapani to Palermo, from Calabria to Campania to Veneto, to say without a doubt that the State is there and is able to settle very hard blows to the mafias. Telling, as you do too often, for pure propaganda a different thing does not help. Telling about failures and backward steps in the fight against the mafia does not help, does damage, nourishes that distrust and those divisions that help organized crime. Certainly the placing under house arrest - I insist, house arrests, no liberation, no humiliation of the activity of magistrates and Forces of the order, as I heard yesterday - of too many convicted for Mafia crimes has been serious and has brought out the need for further rules to ensure that the mafia cannot return to their territories, rebuilding relations with their organizations. This is the sense of an important part of these decrees. At the beginning of the pandemic, rightly, as all the countries of Europe have done, we raised the problem of preserving the health of prisoners and those who work in prison, knowing that overcrowding and the closed institution make it difficult to distance social and other measures applied to the outside. Preserving the health of prisoners, of all prisoners, is a duty, a responsibility that we could not and cannot escape. In fact the point is not this, it is not article 123 of the Italian cure, which provided for house arrests with bracelet for those who were still to serve up to eighteen months of imprisonment - among other things that provision explicitly excluded the inmates under regime of 41- bis or for crimes of mafia - and it is not even the famous circular of the Department of the penitentiary administration, which signaled the need to safeguard the subjects at risk in the face of the emergency Covid. That, too, is not at the root of the problem. The point was that the daily relationship between the Department of penitentiary administration and the anti-mafia prosecutor, who updated the situation of inmates for associative crimes, broke down and the prosecutor could not assert his right to report the risks of recurrence of relations with criminal organizations and prevent house arrests. Secondly, while we all agree - and I hope we all agree - that the right to health must also be guaranteed to the worst criminals, there were no alternative structures - and it was up to the DAP to do so - that could guarantee, together, the safety and health of the prisoner. Today, with these two measures (the one that obliges the surveillance judiciary to ask and obtain the opinion of the anti-mafia prosecutors on the links still existing with the criminal organizations and the danger of the prisoner and the one that asks the surveillance judiciary to re-evaluate every thirty days the measures taken, against alternative hypothesis of imprisonment compatible with the state of health of the prisoner), we intervene to prevent the repetition of events like this. Before concluding, Mr President, allow me to highlight two more speeches made on the text of the Decree-Law by means of amendments adopted together with Senator Piarulli as rapporteurs. The first is the measure that, after many years, lays down certain rules regarding the possibility of entry and intervention of a guarantor under the prison regime under 41-bis, on which there was uncertainty. The only sure thing, which we reiterated, was that the national guarantor could meet the prisoners, in the name of a series of international treaties, even without videotape; it was not regulated what regional guarantors and local guarantors could do, but today it is. We also secured this point, because the local security officers who met and spoke with inmates under the 41-a regime were something that could not be heard. With reference to the other intervention, I note that in this debate there is a great deal of effort to support the need to keep people in prison; well, since the prison condition is an important thing, regarding which we must be careful, and since the lockdown has blocked the talks and has shown us that the instrument of the telephone and the remote meeting with the family can be used quietly and safely for prisoners, this provision stipulates that prisoners with minor children or children with disabilities can call their relatives once a day (they speak of parents or cohabitants or spouses). I think it is an act of civilisation and humanity, a measure of which Parliament - given that the Commission voted in favour of this amendment almost unanimously - must be proud. Mr President, I shall conclude by acknowledging to the Government and the Ministers that they have listened to us. In the debate on trust we asked Minister Bonafede to recognize the coalition that supports him, not to do things alone, to share choices with the majority. On these decrees-laws it was so and we are satisfied with it. We expect important measures and reforms, starting with that of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as reforms of the criminal and civil process. This passage shows that, if the majority work in this way, on such a difficult and often divisive terrain, we can do much and good for this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u22	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would first like to thank the Minister, because he spoke last night, after the general debate, in relation to the Immuni app. I would like to thank you for introducing a criterion, namely that you, regardless of what has already been agreed, will continue to assess the guarantees that ensure the anonymity of that particular measure. I would like to see this logic always in our way of working, because last night I ensured a debate that was focused on one aspect: the guarantee of the rules with respect to the overpowering of the law, when it does not remain in the rule. The right becomes overwhelming when the right of defence is not respected and when everyone is not guaranteed equal treatment. Today, however, I want to discuss why the legislative product of this legislature is not such that it can have the general consensus that characterized the measures issued during the sixteenth legislature and the fourth Berlusconi Government. Each of you, who was there or has read the laws of that time, will be aware of a fact: most of the laws were passed unanimously. Despite the clash, which you will remember very well, and the different idea that was the basis of each political force, it was possible to vote unanimously, starting from the 41-a discipline. It was not my fruit, it was my merit to put together what had emerged from some positions - and there were as many as four in Parliament - in order to achieve unanimity. This is the logic of a confrontation between opposition and majority. Mr. Deputy Minister, I have a great deal of respect for you, but you have to realize that it is necessary to take responsibility, even for the Ministry's legislative office, for the position that the policy must adopt is the one that arises from the confrontation between majority and opposition in these classrooms. We do not study it only in the first year of law that the law is the result of the compromise between opposing interests. This compromise can only be achieved here, because it is done here in the light of the sun: not a compromise of interests that cannot be publicly expressed, which we must fight, but we must work for the other solution to occur as often as possible. I don't have to give you any examples. I am not interested in you expressing a favourable opinion on the amendment. You know better than I do that it does not belong to my conception and my way of being a Member of Parliament: I do not care if you vote on an amendment of mine, but I would like it to be discussed whether it is more or less valid. You know better than I do what happened during the debate in the Commission, when on one of my amendments, although only formal (I take for example the one farther from the content), which, with regard to the calls that prisoners can make to minors, went to correct only a punctuation error, it was enough to read the name of the first signatory, Caliendo, to express the contrary opinion. Then, after you voted against it, you realized that it was right to consider it and you made the change that I proposed to you: that is the logic. This way of working is not possible. Can I give you an example? Last night, I defended not an amendment of mine, but a right, the right to defend the prisoner, of each prisoner. I very much appreciated Mr Balboni and I agree 100% with what he said, but on one thing probably the heat - as I hope - has betrayed the thought, in the sense that I cannot accept the idea that, if guy is held, then we throw the key, because this is not possible. We must have respect, not only because the penalty must comply with the constitutional principles, but because the sacred right to health of a prisoner must be respected and must be guaranteed. The state must ensure that there are suitable prison facilities and that there is the possibility of hospitalization, because, President Grasso, there can be no difference between the Mafia prisoner and the common prisoner: in the face of health they are all equal. We must guarantee those guarantees and those rights to everyone. That is why I cannot accept the idea that everything is happening through a debate between prosecutors expressing opinions and the supervisory judge who finds a formulation of the norm with a series of indications, which mean only one thing: dear magistrate of surveillance, we give you the order to bring back inside the prisoners who have gone out. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u23	Colleagues, please. The debate is interesting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u24	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). This is wrong. It may be right, but it must be achieved through the rules of the right of defence. I proposed three days, but you said no. What's the reason? Why can't there be a dialogue between defense and prosecution in order to assess the characteristics of the health system? There's a logic. Minister, on this you must convince the Ministry's legislative office that for two years it has behaved differently than it had always behaved. There can be no logic of diversified positions depending on our political belief; the political belief is about the great options, while the norm that we are going to build is something that is the result of our continuous dialogue. To think that there may be a dialogue between me and those of the opposition, but not with those of the majority, is wrong. When I hear you say "we're doing a majority meeting," it's ridiculous. I was part of the government but I never did, because the majority meeting means: "I want to fool you" and this is not the right logic, which should be to say: "Let's verify together what the aspects are." Look, from the fact that an amendment passes or is rejected, we don't earn a vote, none of our parties earn it. What's needed is for us to be able to figure out what we're doing here. I want to believe that we are all here for one thing: to ensure that our country vindicates the great choices of freedom that are the foundation of our Constitution, but at the same time that the country wants to grow with guarantees and freedoms, without ever deflecting. For this reason, and not only because you always use trust and decree-law, I believe that the Forza Italia Group cannot fail to vote against trust in this Government, because it is also the Government's job to promote that speech between majority and constitutionally correct opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u27	OSTELLARI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General will apologise if I address the Minister in my speech, but if you ask for confidence, you must also have the courage to put your face to it and I think that the Minister would have done well to come to this House today. [[Applause.]] If there had been a political direction within the Ministry of Justice and if he had listened to us, today we could have talked about something else, not about this measure: we could have talked about CMR, about currents and honorary magistrates; we could have talked about prisons, prison police, court staff, magistrates and resources, but above all about the future of justice in this country. We find ourselves, however, first of all ratifying an extension on interceptions, because, in fact, this is something that, as you will remember, we had already asked to postpone, but nothing, the Minister does not listen to oppositions. At least the professionals, associations and practitioners of justice, however, could you listen to them? No. After all, Minister, you did not abandon your legal career to be a Minister or a Member of Parliament and - correct me if I am wrong, ladies and gentlemen - I remember that you were a candidate for the spokesperson of the citizens: not the honourable or the caste member, but someone who first listens and then does. I'm sorry if today, as you have a little betrayed your mandate, that role that should have been yours I hire and speak for the presidents of the courts, prosecutors, lawyers, forensic associations, suspects, defendants, offenders, offenders and innocent people who end up in jail, even if you don't know it. [[Applause.]] By the way, there are a thousand per year, that is three per day, with a total cost of 740 million euros for compensation and I think it is worth remembering today, ladies and gentlemen, on the anniversary of the arrest of a man, an Italian named Enzo Tortora, who was the victim of one of the many judicial errors on June 17, 1983. [[Applause.]] Excuse me again, Minister, if I am a spokesperson for consumer and citizens' associations, concerned about the violation of privacy, and if, with all of them, I ask you to reconsider the reform on interceptions, which today, ironic of fate, asks this House to block for a few more months, an extension that probably will not be the last. Will you listen to me? Will you listen to us? Will you listen to us and the Italians? You will also listen to the questions coming from the country, who ask, for example, why did Dr. Basentini resign? Don't tell us and don't tell us you did it for personal reasons. Yesterday, Dr. Romano, in the Anti-Mafia Commission, explained well how things went and today we read it in the newspapers. And why did bosses and criminals get out of jail? In this regard, we are also voting today on the order you give to the supervisory tribunals to review the decisions taken on the issue of release. It's a useless order, you know: it's an order that only serves to dump on others the responsibility for his mistakes, at least that of not having monitored. [[Applause.]] By the way, again yesterday, in the Anti-Mafia Commission, Giulio Romano argued that the minister shared the famous circular. So, if that is the case - and you have to tell us - the wrong person has resigned. [[Applause.]] Allow me a few more minutes, for a broader analysis that I would like to make. In these two years, I have had the opportunity to know the Minister and the Ministry, but above all to analyse the measures which were submitted to the Commission and this House from time to time. To a large extent, but I must say above all in the last year, these were rules without vision, uncoordinated legislative actions, which seemed to betray improvisation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, other characteristics that I found unbearable and that, mistakenly, I blamed the Minister. In fact, over the course of the months I have gathered sufficient evidence to understand that those rules, adjustments and uncoordinated actions were not from the Minister, but from someone else, because after all, dear Minister, you have not stopped being a spokesperson, only that instead of being a citizen, you have found yourself the spokesman of the Palace: you have become an instrument of other powers, who have found in you a reliable ally. [[Applause.]] Do you know who I'm talking about? Some reporters, some magistrates, some technicians. And, be careful, those of the journalist, of the magistrate and of the technician are all categories obviously professional, respectable and precious, but they are called to do something else and that have not been elected to decide or to replace politics, unless politics chooses to count nothing more, to ratify decisions made by others, to renounce every vision and to lean on stronger powers to move forward. At this point, then, a provocation: we, as a League, have also voted for the cut of Members, but why do we not close Parliament? I say provocatively: why don't we all go home? Why don't we declare the failure of politics, the confrontation of ideas and let the technicians, the currents of the judiciary, some journalistic friends be free? [[Applause.]] I say no and you know why? Because we believe in democracy, because we have been voted to decide and not to make a living. It is for this reason that we are tired of meeting here to convert decree-laws and we can no longer tolerate a government issuing measures on which it constantly puts trust, after having, moreover, suffered - I remind you - a plethora of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, the famous measures that have even threatened our prerogatives as parliamentarians, in our role of control and criticism. This is at such a point - and I would like to remind you, thanking him, as you should all do - that the President of the Senate has had to express himself publicly in order to protect the fundamental role of every senator in the performance of his duties. [[Applause]] And not for ourselves, not to go to the sea, but to guarantee the freedom of the citizens who voted for us and who demand choices and responsibilities from us. That is why, Minister and colleagues, we will continue to oppose, not out of controversy, but to talk about ideas, proposals and to ask for political decisions to be taken in this House and not in some villa or hotel. Speaking of hotels, I close by thanking - today I do everything in a somewhat paradoxical way - also Dr Palamara and especially the journalists who revealed the contours of his epic, demonstrating, moreover, how many already suspected, how many magistrates for good could not bear. In conclusion, I am not a fan of gossip, nor of reading private conversations and what worries me is not so much what Palamara said, what upsets me is what he does not say and that the Minister of Justice did not say: it is the silence of politics. [[Applause]] The embarrassment, the attempt to deprive her of every prerogative, an attempt of which, even today, the Minister becomes an accomplice and not alone. Dear colleagues, have you lost your tongue? How can you agree to live under blackmail? Is it not time to free Parliament from invasions of the field? An attempt against which, inside and outside Parliament, the League will fight with all its might. For these reasons, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote against yet another confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u30	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Undersecretary, the huge tragedy that has struck in our country has devastated the lives of more than 60 million people, altering their living conditions and reaping about 35,000 victims. All sectors of civil society have been affected, in particular justice, which has justified intensive urgent decision-making. The decree-law that we are about to convert into law today, the result of the collaboration of all Commissioners of the Commission Justice belonging to all political forces, is part of this emerging context, with the aim, on the one hand, of mitigating the effects of the spread of the virus and, on the other hand, of ensuring efficient and effective judicial activity. The issues are of great importance: the extension to 1 September of the entry into force of the provisions relating to the regulation of interceptions to the introduction of the application of the Immuni, the provisions relating to the measure to limit the effects of the epidemic on the national judicial system. Finally, the rules on the discipline of the penitentiary system, on so-called permits of need and detention so-called by way of derogation, are of particular importance. There are two aspects I would like to mention in particular: changes to the rules on permits and detention and measures to limit the effects of the epidemic on the judicial system. With regard to Law No 354 of 1975, the intervention consists in the provision of a mandatory opinion for the supervisory magistrates, who must ask the anti-mafia prosecutor in relation to the topicality of the links with crime... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - Excuse me a moment, Senator Evangelista. May I ask colleagues from Forza Italia to lower the volume of the voice? Please continue. EVANGELIST (M5S). As regards amendments to the 1975 law, the intervention consists in the provision of a mandatory opinion to be requested by the supervisory magistrates from the anti-Mafia prosecutor in relation to the topicality of the links with organised crime and the danger of the prisoner to whom they intend to grant permission or postponement of the execution of the sentence under house arrest. To be precise, only the opinion of the District Attorney is required, if the decision concerns a prisoner for serious crimes, referred to in Article 51 paragraphs 3-a and 3-c of the Code of Criminal Procedure; instead, the opinion of the National Attorney is also required, if it concerns a prisoner subject to the special detention regime referred to in Article 41-a of the penitentiary order. These provisions were supplemented by the government amendment, which transferred the legislation provided for in Decree-Law No 29 into the corpus of the decree-law that we are about to convert, consolidating within a single measure the important novelty of the procedure inherent in the granting of the measures referred to above, i.e. the subsequent and periodic revaluation of the measures in view of the topicality of the reasons laid down on the basis of the decisions of the supervisory judiciary. In particular, limited to the current epidemiological emergency, it is expected that the surveillance judge who has ordered the detention should assess the permanence of the reasons related to the health emergency. The revaluation shall be carried out in the same manner as the concession; it shall be carried out within 15 days of the adoption of the original measure and thereafter on a monthly basis. On the other hand, in relation to a sub-amendment approved in the Commission, the supervisory magistrate is required to assess the interim measure to immediately forward the opinions and information acquired and the measures taken to the outcome of the evaluation to the supervisory tribunal. In the event that the supervisory tribunal has ordered the withdrawal of the house detention or the postponement of the sentence adopted on a provisional basis, it shall decide on the admission to the house detention or on the postponement of the sentence within 30 days of receipt of the revocation order. In order to make the judiciary responsible for its actions and for the rule to be protected by censures of unconstitutionality, it is foreseen that failure to intervene in the court decision within the prescribed period will result in the loss of effectiveness of the revocation order. Then, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of release for house arrest related to the health emergency, we do not confuse what happened with the measures of the judiciary surveillance with what, instead, provided for by Article 123 of the Italian cure. The risk of spreading the pandemic also concerned the environment of the prison, by its nature closed and overcrowded, with all the criticalities we know. Overcrowding is an age-old problem that drags in time, despite the measures of the governments that preceded us and the intention of this Government is to resolve it, once and for all, with a powerful plan of prison building. In the face of about 57,000 people in prison, of which about 7,000 are too many, the Giallorossi Government's attempt to stem the health emergency for prisoners for not very serious crimes and with almost obvious punishment has provided for talks on telematic platforms and the granting of home detention. Therefore, the alleged controversy of the opposition with regard to the norm referred to in Article 123 of the Italian decree cure, which allowed only until the end of the medical emergency and, therefore, for a limited time, the detention of a considerable number of prisoners for not very serious crimes, are worth nothing. On the contrary, it is precisely from this legislation that the Minister of Justice is determined not to release inmates for mafia, as expressly established by Article 123 of the Italian cure. This rule, moreover, has gone to novellare the corpus normative dictated by the so-called empty prisons of 2010, a law approved by the center-right, when it was to the Berlusconi government. At that time there was Minister Alfano; Minister Alfano, former Undersecretary Senator Caliendo, whose intervention is highly appreciated: many things you could have done when you were in the Government and you were in the Ministry of Justice. The Italian care, on the contrary, has laid more stringent criteria than those provided for by ordinary law. On the other hand, with regard to the issue of the release of the Mafia prisoners, it should be pointed out first of all that it is not a question of tout court release, as journalistically and instrumentally stated, but of a postponement of the sentence resulting in house detention or in health facilities due to seniority or the presence of serious pathologies that, associated with the risk of contagion by Covid, become and involve a death risk. These are not 478 Mafia prisoners, as has been said, but 55. Of the 256 released for home detention, the inmates for Mafia crimes are, therefore, only 55, which, moreover, now, with the system of re-evaluation of the concession within fifteen days, introduced precisely by the decree-law that we are about to convert into law, have been in the vast majority brought back to prison. The detention of 256 prisoners - only 55 under the 41-a regime or under the high security regime - is, therefore, a measure resulting only and exclusively from the unmistakable decision taken by the judiciary of supervision which, let us not forget, is third, autonomous and distinct power of the State and certainly not a decision of the Ministry of Justice, as is wanted to be demagogically believed. The magistrates of surveillance, moreover, have done nothing but apply the laws in force since 1930 with the code Rocco and since 1998 with article 47-b of the penitentiary order and articles 146 and 147 of the penal code, which in particular states that the penalty must be deferred if it must be executed against those who are in serious conditions of physical infirmity. A rule whose ratio is to ensure that the execution of the sentence never conflicts with the constitutional principles of protection of human health and dignity and of the human prison sentence aimed at the re-education of the deed. In fact, the so famous and controversial circular of the DAP of 21 March makes a list of prisoners, certainly in serious pathological conditions, which, however, does not fall among the rules cited by the judgments of the supervisory courts that have arranged the famous release for house detention. In any case, in order, however, to also protect the sacrosanct right of citizens to the necessary security compared to the prisoners who have been guilty of serious crimes of the mafia type, with this decree-law we have provided a mechanism of opinions, interlocutions and information exchanges between judiciary surveillance, national prosecutor and district prosecutors anti-mafia that, through a periodic revaluation of the presuppositions of the granting of the measure, will best guarantee all the needs of defence and social security. On the other hand, as regards measures to limit the effects of the epidemic on the national judicial system, it should be remembered that, following the emergence of the health emergency, the adoption of all organisational measures within the judicial offices was an obligatory choice, aimed at protecting the health of workers and citizens. The entrusting of organizational choices to the individual heads of judicial offices has been... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u31	Senator Evangelista, I must invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u32	EVANGELIST (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. Unfortunately, then, I must skip the part about the legislation relating to the judicial offices that I ask to be able to leave to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. EVANGELIST (M5S). Thank you, President. I would briefly like to mention all the changes that have been made to the process, in particular the amendment, which the Commission accepted unanimously, in order to resume work on 1 July and on new telematics, both with regard to the civil process and with regard to the telematic process. I shall conclude, then, Mr President, by declaring the vote in favour and, therefore, the confidence of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group in this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u33	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u34	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law 30 April 2020, No 28, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Bellanova, Castaldi, Catalfo, Crimes, Di Piazza, Malpezzi, Margiotta, Merlo, Misiani, Patuanelli, Sileri and Turco. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Gasparri is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Gasparri. NISINI, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - 10.19 a.m. - 10.20 a.m. - at 10.20 a.m.) Senators say yes: Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Country, Casini, Castaldi, Castiello, Catalfo, Cattaneo, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Di Nicola, Garavini, Garruti, Donno Endrizzi, Ernani, Evangelista Faraone, Fede, Fedelini, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi Senators say no: Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balbon, Barachini, Barbar, Barboni, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Bongiorno, Bonino, Borghesi, Borgon, Bossi, Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrin, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Causin, Centinian, Ciampoli, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Bonis, Cangini, Cangini, Cantù, Cantù, Carbon, Casolati, Causin, Centin, Centin, Centiari, Ciampolilo, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Bondo, Canden, Canden, Canden, Canden, Canden, Canden, Canden, Cando, Can, Can, Can, Can, Can, Cando, Can, Can, Can, Cando, Can, Can, Cando, Can, Can, Can, Can, Can, Can, De Vecchi, Caots, Cas, Caves, Caots, Caots, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Caus, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cent, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas, Cas,,, Cas, Cent, Cas,,,,,, Cas, Cas, Cas,,,,,,,, F F F Fantetti, Fetti, Fetti,,,,,,,, Fetti,,,,,, Fantetti,, Fantetti, Fantetti, Fetti, Senators are abstaining: Durnwalder, Steger. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law 30 April 2020, No 28, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 285 Senators voting 285 Majority 142 Favorables 154 Contrari 129 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 28. I suspend the sitting until 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.46 a.m. and resumed at 11.35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u35	The next item is: "Information of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the videoconference of Members of the European Council scheduled for 19 June 2020" I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u36	Mr President, kind senators and senators, I am here because I believe it is necessary to provide Parliament with an update in view of the videoconference of the European Council on Friday 19 June concerning the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the so-called next generation EU which, as is well known, complements the components of the articulated European crisis response package, not to mention the massive, massive monetary measures put in place by the European Central Bank with different intensity. Even if it does not fall within the scope of this information, I confirm that the Government wants to be found ready for the appointment with the European financing instruments and already in these days has started a wide consultation with all the political, productive, social and cultural forces of the Country in order to elaborate a plan of relaunch from which the specific recovery plan that Italy will present in adhesion to the program next generation EU can be obtained later. When the Italian project is sufficiently complete, the Government will be obliged in Parliament to report on the contents, ready to accept proposals and suggestions. This government has never shunned and will never shun the confrontation with Parliament. Next Friday - I would like to say this - is a videoconference and, therefore, an informal meeting of the European Council of a purely consultative nature, but it has all the formal steps. Therefore, before the next European Council there will be all the formal steps and, on that occasion, the debate with Parliament will result in a formal vote. As I have said several times, the resources that will be made available by the European Union at the end of the negotiations cannot be managed by the government in office as its own treasure. We are absolutely convinced of this. These resources will constitute an important basis for financing the revival of the country. It is clear that this ambitious objective needs cooperation and sharing from all sides. Our country - this is our goal - must return to believing in itself and sharing common ambitious goals, beyond political divisions. Let's go back to the specific object of this information. The next meeting of the European Council will be held in telematic mode and will have to pave the way for a quality agreement on new instruments to support European economic recovery and on the next multiannual budget of the European Union. The formal proposal for a new multiannual financial framework by the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, is essential for the European Council to be able to take a vote and a final decision. For this reason, the meeting will have a consultative nature and will aim to bring out convergences and disagreements still existing between the Member States in order to prepare the next European Council in July. It is before this Council - as I anticipated - that I will return to Parliament to ask for your vote in support of a resolution indicating the position Italy will hold in Europe, also in the light of the formal proposal - then we will have it - of a new multiannual financial framework. Experience shows that European Council meetings lead to decisions that meet the challenge only if there is, even in the face of different positions and sensitivities, a working method based on the European spirit and constructive dialogue. We are also working in these hours to ensure that Europe does not disperse the credibility and political initiative that it has accumulated in recent months - let me stress this - also thanks to the decisive contribution of Italy. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, three weeks ago, presented proposals on next generation EU and the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2021-2027. These proposals are inspired by an awareness of the inevitable need for an extraordinary European response to an unprecedented crisis in the history of the Union. This is consistent with an approach that Italy - and I am proud to say so - has responsibly proposed on European tables since the first phase of the contagion by Covid-19. Over the last few months, we have worked hard to build on the understanding that the only possible and effective response to the damage caused by coronavirus is an ambitious European response that can actually give a strong shock to the economies of the continent, which are closely interdependent. The Italian effort, shared - you will remember - in a first phase from eight other Member States, has become at the European Council on 23 April a consensus of 27 on the recognition of the recovery fund as necessary and to work urgently - I quote - to overcome an extraordinary crisis, the dimensions of which have recently been confirmed also by the economic estimates of the most accredited international organizations and institutions in this sense (International Monetary Fund and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) and also European (I think of the European Commission's spring economic forecasts). President von der Leyen's proposal confirms that the European Commission has not missed the date with history, just as the European Central Bank, which has put in place a great deal of firepower to protect the European economies, has not failed to do so. In the coming weeks, the Council will be called on to meet with history. The European Commission's proposal on next generation EU and MFF 2021-2027 is a good starting point - very good - of which I share the logic and the spirit, as I have seen the Franco-German proposal as a positive step in Italy's desire for an ambitious European response, meeting the needs and expectations of the citizens of our continent. In order to restart our economy, it is essential - and I do not tire of repeating it to my European counterparts too - to achieve the primary objective of consensus as soon as possible on the decision to launch next generation EU, because a late decision would in itself be a failure. The political decision now before the European Council is a historic objective both at European and national level in response to the worst continental crisis for over seventy years. We cannot afford to reproduce the liturgy that we know well about the decisions of the European Councils which, particularly on budgetary issues, require long negotiations which almost always lead to downward compromises. The tens of thousands of European victims of the Covid-19 do not deserve it. Families, young people, businesses and citizens who are facing the social and economic consequences do not deserve it. It is for this reason that I believe at a moral time, but also political (and, of course, the urgency of the numbers on economic developments) that all Member States are called upon to make a high-profile decision. The prerequisite for achieving this objective is that the Heads of State and Government are motivated by the principles of responsibility and solidarity. Our position in this respect is that we do not depart from the Commission's proposal on the volume and composition of grants (subsidies) and that the principle of extraordinary and long-term financing through the common European debt remains firm. Moreover - I have already mentioned this - the agreement will have to arrive quickly, in order to allow, after the necessary approvals to the European Parliament and the national parliaments, a rapid start of the implementation of the next generation EU and the next multiannual financial framework. What is at stake at European level is the maintenance of the Union's economy and social issue; it is the functioning of the single market itself, one of the cornerstones, such as Schengen, of a united Europe; it is the possibility, still, of making European economies resilient in the face of similar crises, starting with the fearful second wave of the Covid-19, which we are all committed to preventing and containing, strong in the experience already gained; it is also in the opportunity to win Europe the challenge of the future in the green transition, the European green deal, and the digital one. It is also crucial that the orientation of next generation EU is preserved in support of countries, regions and sectors most affected by the crisis by Covid-19. It is therefore necessary, in this perspective, to maintain the distinction between the allocation criteria for next generation EU instruments, aimed at recovering from the crisis from Covid-19, and instead the allocation criteria for instruments, for ordinary cohesion funds. These considerations will continue to support them with determination at the European table, even in response to the different sensitivities of other Member States, in the belief, however, that the European Council should be able - as it did on 23 April last - to confirm that Europe is a community of values which, consistently, pursues common interests. In the European approach I hope, I believe that a constructive spirit from all the Member States is also necessary in the discussions on the new multiannual financial framework. The Italian Government shares the cornerstones of the Commission's proposal, which aims to help make the European Union stronger and even more oriented towards the objectives of a sustainable and competitive future such as green deal and digital, preserving policies such as cohesion and the common agricultural policy, which remain fundamental to us as well. In this context, concrete progress should be made on new own resources: an inescapable objective if we want the European Union not only to emerge from this crisis but also to be able to deal with further emergencies of such a large scale in time. The debate on the multiannual financial framework (MFF) will also include the privileges, in the jargon, for a few Member States, which we have defined as anachronistic since the negotiations prior to the crisis by Covid-19. We understand the high importance of this for some Member States, in terms of national policy, but we want to believe that this sensitivity is accompanied by openness and flexibility in relation to next generation EU by those same Member States. A defence of privileges, combined with a closure on next generation EU, would be unacceptable, undermining the opportunity for economic recovery to countries, regions and sectors most affected by an unprecedented crisis and hitting the many workers and entrepreneurs who look to Europe to receive protection for the present, their future and their families. The positions of the Member States in the Council are still distant on a number of points, despite the considerable progress made in recent months. Let us remember that when Italy proposed a European fund dedicated to recovery financed with common debt, many here in our country - let us be frank - accused us of being visionaries. In these weeks we are not discussing whether this fund will be there or whether we are discussing the extraordinary issue of common debt for its financing: these are now taken for granted. We are, however, discussing obviously equally important issues: the size of the fund and the allocation criteria. It is a success and it is also a success for our country, which has insisted on indicating this path immediately in Europe and, in the end, convinced European partners, even the most reckless and suspicious, that this was the right direction for the Union. It was a continuous and patient political and diplomatic work, with a regained international credibility and reliability. The objective of a high-level political decision also includes a strong national value, as well as a European one. Responsibility and solidarity must also be put into practice by European governments in their respective countries. Relaunching growth and work in the continent's economy is only possible if lessons are learned from the current crisis. A broad and profound reform effort is needed, capable of taking advantage of the historic opportunity of the European response to the crisis, in order to address problems and problems that, for too long, have prevented the Italian economy from becoming resilient in the face of large-scale shocks. We have had to fight an unprecedented shock, which has resulted in very high human costs, but also very high social and economic costs. Italy is finally struggling to get out of it, but we cannot afford to return to the previous status quo, before this crisis. Italy, for over twenty years, has struggled to keep pace with other advanced economies. Our country reduces growth rates of gross product and productivity, which are below, almost stable, the European average and has suffered much more, compared to other European countries, the consequences of the financial crisis of 2008, as well as that of sovereign debts a few years later. The experience of the courageous response to the health emergency posed by coronavirus, of the resilience demonstrated by many public but also private economic sectors, as well as the exceptional test passed by all our fellow citizens are the same levers that will allow to restart the Italian economy on new bases that ensure a rapid recovery and, at the same time, a new model of development that overcomes the delays and removes the obstacles of the old. The decisions of the European Council will allow additional important economic resources to be put in place to strengthen public investment in Italy, which are at a much lower level than the capacity of other European countries. We are aware that we will have to accompany these projects with an ambitious reform path, indispensable to give a better future to our country and our children. The government is cohesive. We work together united above all by one thing: trust in Italy, the hope that we feel placed in us by Italians and we cannot disappoint them. I conclude by saying that the European Council will also discuss the state of the art of the negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom on future relations, after four negotiating sessions and the high-level meeting of the EU institutions' summits with British Prime Minister Johnson, which took place on 15 June. As you know, negotiations are under way for an agreement on future relations, before the links between the European Union and the United Kingdom are finally dissolved at the end of the current transitional period, which is due to take place on 31 December. I believe that an ambitious agreement is even more important now, in the light of the pandemic crisis that has hit both the European Union and the United Kingdom hard. Italy continues and will continue to support the negotiating efforts of the chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, to protect primarily our citizens and our businesses, with the aim of closing, by the end of the year, an understanding, with all the difficulties we are facing, which reflects the depth of relations and the balance of trade between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The videoconference of the European Council will include the usual information of Chancellor Merkel and President Macron on the state of implementation of the Minsk agreements. The information responds to the need, which Italy has always claimed, to have a political discussion between leaders before proceeding to the six-monthly renewal of sectoral economic sanctions against the Russian Federation, whose next deadline is set - I remember - for 31 July. We want to avoid automatism of any kind. It remains a priority for Italy to work together with our European partners to promote the full implementation of the Minsk agreements, the objective of which is the instrument of sanctions. Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, the reputation and a better future of Europe and its Member States are at stake in recent weeks, which, in the framework of the Treaties, play a fundamental role. This is the time when the greatest European unity must prevail for the supreme good of its pillars, from the single market to Schengen, to the social and economic protection of the citizens of the continent. This is the time to act, in a spirit of full cohesion, also at national level, so that this crisis does not bring Italy the double damage of seeing it lose the economic challenge of the European recovery and that, perhaps even more difficult, of reforming some traditional critical issues, thus finally giving way to an economic system whose excellences have been too often hindered, or obscured, by particularistic or familiaristic logics. United in Europe, in order to protect society and the economy of the continent; cohesive in Italy, in order to seize immediately, in full, the opportunity that Europe offers to itself, supporting the countries most affected by the Covid-19: it is with this European spirit that I intend to participate in the videoconference, on 19 June, of the European Council. I hope that this spirit will characterize the Italian political debate at this most crucial stage for the future generation of the European Union. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u37	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have outlined this morning before Parliament, the House and then the Senate a descriptive picture of a negotiation process which is still under way. Colleagues, the first point is method, but you know that the method is often substance. And I believe that Parliament's centrality is nourished by method. In recent days the opposition has called for a parliamentary vote, which I consider to be sacrosanct, but it is right that the parliamentary vote should come to the end of the negotiation process. At the end of the negotiation process, we in Parliament will have to decide what instruments we want to use. It is clear, in fact, that at this moment, while the negotiations are under way, we, also because of a negotiating problem, cannot hang ourselves today in making commitments that the country must take after. It's a matter of logic. Therefore, frankly I do not understand, except in terms of abstract political dispute - for charity, it is always understandable - a sort of conflict today in the Chambers on this point. The President-in-Office of the Council was clear: he said that the negotiations are under way and that he will probably try, on behalf of Italy too, to tear something out of the ongoing negotiation process. Then we will decide which instruments to adopt. Personally - I say this to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - I believe that it is the result of unacceptable ideological cages, for example, to bind us not to use the ESM funds. I believe that it is inevitable that Italy will do so; these funds will serve to modernise our health system. I therefore believe that it is inevitable that Italy should go along with this, but we will decide that when we see the range of instruments on which to make the political choices that Parliament must make. This crisis has cost Europe thousands of lives and could lead to two effects: either the death of Europe or its rebirth. In the face of all the sovereignisms that we have seen in recent months and years, I have always felt that the only sovereignism to really draw from was European sovereignism. I believe in European sovereignism, because I think it is not possible even for Germany to proceed in scattered order, which of all European countries is inevitably the strongest and most structured. Let's be honest: Germany was the country that also in this situation gave a much better proof, considering the number of deaths and seen how the health system and economic structures reacted. And yet, they can't go on alone either. Sovereignism, to which at least part of this Parliament feels bound, is the European one. In the face of this dramatic situation, I believe that Europe has, has been and exists. There's no other way to run. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the Franco-German proposal and also, in particular, for Mrs Merkel's attitude, which is inevitably the leader of this Europe. We have criticized her many times, but - let us be honest - before the German Constitutional Court, Merkel kept the point and went on: this is a very important fact. [[Applause]] Colleagues, can we sincerely marvel at the so-called frugal countries? We can legitimately contest the approach of the frugal countries. We contest them and the Italian Government, Count and who for him, challenged them and did them well. It is a selfish approach for us, but I want to tell you one thing: can we sincerely be surprised that a number of countries, in front of an Italy that pays 180 million interest per day, have doubts? Let us be clear: the European process is not a gala lunch, it is not a matter of courtesies. At that table everyone defends their own interests; it has always been so and always will be so, but it has been so in all the constituent processes of new entities. Isn't there any conflicting dynamic between our regions? There is. Is there no conflicting dynamic among American states? There is. There cannot fail to be a conflicting dynamic even among the European States. And we must not only demand and demand for the Mediterranean states what we rightly claim, but also take on the problems of others and try to understand how to reassure them. Some people argue that this money is given with a bond, that of reforms, or with another bond, that of concrete projects. But, ladies and gentlemen, these constraints must coincide with our choices. In fact, if we take this money today without binding ourselves to reforms and serious projects, it would mean that we are definitely out of any possibility of hanging up those growth and productivity rates to which reference has been made. If we thought that these resources would be distributed in the rain, it would certainly not be the Austrian Chancellor or the Dutch Chancellor who would be concerned: our children and Italian citizens should be concerned. Colleagues, let us then try to bring things back to the right dimension. The Atlantic choice of Italy and Europe has been and has lived on the American intuition of the Marshall plan. Today the European choice, which we see strengthened, is based on what must be a great European plan. Look at that, until a few months ago, talking about extraordinary issues of common debt securities was heresy, while today it is on the agenda. Today (let us never forget), alongside European instruments such as the Sure, the recovery fund and the ESM, we have a European Central Bank that has expressed a firepower that has allowed us to place our state bonds without having some sort of noose around our neck, which would have already delivered our country to condemnation. I do not think that Europe is just the good things I have referred to. Of course, there are delays, contradictions and inadequacy, and I see that in recent years we have always manifested it; governments have also manifested it. It is not that the Government Count II is the beginning of the end of the world: before there was the Government Count I and there were other political forces; everyone has always alternated the faith in Europe to the fact of negotiation, to the contestation of delays. However, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this time we also have to express a satisfaction, if the negotiations go through (because this must always be said). If the negotiation goes into effect in the terms that are being foreshadowed, we will feel that this will be a success. For Italy? For the Count Government? Excuse me, but I believe that it would be a success for Europe, for the Italian Parliament, for the majority, but also for the opposition, because I do not believe that in the benches that are in front of me there are people who do not have the same concerns as we do. We all have the same concerns: that of linking Italy to a Europe that exists, perhaps throwing its heart beyond the obstacle. Some say that Europe does nothing about illegal immigration. Of course, colleagues, geopolitics has changed. In the Mediterranean, after the American retreat, the actors are different from the past: they are the Russians, they are the Turks. All the more reason for Europe to be there, together, not only with economic or financial policy, but also with the common foreign and defence policy, throwing its heart beyond the obstacle of the Federation of the United States of Europe: this is the dream for me. It is not a utopia, because utopia is something that always foreshadows an unrealizability; for me it is something to which we must strive, and we must do it for our children, for all of us, for our country, but also for others, because united Europe is a wealth for all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u39	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Minister for European Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the widely supported speech by the President-in-Office of the Council and that of President Casini, whom we, like Italy Viva, share from A to Z, allow me to try to make a different contribution than usual, in view of the very important appointment on Friday. Today, Mr President, the examination of maturity begins, the maturity in the presence. About half a million of our fellow countrymen return to the classes after the delicate affair of the last three months. It is the generation of 2001: let's say that he has lived an odyssey in space in recent months, failing to succeed and unable to return to the end of his school commitment, as he probably would have wanted and as perhaps was his right. Today they face a maturity that makes them dream, but that perhaps for someone is a nightmare. However, it is the certainty that that generation becomes an adult, as Paul Giordano, an important writer, said very well in recent days. The maturity is this: the beginning of the exams that never end. From this point of view, in giving a great embrace and a thought to these fellow countrymen, we should take an example from them and say that today another examination of maturity begins in the presence, which concerns the entire European ruling class: it concerns you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and your Government; all of us, senators and senators, me and the entire ruling class of our continent. Let's say things as they are, in fact: many people tell us that the virus will make us better, but I have some doubts, in the sense that this sociological, psychological and character analysis we will do it at the end; it may be so, for goodness sake, but surely the virus has cleared international geopolitics and changed Europe. If we do not say this, we are not consistent, and I also address the oppositions, who will have to change their model of action in the coming months, because the virus has changed the language of politics and the rules of geopolitics. Forgive me, but I invite you to try flashbacking and rewinding the tape four months ago. It has changed a lot, for example in the United States of America, where four months ago we imagined a victory in the coach of the outgoing President and for various reasons the world seems changed; it strikes me that with the privates we go into space and then a man, an American citizen, dies, because he cannot breathe, crushed by the knee of a policeman (and it happens in the United States of America, who saw the first black President). One of the most beautiful considerations that President Obama has given us in many informal moments, in which many of us participated, is that history zigzags and we cannot imagine a path always uniform and unified. It has changed a lot in China: four months ago there was talk of trade, 5G and that's it; today it is invested by remarkable elements of reflection. It changed a lot in Brazil, where the Bolsonaro model failed, not only on the coronavirus. It is changing a lot in India, one of the countries most affected in recent weeks and that even, until a few weeks ago, a month ago, saw an absolutely strong premiership. As President Casini last recalled, it is changing a lot in the Mediterranean, not necessarily for the better, where there is always a stronger Russian leadership, consistent with the design of soft power that President Putin has always had, but to which we add a Turkish intervention that must make us and NATO reflect. In this scenario, the European Union has struck a blow. I say this to the sovereigns: you must recognize that this has happened. It would be interesting to ask - and I say this by looking at the Minister for European Affairs, with whom we have repeatedly considered the point - whether it was also the result of Brexit, which was in all the newspapers four months ago: perhaps, if London had still been in the European Union, we could not have done everything that has been done and that you, Mr President, did with your colleagues. It's a paradox, an interesting contrast to think about, but the central point is that the world is changing. So, do we want to discuss MES or not MES? Spoiler: I am for the yes at the ESM, but this debate is infinitely smaller than the real one that Europe needs today, focused on what its role - and therefore Italy - will be in the next ten years. The 1920s began: roaring, according to the American films of the last century, although in reality up to a certain point, because they were those of fascism and fascism in Europe and of the great depression in America; even if we go back to the 19th century, in the 1920s the liberal movements established themselves in a certain season of history. I mean, the 1920s are always dangerous and fascinating. What kind of twenties do we imagine for Europe? On this I do not want to be Cassandra or the prophet, but there are elements that we should analyze: I think that the pandemic was a dramatic test and that we will certainly have to be careful and watch out for the second waves, with everything we have said, without the psychological terrorism of those who threaten 151,000 places in intensive care, when they are less than 200; but surely we need caution. The next pandemic, the next global crisis - let me say this by hoping to be wrong - will not be a health crisis, but it will be a crisis linked to cyberattack, cybersecurity; a subject that is largely underestimated in the international debate. If we bet on Industry 4.0 - and we do well to do so - a cyberattack is enough to change the story of an agri-food product that is transformed or a piece of the automotive. These themes see a Europe as a protagonist or see Europe as it was until four months ago, on the margins, at the window, as a spectator. This for me is the point of discussion on which I dream, I hope and hope that our country will make its commitment and voice heard. The world of the coming years is indeed a world of robotics, artificial intelligence and innovation, but it is also a world in which we have discovered that smart working, which is beautiful, that it works and that we have done well to implement and that we will implement, is not enough, because the school cannot be content with distance teaching, it needs to be community. [[Applause]] As for the companies - appreciating that you in the general states open to the confrontation with important managers and entrepreneurs - I spoke with an important CEO who told me that it is useless to continue to tell about the smart working, because the company is first and foremost a community. It's okay to enhance your smart working because it reduces traffic and increases your digital bet, but you need more. In all this, I think Europe has struck a blow. He did it with the European Central Bank, he did it with the recovery fund, on which we confirm our commitment, he did it with the SURE programme (I would like to remind you of Pier Carlo Padoan's commitment to this in the last parliamentary term) he did it with all the various points that have been the subject of your discussion up to now and which will certainly continue. Allow me to send a grateful thought not only to all the leaders, but also to the women leaders of this continent. [[Applause]] ; Angela Merkel, but also Christine Lagarde and Ursula von der Leyen have shown that when women lead certain institutions they play a role that in some cases is far superior to that of men. However, we have a problem today; our problem is to be consequent with what we have said, that is, to be able to carry out an examination of maturity in our home, unlocking for example - as you have repeatedly said and we are on your side - the infrastructure plan. I acknowledge that in recent weeks and months many of the commitments that you have made are becoming a reality, with difficulty - as it is natural that it is - starting with the very important family act for us. However, the basic bet is to have a vision of Europe. On this point I will end, not wanting to provoke our friends of the right, but recognizing that there are two right now, not in Italy, but in the world. It is an objective fact and see that these two rights confront each other for noble reasons, not for futile reasons. Those of us who love American democracy know that the constituent element of the great history of the American right was to export freedom; it was true for Bush, but it was also true for Ronald Reagan when, in front of the Berlin wall, he held the hammer and said "throw down this wall, Mr Gorbachev." Today the wall - some of Massimo Recalcati's reflections on this - has become instead the symbol of a new Europe and a new world, the wall in Mexico, but also the wall of Orban, who was also one of those of the European popular right who dreamed of overcoming the vision of the past and freedom. Here is a point, then, and I really finish on this: the coronavirus has shown us that the sovereignist world, brought to the extreme consequences of the masters at home, of no immigrant coming, of a blocked globalization, is a world that is sad and is not suitable for Italy. [[Applause.]] The real bet that we face as Italy is to bet on the world of globalization, on openness, on the ability to look to the future. If this excites you, I am proud of it, because the first to realize that you must change the line, friends of the League, it is you, because what has happened in these months proves that your sovereign dream collides with reality. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we wish you every success in your videoconference. Take with you the children of 2001, because for the children of 2001 Europe is what is called home. Mr President, I conclude with a beautiful text by David Foster Wallace, addressed as a greeting to young people who reach the graduation goal. The text tells of two young fishes who are in the sea and proceeding quietly. He passes an old fish in the opposite direction, greets them and asks them: how is the water? The two small fishes, accustomed to growing in the water, say nothing, greet and then one of the two more in there asks the other: what is water? Mr President, for the new generation there is no question of what Europe is like, because Europe is our home. We live up to the dreams of the generation of 2001. You must stand up for yourself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We're with her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u41	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government, colleagues, the Brothers of Italy, as a patriotic and responsible force, during the war unleashed by the Covid has never deserted. We took part in the meeting of the royal chamber and in the meetings at Palazzo Chigi; in this Chamber we voted on the deficit overruns and we drew up hundreds of amendments for each measure, always in the interests of the Italians. Today, Mr President, the benches of the Brothers of Italy Group are empty, here in the Senate as in the House. Brothers of Italy chose to stay outside the Chamber as a sign of protest, a protest that I want to explain clearly. We are protesting against your bullying imposition of changing the timetable for the work of this House. You, in view of the videoconference of the European Council on 19 June, did not want to keep the planned and necessary communication, but - let's say - you can manage with mere information. What is the substantial technical difference between communication and information? It is a simple but serious difference, because the information prevents the submission of resolutions and therefore allows us to escape the vote of Parliament and to get rid of that sort of annoyance towards parliamentary confrontation. But not just that. Information is also a way of not highlighting and not exploding the contradictions that stir up its majority, on divisive themes, but also decisive as the ESM, which for Brothers of Italy is a monstrous European trap. Today this umpteenth mortification of Parliament's prerogatives not only weakens the institutions, but also weakens you. I would say, abusing an expression, that the king is naked. You are taking part in the European Council without a mandate on what Italy wants or should do in Europe. And that is a lot, because we are discussing the multiannual financial framework, monetary measures, financing instruments, as you yourself mentioned in your speech. There is an article - which I remember, but which you know better than I do - in Article 5 of Law No 234 of 2012 which provides that for "every initiative aimed at concluding agreements between the Member States of the European Union that have significant consequences for public finance (...) the Government ensures that the position represented by Italy in the negotiation phase of the agreements takes into account the acts of direction adopted by the Chambers." The title of this article is: "Consultation of Chambers on agreements in financial or monetary matters" (you certainly know it). We are not surprised by this lack of respect for articles and rules on the part of a Government born without popular legitimacy, which is proceeding with urgent decrees, which brandishes the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers as sabres; the latter are abusive administrative acts (we discussed them last week), to which it subsequently gives legislative coverage. I also add this compulsive appeal to the vote of confidence: Parliament is now voting only in this way and therefore cannot amend any measures. Mr President, there is also the provision of an army of task forces and what you have called - I was struck by the definition - of individual brilliant minds - there are also here; I assure you - that they are waiting for you now at Villa Doria Pamphili. This task force army is almost as if it were some sort of government government and I will not call it party structure or, at least, not party structure yet. This democratic vulnus also contributes to the systematic compression of parliamentary minorities, which are called and respected as oppositions, whose proactive attempts and commitment to drafting proposals and amendments have been systematically rejected or rejected. At least, therefore, spare us the false invitation on television and in all non-collaboration venues, implying that the oppositions are defeatist and obtuse, while you and your ministers well know that we have worked hard, with solutions that can be shared or not, to identify and propose recipes in the exclusive interest of the nation. You, Mr President, excuse me, but you avoid the parliamentary dialectic and do so while organizing ten days of States General, where Italy - I do not say it myself; I read it in the Republic of Italy - hides itself from Italy and closes in the enclosure of power with the autocelebrative choreography of a man only in command. The General States were opened with the virtual presence of representatives of the European Community, the ECB and the International Monetary Fund. It's, you know, the old troika family. Perhaps they will be given directions and certainly not if they are given by this Parliament, by the minority, and I dare say that perhaps they are not even given by their own majority because they cannot on the ESM, on the recovery fund, on the post-pandemic economic measures and on everything that will affect the fate of the nation. You are independent of Parliament, Italy and social reality to pursue a reality set. I acknowledge that the General States have a historical tradition: they were inaugurated in the Risorgimento, continued in post-unitarian Italy and subsequently in many events in the history of this country. In this moment of emergency, however, he should rather have listened to the company instead of illustrious guests. The General States should have invited those who have been waiting for the Integration Fund since March, the 600 euro bonus; they should have invited all those entrepreneurs who cannot access the credit, those who closed the shop by decree and failed to open. It should have invited tour operators, but also hairdressers, beauticians, artisans, professionals and traders. In a word, he should have invited the Italian people and listened to him. It is also for this reason that we have not come to make the number to this red carpet of the ancient Aurelia, to the "villa of the famous", the VIPs and those brilliant minds, that - let me say - have chosen to live outside of Italy and then come to tell the Italians, the families and the enterprises how they should live and survive, while for us they are looking for battens and tired, actions from "Great brother" tax and, perhaps, an asset or some operation of vampiraggio of the savings of the Italians. They come to explain perhaps the future that will come, while about 50 million Italians wonder about this future of the country, but for many of them, President, tomorrow is far away. They'd like to know how to survive today. If you, Mr President, really want to confront the positions - as you say and invoke everywhere except here - you have to do so in the institutional fora and in the Chambers because the General States of the Italian Republic are Parliament. The democracy of the popular vote, that mechanism of expression of the consensus that you avoid, avoid, but that pursues you and that, sooner or later, will reach you and will judge you. You will remember your roboating statements, economic promises and disappointed expectations, announcements of firepower and decrees of immediate liquidity in the pockets of the Italians. A virtual government storytelling, which does not correspond to reality, which does not correspond to the heart, the flesh of the Italians and which represents, in a plastic and heavy way, the gap between government and society, between an abstract policy and the people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u43	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u44	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have said well in your information that we have achieved a result, which you have described as a success, which many, even in this House some time ago, said was impossible. The result was not to continue to ask for Europe to put a policy in place, but to have the opportunity, today, to discuss the modalities of an instrument like recovery fund, which, not to make triumphalisms, is definitely a result that we can ascribed to the work of our country and to the commitment of the Government. This, Mr President, for a very simple reason: we have said to ourselves, even in the last discussions, in view of the European Councils, that Europe, in the face of what was happening to us, but which was coming to all other countries, had a historical responsibility. This responsibility was to show that it was not only a set of conflicting interests between them, but that it had the opportunity to regain somehow the feelings and hearts of European citizens, saying that Europe was there, that it made a huge effort to support countries in difficulty, but also to have a capacity, all together, like Europe, to react and to put in place a policy, a project, a plan. There were many sceptics, whom we heard earlier and who will also be affected in this debate, who said that this would not happen, that Europe would eventually also be the victim of absolutely inadequate choices. I am thinking, for example, of how the sovereign debt crisis was also managed. Today, instead, we are in a different condition and this we must, in some way, recognize it to the work that Italy has done, certainly supporting the Franco-German proposal, certainly working with the other countries, certainly putting in place a diplomatic capacity also. It is, however, a result; a result that must be consolidated, because it is not obvious, a result that will, in some way, have to find a possibility of realization. We are talking about an instrument like the recovery fund that, at least in the forecasts, gives the opportunity to put in the field of imposing resources. The other element, however, which is also the subject of the European Council, which was announced on 27 May by the President of the Commission, is the next generation EU. It is certainly another absolutely fundamental point, which tells us what, Mr Conte? You know perfectly well, because I have been insisting on this for a very long time. We can't get out of the crisis. Let's get it over with. Coronavirus has once again taught us that one of the causes of difficult situations, including the impact of the epidemic, is this model of development. What does Europe say to us, including putting in place the next generation of the EU? That today there is an absolute necessity to accompany with force and to accelerate on the green transition, because from the crisis you cannot get out with the old recipes. If we think that now we are going back to the way we were before, that a tragic parenthesis is closed and that everything can return as before, we are making an incredible mistake. And I find it incredible that exponents, also of the enterprise, in our country, can think that this is the model to follow, perhaps with a form of statism that, however, acts only as intervention of the State, without condition, and that only benefits them. This is something that we and the entire ruling class of this country need to reflect on. Today we and Europe have a chance and an opportunity, which is not only to show - at last - that Europe exists, that Europe's dream can go ahead and that it is recovering from the mistakes of the past, but also to say: let us speed up the transition, because we can be the first continent in the world to do this operation and to recover from the political and geopolitical point of view. Being able to guide the transition and be the first to put in place the policies that will lead us to climate neutrality means having and asserting also a political and economic leadership (the comparison is therefore good and I do not understand why the general states, listening and consulting so many people and the involvement of all the actors should not be good). In order to do this, we must be very quick, ready and concrete for the implementation of a plan that is not only aimed at obtaining the resources (which the European Union will give us on specific projects) and at realising our projects. The reform plan that President Casini talked about is - as far as I am concerned - a priority, because it strongly connects us with the European project, giving us the opportunity to do that modernization operation (I am referring to the green and digital transition) that can allow our country to solve the many problems that are not there today, but - he said well - for many years and to respond to the many social issues that are before us. We know that the crisis is profound. We have always talked - and I hope that the European Union will talk more and more about this - about a just transition, referring to this not to a balanced or moderate transition, but - I repeat - to a just transition. Indeed, the green transition must enable us to respond strongly to employment and social problems and ensure that, as we said at the beginning of this crisis, no one is left behind. The programme (which is also important to discuss in the key points, as outlined by the President of the European Commission, regarding the new generation of the EU) is therefore to speed up the transition and to ensure that there is support for companies to speed up conversion and that the process is speeded up. I'll say one more thing. Mr President, we are a strange country. While I and many others in Europe are passionate about how to be quick and concrete to activate the recovery fund and what projects (one of the assets is the green transition) as well as about the new generation of the EU, in this country it seems that the only passion is to discuss the ESM, and to blame each other on ideological positions (also a strange way of discussing). I have had the opportunity to confront my Spanish friends, who do not have our own debate within them because they say that today we must be ready to speed up and implement the recovery fund, then we will discuss and see what is needed. This is an absolutely realistic way of thinking. On the contrary, we are discussing something that already exists: the recovery fund must be realized, while the ESM, as we know, already exists and is part of the Treaties. My views on this, I believe, are quite clear and also very distrustful, but the current debate does not help our country and indeed weakens it; instead, it would be appropriate to discuss what can give us the push and on which we have not yet won in Europe, because we have not definitively acquired these points. There are still resistances from the so-called frugal countries, selfish resistances, and you have rightly spoken of privileges. Therefore, not only do we confirm our support and trust in moving forward on this kind of negotiation, but I believe that the whole country - and our debate should serve this - supports it. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as we have asked Europe to put aside selfish interests in the name not only of abstract ideals, but of values that hold the peoples of Europe together, before you here, in this House, I cannot but raise the question of truth and justice for Mr Regeni. [[Applause]] I believe, Mr President, that, as our Constitution states, we must be a country that not only carries out the defence of one of our citizens, as was Giulio Regeni, but above all that does not allow the world to say that we have put economic interests in the sale of arms in search of truth and justice for Regeni. I am therefore convinced - and we will all support you on this - that there will be the possibility not only of rethinking the sale of armaments, but even more of sustaining with force and finally getting from Egypt truth and justice for Regens [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, authoritative colleagues, our way of living these days is particularly complicated and contradictory. On the one hand, the data on the health emergency support us, encourage us to move forward, to look to the future with a little more optimism; on the other, there is the awareness, increasingly consistent looking around, of the difficult economic crisis that our country and probably the whole world will have to go through. Then there is also fear of a relapse, which we obviously hope will not happen. At the moment, the work of the institutions, ours, yours, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are particularly important, as is the way in which the institutions can cooperate. That is why I thank you for being here today, for doing the information to the House and the Senate of the Republic, for having felt the duty to keep Parliament informed even when it was not due. In fact, since there is no vote, since the European Council in digital form in which you will participate is still preparing for final decisions and we hope to be positive for our country that will be taken in July, you were not obliged to be here and I thank you on behalf of the whole Italian Parliament to keep Members informed and therefore all Italy [[Applause]] , on how difficult, complex negotiations are going forward, where Italy has already achieved much. There is another reason for optimism in this respect. Today, all the political forces, including those that have declared themselves very hostile to the European Union in the past, speak of Europe as a must to find the right solutions for the dramatic crisis we are going through. Maybe it took the pandemic. It's sad to say that. We have trained ourselves, we have grown up in the dream and ideal of Europe. Today this Europe is close to us and showing it to us by concrete acts, without giving gifts. It is a daily battle, a difficult confrontation for you, Mr President, and for your ministers to lead. I would like to thank Minister Gualtieri, Minister Amendola, Minister Di Maio, who are close to her in this delicate passage. We want to certify the strength, the determination, the unity of the majority with respect to this passage and also the perplexity with respect to some attitudes of the opposition forces. Yesterday we attended a complicated Conference of the Leaders, we voted on the calendar because we pretended to vote and to have communications when not only they were not due, but they were not planned, given the nature of the meeting. But why this? For the need and the will of some, perhaps, to make us appear weaker, to make us collide on the ESM. The ESM issues have largely been defined. We in the Democratic Party have no difficulty talking to you, talking to our colleagues in the majority, speaking to Italy as a whole. We believe that the government has done a good job on the ESM and has achieved a lot. We are satisfied that the ESM today costs nothing, because it has negative rates, has important goals, especially for our country, compared to the health system, but more generally than national health, the ability of our country to intervene on the level of health, the quality of our services. It is available, it will assess Parliament, we will evaluate it together and we push the Government further to do better, because some colleagues, even in the majority, have the legitimate doubt that in the nature of that type of financing there can be hidden conditional mechanisms that involve some risk to the country. Those doubts must be eliminated from the government's burden of doing so. We certainly want all the instruments made available by Europe to be used exclusively in the interests of our national community, our country and in the specific case in the interest of investments on health. [[Applause.]] You have made this clear in these days and weeks: Parliament will then be called upon to decide. The desire, however, was to divide not only the majority on a subject which, among other things, is not even on the agenda, but also to divide the opposition, which has very different positions on the subject in itself. This was the contribution that he argued about in this House, for which some political forces have even symbolically abandoned the House. Mine is an appeal, I keep doing it, even though I may have remained the last of the Mohicans: we need a united country [[Applause]] , with a majority and an opposition that have the moral strength and determination to make an effective contribution from their legitimate positions, with their own legitimate modalities and with the programmatic points that are considered. It is a mistake for me that the opposition forces have renounced their contribution to the so-called General States. You see, Mr President, the way, the form, everything is questionable. It is not acceptable, however, that today, when we all say loudly that this dramatic situation can turn into a great opportunity for renewal, change and reform for our country, it is denied not the opportunity, but the need for a confrontation with the country in its entirety. It is wrong who escapes this confrontation, who renounces to give, in a phase like this, his own contribution, even in dissonance with the lines of the majority and the government itself. I, for example, am one of those who, after all, have appreciated the even rigid positions of a President of an important category, that of Italian industrialists, who come and present their ideas, on which we can legitimately disagree, but it is right to listen to them, to understand the contributions of everyone. This should have been done by the opposition forces, which we know have different sensibilities, but we are sorry that those who aim to make noises, to make news and renounce to make an active contribution to the future of our country, Mr President. [[Applause]] After that, we want a strong government, which will go head-to-head, as it has been in recent months, in the fora in which the future of our continent is decided. As I said, we've achieved a lot. All the European authorities, so challenged - those that someone wanted to abolish and did not consider as partners for the future - have had very clear signals. Let's think about what the ECB is doing and the support it's giving us. Where would we be today, if the ECB had not made certain decisions to help our rates, to buy our securities? Where would we be today? How much more would we pay each year in interest to issue our securities? Where would our public debt be? What are the prospects for our workers, the difficulties, the integrated funds? I am thinking of the SURE project and many other projects on which we are building the future. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to appeal to you, on the internal and international fronts. On the internal front, we ask you to make a great effort to align yourself in languages and in ways with our Municipalities, with our Regions, with our enterprises, with our trade unions, by presenting simple, complete, clear proposals that can be put on the field immediately very quickly and that speak the same language as Europe. Then we ask you to do the same thing in Europe: to create simplification mechanisms, so that our planning, what we are all putting in place together with you, can be immediately effective in the interests of our country. Mr President, authoritative representatives of the Government, the Democratic Party will play its part, within the Government, in parliamentary classrooms and in the country. A final appeal for all political forces is to a greater sense of responsibility, of attachment to our country. Finally, one last appeal is to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: keep Italy's interest high, it is doing it well. Today there is the biggest bet for our future and for future generations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u47	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u48	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have never strayed from a well-made appeal. However, I would remind my fellow Leader of the Democratic Party that, as the Americans say, it takes two to dance the tango. [[Applause]] But, when a hand is stretched out and unfortunately not gathered on the other side, it is very difficult to establish a principle of collaboration. With regard to principles, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are very pleased to see you here in Parliament, a Parliament with which you have a somewhat transhumant relationship, passing through us, a bit like in a mail station, as you used to do with carriages that changed horses. [[Applause]] You know? He comes here, listens, doesn't listen, doesn't decide, doesn't make us decide, doesn't let us vote. [[Applause]] We must have the courage to make Parliament express itself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and please - it is very well, even without a mask - do not believe that we do not use Europe and that we can really make it pass the hoax that there is an informal Council of the European Union. [[Applause]] There are no informal Councils of the European Union, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. There are the Councils of the European Union which are interlocutors, multisteps and phases, in order to achieve a result through different procedural paths. But the formality or informality of a Council of the European Union is the veil of Maya behind which you are hiding, because you are afraid of the vote of Parliament. [[Applause.]] Let's face it very clearly, because there are too many files that would divide its majority: the ESM (we are not afraid to pronounce this acronym), Autostrade, Alitalia, the former Ilva, tax, justice, the code of procurement, infrastructure. These are all tools, floating barriers that the government cannot overcome. But they are also the swamp in which Italy is sinking. [[Applause.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we need authoritative guidance. [[Applause]] I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he can accept and face the challenge of these dramatic moments, which he is able to come here, without fear, with courage, without hiding behind veils that are always ripped apart in this House by the principle of reality and truth. [[Applause.]] We need you to ask this Parliament for a high, clear, strong mandate of the people and of the country, in order to go truly loaded, full of democratic energy, to negotiate for Italy in Europe. But you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can't get out of your format. We've seen committees, task forces, press conferences. Please look at me, Mr President-in-Office, I am talking to you. [[Applause. Comments]] You listen even without looking, how do students do when teachers take them back? Was he listening even if he didn't look? Okay. [[Applause]] We understand that you, in order to take time, need to call the General States of the chatter, wandering through the armored Italian gardens of the Casino of the Bel Breath of Villa Doria Pamphilj, inviting walkways of VIP, acronyms, acronyms and sign, while the real world outside suffers [[Applause),]] while the productive categories call her desperate; but not those who come to her. The shutters that close so as not to rise again are pieces of our cities and our economy that die forever. Do you remember? Mr President, when we last saw each other - and I did not do it for cameras, but I did it on off-cameras - I brought her, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, a pack of desperate requests from artisans, traders, VAT matches, freelance professionals, tourism operators, entrepreneurs of all kinds. [[Applause]] People who even manifested in the square. Everyone, doctors, nurses; Mr President, those doctors and nurses who have allowed us to get out of the Covid-19 emergency at the risk of their lives, at the sacrifice of their lives and which you have rewarded with a euro in paycheck. [[Applause.]] Teachers, students: all requests for help. Mr President, the recipes are not to send the ball to the gallery with the general states of confusion. You will receive today the President of Confindustria. I would ask you to clarify, Mr President: do you agree with the President of INPS Tridico when he defines Italian entrepreneurs as lazy and opportunist? [[Applause]] Those Italian entrepreneurs who paid for you, who didn't, the Social Security Fund for their employees? Those entrepreneurs who are sacrificing their lives for their families, their children and, again, their employees? [[Applause]] One million jobs lost, 270,000 companies at risk of closure, 1,222,000 integrated funds that did not receive the integration fund. [[Applause]] Tridicus must be ashamed! [[Applause.]] You have to be ashamed. We would have the adjectives right for him, but we don't want to say them. You take care, Mr President-in-Office, of doing justice. Italian entrepreneurs are not lazy or opportunist; they are the salvation of our country. [[Applause.]] They are the ones who demand the only possible recipe to get out of the crisis: the suspension of tax deadlines, at least on 31 January 2021. How many times do we have to tell him? That tired ritual that you are celebrating among the snacks of Villa Doria Pamphilj we have been asking you for three months: suspension of tax deadlines, tax reform, real liquidity. [[Applause]] Not a liquidity decree without liquidity and without the bank's availability, which is not giving anything to anyone. Zero bureaucracy to restart work and work: this is the way to restart Italy, Mr President. We don't have time for chatter anymore, we don't have time for confusion anymore, we don't have time for fear anymore. We must give Italy the only possible opportunity to avoid being in September in such an extreme situation that she and I will no longer have the opportunity to speak as we are now. [[Applause]] I don't want to be responsible with you for the ruin of Italy. We have denounced this enormous social problem too many times. We have said too many times that problems either resolve immediately or are no longer solved. Today we are talking about Europe: it is not an abstract entity, Mr President, but an instrument. It's like a computer: it's not good or bad in itself, it depends on how you use it; you have to know how to use it. I wish you were like Merkel. I really wish you were, like Merkel, able to negotiate. We have the strength of the European People's Party behind us. We have the strength of a party that has been able to equip Europe with a toolbox that we must use. We cannot by majority bickering deprive ourselves of an opportunity that is neither his nor mine, but that of the country that is suffering. [[Applause]] We are depriving the Italians of money that would be essential to start solving problems, which - I repeat and I do not want to be an easy Cassandra - will be more and more amplified if they are not solved. Mr President, we have the European Central Bank which is giving us an extraordinary anti-speculation shield and is helping our country not to be attacked by vampire investors who take over our assets for a few euros. We have the ESM, which can help us with health expenditure to bear the burdens that our budget posts are unable to bear. We have already made two budgetary deviations, and unfortunately we have spent the accumulated debt very badly. Mr President, we would have told you more if you had allowed us more time. You see, I'm already in the tenth minute; we thought with the communications we had 28 minutes to interact with you. You understand how difficult it is to help you and how difficult it is, Mr Marcucci, to respond to your request for help. If the call for help is to be silent, silent and to do the oil on the stands, we are not there. [[Applause]] We are responsible, not accomplices. We cooperate, we don't obey. We have already said this: Mr President, how can you expect to present yourself in Europe without already having a national reform plan? The recovery fund, the recovery plan, Mr President, are not just words, they are paths, they are contained. No more words. Fill these words with content. [[Applause]] What did President von der Leyen tell you about the scooter bonus? Did you like it? Is it not appropriate to do instead of car and steel scraps, as Germany and France are doing? To deal with the past debts of entrepreneurs, who will be drowned by the crisis in September? [[Applause]] Is it not appropriate to solve the problem of the difficulty of supporting the income of the integrated funds, which have not yet had the integration fund and will be in an even worse situation in September? Mr President, I still have, as you can imagine, so much to say to her and so much to give her. But do you read the things we give you? Do you read the desperate letters and appeals of the real world, not that of the gardens of Villa Doria Pamphilj? The real world, not the sofas and brocades? Mr President, the people who are not reopening or who are afraid to close if they reopen. You have a strange relationship with the future, and I am really done with that, Mr President. She combines the verbs to the future: we will, we will say, we will give. He has a Napoleonic approach. Do you know what Napoleon said? To succeed in the world we must promise everything and not keep anything: this said Napoleon. But it doesn't work. [[Applause),]] Because the future is now, ladies and gentlemen, and we do not accept appeals that do not have a construct and a content. We have been there and we have always been there; we have sat at the tables and we have made our proposals, which are what we are doing now. To build the future of Italy, Forza Italia is there, but you must also be there. And now you're not there. [[Applause.]] Mr President, I really hope that next time you will come here with a little more courage, tearing down Maya's veil of hypocrisy and asking this Parliament to do its job: decide, fill the empty chatter with useless perimeters with content. For this reason, Forza Italia, as always, is there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u49	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u50	Mr President, I will be very specific in respect of those who are in this House, but especially those who are at home, because I have heard of surreal interventions, as if the problem were not the integration fund that did not arrive, but Trump and sovereignism. The problem is that the integration fund has not yet reached thousands of Italian workers. [[Applause.]] If we want to talk about philosophy, Let's do it. However, if there were a few aperitifs in the villa less and a few visits to a factory or an extra artisan company, surely it wouldn't hurt. [[Applause.]] Today I am going to talk about concrete issues. I recognize that every once in a while - rarely - when you listened to us you also did something right. Let me give you two examples. Firstly, the reopening of the courts in advance of 1 July, in order to ensure that the people of lawyers and magistrates do their work well and to ensure that millions of Italians finally have justice. It was our proposal, from the center-right; you accepted it and did it well. Secondly, the postponement of the plastic tax. Those who have an ideological bias towards development and industry will have noticed, during the closing months, that if we had not had plastic it would have been a massacre in this country. So helping entrepreneurs is one thing, butchering them is another thing. [[Applause.]] Minister Bonafede is missing. It is a strange country where in the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere there are fifty policemen investigated and the Carminati, the Camorristes and the Mafia of jail come out. This is about credibility in Europe, given that the PD spoke of credibility in Europe: having seen four hundred mobsters released, it certainly did not help the beautiful image of Italy in Paris or Berlin. Concrete proposals, I said. We are talking the day after the obligation - this time without listening, alas - for millions of Italians, families and businesses to pay 10 billion euros of IMU. It's crazy; making families and businesses in difficulty pay taxes right now is crazy. We submit to you the amendment that we have proposed for the extension of balances and advances Irpef, Ires and VAT in June and July. Asking Italians 40 billion euros now means living on Mars. Families don't have this money. [[Applause.]] We hope that Amendment 24.0.24 will be accepted. Public works. Today you will speak to the President of Confindustria. I have to say that entrepreneurs finally have someone who gives voice to Italian companies. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will get nervous, but if a small or large entrepreneur says "I went to the bank because the government had told me that there was a 400 billion bazooka, but instead of the bazooka I found the slingshot and did not give me a euro", obviously it is not a problem of sovereignism or League: you have done wrong the decree-law. If the banks do not provide money, you have done wrong the decree-law liquidity: let's review it together; if they don't give what is promised and if out of 400 billion those required are 36, it means that you wrote it wrong: get help to rewrite it. With regard to the procurement code, there are EUR 200 billion of firm public works: do we want to suspend it, as proposed by the League, which also calls for a European directive to enter into force in its place, since it has complicated the life of Italian companies? We use Directive 2014/24/EU: when Europe does something right, we are the first to celebrate. You cannot fill your mouth with words such as Europe, Europe, Europe, but then, when Europe - every now and then - produces something useful, Don't give a shit. We're gonna delete the procurement code. Genova model, I emphasize it, not CGIL: here the choice is between model CGIL - that maybe does some more union cards, but it delays the Cassa Integrazione and the yards - and that of an Italy that works, grows and goes on. As for immigration, about Europe, do you remember the great relocation plan of thousands and thousands of immigrants obtained by the Government in Malta? This is the result of last September: of the tens of thousands of immigrants that we should have repatriated, we repatriated 464 and in return 6,000 more have landed. On immigration you have failed resoundingly and sanatoria will only complicate this situation. Think about it. [[Applause. Comments. The microphone is automatically switched off.]] The open ports have saved lives, the closed ones condemn thousands of people to death. Open ports condemn... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u51	Senator, please sit down. No one has been interrupted. Senator Errani, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u52	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I understand that someone regrets slavery and trafficking in human beings, but it is not me who does so; I stand by the regular immigrants, but I do not want slaves in Italy. [[Comments.]] Why do you have to get nervous? I am calmly reasoning and making proposals, not in the villa, but in the place where this should be done, Parliament. I understand that it is more convenient for President Conte to go to the villa, but sometimes we also expect it in Parliament: it will be less chic, but that is democracy. We come to agriculture: the estimated damage to the agri-food sector, from now to the end of the year, is EUR 34 billion. The money budgeted for agri-food is 1.5 billion. It is an insult to Italian farmers, fishermen and farmers. Let's cook the others. With regard to Europe, Mr President, I call on you to suspend your accession to any free trade treaty with other European countries, because, at a time of difficulty like this, we do not need to import hormone meat or wheat from other parts of the world. We defend our products, even cherries, which are annoying to someone. On tourism, we copy the French neighbours, who have invested EUR 18 billion in the sector and we are in Europe. We stand at three billion: Mr President-in-Office, there are hoteliers, restaurateurs, bartenders, travel agencies, drivers and desperate tour operators. If your Europe's money arrives in the summer of 2021, it won't do a damn thing: either it arrives now or the companies will have closed, from here to next year. Another proposal, another bill deposited in Parliament - and not in the villa - by the League: do we stop the eight million debitory folders that Equitalia is preparing to send home to Italian families? The answer to the League is yes. The state can't show up after four months of closing down at the home of a family father, with a debitory file. Balance and cut, collected 20 percent of the total and let these people breathe and work free. We don't think we're asking for the impossible. As far as the car sector is concerned, let us think about France; I am not a macronist or a convinced Merkellian, but if something works at the borders with our country, Mr President-in-Office, copy it. France has given for the car sector, which in Italy amounts to 10% of the work, eight billion euro cash. You put 140 million in this sector for electric scooters from China. It's a shame, at least the bonuses give to the products made in Italy [[Applause]] They have infected us and we also buy them scooters, but it is not written in heaven or on earth, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We cook France or Germany. The latter did not wait for the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (Sure), the European Investment Bank (EIB) or the recovery fund. No. Germany has allocated 300 billion for families and businesses and lowered VAT and taxes without waiting for the money to come. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if your majority is arguing about everything, let it go away because the Italians are paying attention to the concrete French and German texts, which have lowered taxes without waiting for Europe. French and German copies. [[Applause.]] On April 22, 2020, the representatives of the 112,000 savers cheated by the banks wrote to her, and we budgeted 1.5 billion euros to compensate the Italian savers cheated by the banks. Do you know how much money has been paid to date? Zero. Can you move the Ministry of Economy and Finance to repay savers cheated by banks or have to wait another months or other years? [[Applause.]] As far as doctors are concerned, the whole of Europe is helping healthcare professionals. Amendment 1.4, rejected yesterday in the Budget Committee of the House by the Democratic Party, Movimento 5 Stars, Free and Equal and Renzi and company, demanded an exceptional prize for doctors and nurses. You should be ashamed to have talked about heroes for four months and then deny doctors and nurses the bonus in their salary. You should be ashamed of that. [[Applause.]] This is another rejected amendment. Speaking of Europe, we are the only European country that does not recognize the Italian sign language as an instrument for helping deaf people; another amendment tabled by the League and the centre-right. Do we want to give an answer at least to the people of the disabled, who have suffered more than others these four months of closure? It's zero. Let's take 5 million off electric scooters and send them to help the deaf and the disabled. We don't ask for miracles. [[Applause.]] Last two thoughts. As far as school is concerned, we ask you to respect the Constitution. There are no A-students and B-students. It's right to invest in school, it's crazy to think about plexiglass or distance learning. If he likes it so much, the Minister mountains in his house a nice cube of plexiglass, but leave our children alone. We help all students and teachers, because students and teachers from public schools are not students and teachers of the B series. [[Applause.]] You have also spoken of the free market; well, but it is not explained why when an Italian company tries to acquire a French company it is blocked everything and we instead open the doors of our country to French companies. It is today the news that comes from Florence: the governor of Tuscany Rossi investigated for the maxi contract that gave Tuscan transport to a French company for 4 billion. [[Applause.]] Can't we handle it in Italy? Can't we run a public transport company in Tuscany? The last proposal concerns an economic issue, but also a cultural and freedom issue. From 1 July, those who pay cash for goods purchased with more than 2,000 euros risk a fine of up to 50,000 euros. On this point too, I would ask the Government to copy Germany for economic and cultural reasons. Preventing an Italian citizen or a foreign citizen from spending as he wants, wherever he wants and when he wants his money is insane. [[Applause]] In Germany there is no limit on cash expenditure. Relaunching the economy: Genoa model or CGIL model? I prefer Italy that grows and works. Good work, Mr President-in-Office. Return to his aperitifs in the villa; we wait here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u53	She is registered to speak Senator Giannuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, before I start my speech on this issue, because this is the first time I have had the opportunity to speak in this House during the period we are living and because I know that the emotions of this country are often weighed down on what is said in these classrooms, I feel the need to say the following thing, I feel the need to say it and to listen to it: 34,000 deaths in three months are a single, immense, unbearable national tragedy. It's not 20 small regional tragedies. I personally prayed and cried for Lombardy, perhaps even more than for my land, because from that Region came the story of a horror that could not leave us indifferent. We need words of national unity. [[Applause]] To comfort us at the difficult time we live and to be reassured about the future that awaits us. The divisive words that are all too often spoken in this House, as well as being too often irresponsible, when we are caught by a world history, seem to me genuinely anti-historical. I would like to turn to the speech I wanted to make on the question of interlocutions with Europe. Mr Conte, in order to really understand what has happened so far, we must start from telling ourselves some truths, to which perhaps we are now ready. A united Europe is a noble dream, a high project, but to this day in many parts it is still very badly written, sometimes literally. For example, Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union states that the European Union is based on a highly competitive market economy; at the next stage it is said that it promotes solidarity between Member States. It has not been missed in time who pointed out that approaching economic competition and solidarity between States in the same declaration of intent is equivalent to a paradoxical injunction and, that is, to put in black and white impossible goals to be achieved together. From these contradictions, from an uncertain spirit between the meaning of the affairs and peace of the peoples could not come out immediately linearity. In fact, today we know that in some cases they have resulted in great and exclusive competitive advantages for some countries, while others, sometimes, have overwhelmed their productive and social fabric. Among the latter, in the past, there has certainly been Italy, which has often paid for the monetary rigidity to which it was not prepared and left on the plate of its European vocation manufacturing excellences and quotas of its agri-food market. Today only a particular combination between a world-wide drama and the lucky presence of men of good will to the government of the country is giving linearity to this twist. For the truth, the von der Leyen's inauguration speech had already seemed, at the time, to be the beginning of a change of pace, but to nail the men of state to their words, to have the will to do so is the unpredicted special gift of politics that you, in reality, possess and have exercised. To make clear the extraordinary nature of the events, you immediately expressed - let us remember - a single wish, which continued to mark all the time the difficult interlocations with the Union: that Europe was equal to the gravity of the moment with an adequate response for the history that was overwhelming us all, nobody excluded. The history of dialogue, which then followed, we can draw it, but only for brevity, starting from March 12, by the unhappy statement of Lagarde, which seemed to close on behalf of Europe all on every possibility of sharing a destiny shared already was in fact. We can then make it pass by March 26 for its task I send back to the sender of the support tools so far put on the plate. She had to say that, if it were old systems, they could keep them, that Italy didn't need them and that we would do it ourselves. Every word of national pride here, as you would say, would be inadequate. On April 18th, then, probably only the weight of the enormous responsibility she felt led her to make clear what mid-world diplomacy for modesty had long been silent: is Germany opposed to the recovery fund? Its trade balance violates the rules and is a brake on Europe. He told the Netherlands that with his tax dumping he took away revenue from other countries. We arrive at 27 May when the European Commission, as is well known, has approved both the recovery fund and the proposal to guarantee it with the multiannual financial framework (MFF). This is EUR 750 billion to be made available to Member States because of the different impact of the pandemic. In fact, Italy would have the highest share, about 135 billion, of which almost 82 would be lost. Mr President, on 27 May you not only brought home a negotiating result; you helped to straighten out a ground-breaking, contradictory and distorted spirit. Europe today conceives the acceptance of a common destiny and the sharing of its burdens. President, the Earth's axis has shifted and it is useless to hide. Net of the media dust of these months, entering the history books will be his person, the government supported by this majority and the date of May 27. However, it is important, at the moment, on this umpteenth eve of the European Council, to add the following things: never again a step back, President Conte, and ever further ahead. Never again a step back, because retreating from the idea established today would be time lost on the path of a complete and worthy construction of the Europe of peoples. Further and further on, President Conte, so that the temptation does not prevail to be content to come out alive from the fear of these months, temptation that would soon condemn us to relive that fear, because the pandemic showed us, with raw clarity, that we are evidently at the end of the capacity of life itself to endure our contradictions and that it is time to face and resolve the fundamental nodes of modernity. Nodi that, I like to remember, are the heart of the historical reasons of the Movement, how to combine, for example, the economic well-being, still conceived almost exclusively in the perimeter of the traditional process of production and consumption, with the need, evidently no longer postponed, to safeguard the health and the maintenance of our ecosystem. Yet, how to make technological progress compatible, which also means, among other things, automation and therefore potential loss of labour, with the need for social inclusion. However, you are aware of this when, at the opening of the General States, you say: we will not be content to restore normality. Even more paradoxically, we are convinced by his passage, in my opinion only seemingly minimal, when he claims to have chosen Villa Doria Pamphilj because we wanted to show the world the beauty of Italy, because we want to invest in beauty. [[Applause.]] With this statement, you show that you have made it clear that investing in intangible values is part of that quadrature of the circle between economic well-being and environmental protection. Meanwhile, President Charles Michel, in that same seat, has come to say that a society based on dignity and benevolence is emerging in the new horizon. Benevolence: to love one another. Oh, my gosh, that'd make sense. In closing, Mr Conte, it is to these words that we want to believe not random but totally intentional, as should always be the words of the men of state, that we ask you to nail Europe again, with all the strength of its intelligence and good will, for what remains to be done to achieve a new way of being together, and not just for Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u55	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u56	I communicate that, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, proposals for a preliminary question concerning the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 26 of 20 April 2020 on electoral consultations for the year 2020. The resolution on the proposals will be on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, Thursday 18 June 2020, at 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u59	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I take advantage of this late-session speech to point out that the Apulian aerospace industry industry is on a very dangerous and particularly critical ridge. In the light also of the necessary reform plan to which the crisis brought by Covid calls us, we must put our hand with great ambition to the functions carried out by the plants of Grottaglie and Taranto. A courageous investment planning process must be launched to start the Ionian Arc towards an environmentally sustainable-aerospace-cantieristic-transport industry system. It is necessary to plan a wide diversification of the productive system capable of absorbing over the years the problem of the former Ilva and, in parallel, give back to an entire territory tangible employment opportunities for Puglia and for the Apulians. Even today I am called every day boys with a degree in their pockets or years of work experience who, with new families, find themselves forced to leave to try to build more stable positions elsewhere: I consider this a forced defeat for politics and for those who practice politics in the institutions. Mr President, I also take advantage of the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council, in order to urge the Minister for Economic Development to respond to the urgent 3-01475 inspection union, with the hope that, through this document too, an even more in-depth discussion will take place on the subject which not only covers a territory but also affects entire generations. I also take advantage of the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers to say that perhaps we need to give a few more answers on the acts of inspection union, because we, as a majority, have to prove ourselves different. The act of inspection union is the only way to be able to respond to parliamentary solicitations that come from requests of the territories. I'm sure you'll welcome my awareness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u62	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to say something very important to me. It is Parliament that makes the laws. The government finds itself in Villa Doria Pamphilj to determine what? Mr President, you are the second office of the State and I invite you to tell the President-in-Office of the Council, who is in this House, that it is here that we should have been closed ten or fifteen days or even a month to decide the laws for the country and not in a villa. [[Applause.]] I have heard, from Senator Giannuzzi, intervened before me, that the meeting was organized at Villa Doria Pamphilj, because it represents the beauty of Italy: well, the beauty of Italy is given by all Italians, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and traders, who work to make this country great and not already by a villa, where today the Government closes with the four parties (the PD, the tax party, the party of the happy decrease, the party of the extreme left) and the fifth axis, constituted by the unions. Today we talk to the CGIL, while we must talk to the businesses that are suffering and putting soul and body to save this country. You are slowly destroying the entrepreneurial mindset. Every day we see companies that close and suffer. What do you do? You meet with the CGIL mindset. You are the enemies of concreteness and entrepreneurial spirit, in my opinion you are what the country no longer wants to see. Therefore, Mr President of this Upper House, of the Senate, I invite you not to bring back to Villa Doria Pamphilj but here the main topic [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u65	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, in saying goodbye to the President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that, of all the perverse fantasies of opposition parties and some right-wing journalists, that of hidden funding from Venezuela is the most ridiculous accusation that the Movimento 5 Stars has received for ten years now. [[Applause]] A fake news, released in 2016 and already denied, based on a document that presents three gross errors: stamp, header and wrong address. It would have been enough to control these elements to understand that we were faced with a fake, but the mud machine against us and against the government operates at full speed, 24 hours a day. What is really shameful is the attempt to discredit the memory of a decent man, Gianroberto Casaleggio, to whom all Italians should be grateful for his vision and his intellectual honesty. [[Applause]] We are a political force that has renounced 42 million euros of electoral refunds; by cutting our salaries we have created a fund that has allowed the opening of thousands of VAT matches, which has supported the earthquake victims and flood victims; during the emergency Covid, with our salaries we have bought machinery that we have donated to hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you cut your salaries like we do? [[Applause]] Why don't you? We have already returned EUR 111 million to citizens. The 5 Star Movement has always been funded by the support of its activists, rejecting public funding, let alone the occult ones. We don't have skeletons in the closet, unlike many of you who are allowed to slander us today. Take a good conscience test. You know, Salvini, I don't see him anymore and he's gone? Our fault is that after Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria, we have not supported yet another attack by proxy, we have not recognized a self-proclaimed President, who would have plunged the country into a civil war. We have chosen to support dialogue between the parties, peace, national sovereignty, international law and the facts have proved us right. We have never been and will never be like you, dear colleagues, sly negotiators of oil-black exchanges, lombard health burglars and beneficiaries of charitable funds of Christian fundamentalists anti-Bergoglio. In foreign policy, the principle of non-interference applies to us. We are for the self-determination of peoples regardless of whether the Government has the right or the left. It is up to sovereign citizens to get rid of their dictators and not foreign powers that, as history teaches us, have as their goal to capture oil and other resources. I will conclude by saying that this intellectual honesty of ours drives you crazy, then you call us close to Venezuela, China, Russia. No, we are only close to the Italian people and you should be too. Our political positions are crystal clear. We do not work with the favor of darkness, embarrass yourselves once again for your ridiculous and infamous accusations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u68	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to remind you of the International Day Against Child Labour, which was celebrated on 12 June. It was born with the aim of placing the attention of the whole world on the very serious and unfortunately still widespread phenomenon of the exploitation of children at work. This anniversary is an opportunity to raise awareness of all of us and to draw general attention to the exploitation of millions of children. Child labour denies girls and boys their main rights: safety, education, training, play, confrontation with peers, fun, carefreeness and above all life experiences that shape their personality. It has been estimated that about 168 million children in the world are now working, half of them do dangerous and risky jobs, which have direct consequences on health, safety and physical and mental development. This plague afflicts the whole world, with peaks in underdeveloped countries, in which underpaid and exploited child labour is used by multinationals to produce a wide range of products then sold at a very high price in the shops of our cities. In Africa, Asia or South America, the minor often has two possibilities: to work exploited and abused for many hours a day for a few change, or to find himself with a rifle in his hand to fight for a war that doesn't even know who he might have wanted. This phenomenon is not only happening far from us, but also in our Western nations, which call themselves civilians, there is the phenomenon of child labour. In Italy there are 340,000 children under the age of sixteen involved in work activities at the limits of exploitation, children and young people are employed as cheap labor in sheds or basements, where there are no minimum standards of safety and environmental hygiene, or in agricultural fields at the weather, with massacred shifts and poor wages. Certainly poverty and social degradation constitute the environmental conditions where child exploitation finds fertile ground to prosper and take root. Every child has the right to live his or her childhood completely and fully, to make his or her path of progressive and gradual maturation in a balanced and united family. We adults must ensure that our children live their enthusiasm and carefreeness. Children represent our future, our future. For this reason, so many parents sacrifice themselves and often undergo so many deprivations and submissions to see them happy and grow in harmony and love. Mr President, life is made up of progressive stages of development, each age has its own needs, experiences and motivations, which must be lived with serenity and tranquility. Children have to play and study, not work. We don't make our kids grow up too fast, we build a better future for them, cultivating and helping them realize their dreams. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u71	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I have been engaged for years in denouncing the absolute uselessness of cutting Apulian olive trees in the fight against xylella. Today I have the pleasure to communicate the positive results of the experiment carried out at the Cisternino field on two olive trees declared affected by the bacterium. As you know, I have elected my parliamentary residence at the above-mentioned fund, in order to promote and raise awareness of the community to carry out all useful activities to find methods of care for olive trees affected by xylella that could avoid the measure of eradication and promote policies to protect the environment and healthy agriculture of Puglia. As part of this activity, I have gathered the willingness of a well-known North Italian society to apply the scientific protocol of thermal stress to olive trees in order to eradicate the bacterium, a practice already experienced by that society on other olive trees in Salento. At my expense, therefore, I have commissioned the application of this scientific protocol on the two plants declared infected in Cisternino. All sampling and analysis procedures have been carried out in compliance with the European Directives. Well, the method of thermal stress, patented by Sanitrix, was fatal to the xylella bacterium, thus confirming similar positive results already obtained on other olive trees in Salento. The results were rigorously verified and confirmed as a result of the specific technical report. The olive trees of the Cisternino bottom, my parliamentary residence, are therefore no longer affected by the annoying xylella. All this proves that the annoying xylella can be fought and defeated without any need to cut the wonderful Apulian olive trees. It is news of these days the environmental disaster in the countryside of Carovigno, where the Regional Agency for Irrigation and Forestry Activities (ARIF) has carried out the eradication of millenarian olive trees, all however on the basis of reliefs on the completely unreliable plants, as already demonstrated by the famous story of the Monopoly tree on which, even following a complaint of mine, the Bari judiciary intervened. In thanking all the activists who have conducted these battles with me (Aldo and Franca, the dearest Loredana Marangolo, Michele, Angelo and my fellow Senators Martelli and De Bonis), in reaffirming the seriousness of the situation in Puglia, I invite all political forces and the Government to assume the responsibility to put an end, with courage, to this shameful extermination. Cut the olive trees, however, very much not even affected by xylella, it does not help anything: it does not block the xylella simply because it is not only on the olive trees, but it can be anywhere, on the bushes, on the oleanders, everywhere. There are effective remedies, not only to prevent xylella, but also to defeat it: the method of thermal stress is the obvious proof of this. What Apulia needs is to regain love for its land and its traditions. It is necessary to cure the olive trees and not to cut them down; the environment must be protected and not altered by the grafting of new types of less noble olive trees, more fragile and in any case in need of water, which the Apulian earth cannot give. The farmers of Puglia, the real ones, know very well how to do it: it would be useful to listen to their voice and not to the greed of the interests of those who already imagine the great division of the Community funds coming to finance the destruction of the Apulian land. The cutting of the Apulian olive trees must be stopped immediately and a permanent table for the solution of the crisis must be opened, giving rise to the appropriate tests and trials of the thermal stress method and to the prompt adoption of measures to ensure the support of correct practices in agriculture. I have invited the President of the Puglia Region to do so. I trust in the support and sensitivity of all those who love our land. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-230.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, June 18, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13:53 a.m.
