ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr GINETTI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2045 already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u5	Mr President, the Calabria Region has been in charge since 2009 due to a high health deficit and the failure to reach the minimum level of sufficiency in the key levels of assistance (LEA). Despite this commissionership, the deficit grew every year to reach and exceed 160 million in 2019 and the score of the LEA grid up to 2019 was still below threshold. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u6	Colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone to more attention if possible. Even if we are at work again, I believe that the rapporteur's reply deserves to be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u7	Please, Senator. Mrs Castellone, rapporteur. Today, therefore, we are talking about a health care that has been demolished, impoverished, victim of the dismantling of public structures and organic plants; a health care in which hospital beds have been cut off and there has been no provision for primary care facilities and intermediate care; a health care in which client recruitment was the rule; a health care victim of an altered public-private relationship to the detriment of Calabrian citizens, who have had to cope with the increased costs for all health services; a health care in which to access quality benefits citizens were forced to emigrate to other regions, affecting in an even more important way the budget and regional accounts, accounts in red for the absence of budgets - I want to remember how the provincial health company (ASP) of Reggio Calabria from 2013 to 2017 presented oral budgets, that it is not clear what they are - and for supplies paid at very high costs with the same invoices cleared several times; a health victim of management managers who are not oculate, not to say incompetent. Of course, Senator Engialavori, it is not the fault of the Calabrian citizens, who are victims of this system. In 2019, however, for the first time, the State intervened to protect Calabrian citizens, for whom until then a fundamental right such as that enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution had not been guaranteed, the right to health. The first decree in favour of the Calabria Region expired, however, on 3 November, yet all the criticalities persist. For this reason there is the need for a new regulatory intervention in favour of Calabria, a new decree-law with a biennial duration (or reduced compared to the two years, if all the objectives are achieved in advance). This new decree assigns to the Commissioner ad acta identified in the prefect Guido Longo - to whom we all wish good work - powers and extraordinary means and puts in place important resources to finally reach the threshold of sufficiency in the essential levels of assistance. The focal points of this standard are different and I take only a few of them back. First of all, the strengthening of the commissioner structure with subcommissaries up to a number of three, with extraordinary resources and resources, with the support of the agencies of the Ministry of Health, in particular the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas), the Agency for Revenues and Prefecture. It provides for the extraordinary recruitment of healthcare personnel by way of derogation from the expenditure limits, up to EUR 12 million for each year, drawing first of all on the rankings of fit and stabilizing the precarious. The rule provides for the first time to verify the results, achievements and objectives, which will be evaluated every six months with a report on the state of implementation of the changes and activities of the extraordinary Commissioners of all bodies of the regional health service. The rule also finally provides for the substitution powers of the State in case of non-compliance of the Region or its non-cooperation with the commissioner ad acta. Finally, I would like to take up in this reply some of the ideas that have been offered by the speeches of my colleagues in general debate. Senator Marinello spoke of the need to strengthen the emergency-emergency, both territorial and hospital, to strengthen the territorial medicine also with the institution of the family nurse; all measures that have been planned in recent months to cope with the emergency Covid-19. I share with Senator Granato the need to review the criteria for the appointment of the managers of the regional health service bodies, because we need enlightened, competent and non-deserving people at the head of the bodies of that service to the politicians who appointed them. I also share with Senator Granato the need to review the relationship between the State and the Regions in the area of health, strengthening the power of central state direction, in order to guarantee the same right to care for all citizens throughout the national territory. Finally, by taking up a number of speeches by my fellow opposition Members, particularly Senators Mangialavori and Magorno, with reference to the need to provide for a reduced deadline for the Commissariat, I would like to stress that it is already provided for under the rule that the duration may be less than two years in the event that all the objectives envisaged are achieved. With regard to what Senator Cantù said, I share the urgent need to take decisive action on a reform of specialist medical training and, I would add, also general medical doctors. I remember that the government finally filled the training funnel that had been created in the years when the need for specialists was not planned according to the health needs of the population. Today, however, this happens, also thanks to the technostructure that we created in the last budget law between Agenas and the Observatory of the specialization schools. However, I would like to stress that what Senator Cantù said, namely that we must invest in the recruitment of young levers, referring to doctors in training, must not mean making these labour at low cost, in order to avoid hiring staff in public or private structures, because for us the quality of training is in the first place. I would like to urge the opposition and also the Senator Santù herself to work together with the bill No. 1519, which has now been incardinated in the Health Commission for more than a year, which provides for the reform of postgraduate medical training. Finally, with reference to what Senator Rizzotti said, I would like to point out that I too share the need to strengthen prevention, because it is the most powerful weapon we have to move from waiting medicine to initiative medicine. It is the most powerful weapon we have, for example, in the field of cancer: in fact, if tumors are diagnosed in time and treated early, the outcome is certainly better. I would like to conclude my speech by reminding myself, as some colleagues have done, Governor Santelli, that in her memory we must also commit ourselves all, so that the citizens of Calabria can be guaranteed the right to care. [[Applause]] In particular, Calabrian cancer patients must be given access to timely diagnosis and innovative care, without having to emigrate to receive health benefits that meet the standards guaranteed throughout the rest of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u8	Senator Castellone, we all very much appreciate your call to Jole Santelli, who remains present in this House. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u9	Mr President, I shall be very brief. First of all, I thank Senator Castellone, who said many things that I will not repeat. Like the senator, my memory also goes to Jole Santelli, with whom a few months ago, when I went to Calabria to evaluate the problems related to the Covid (respirators, tests and more), I spoke for a long time, for about an hour, about the Calabrian situation in general. He had a very good relationship with her. I would therefore like to use only one word that I used with her on that day: normal. Calabria needs normality, which means not having to say: I went into a hospital and - think! - I found it clean, as if finding a clean hospital wasn't normal. A clean hospital must be normal, it can't be a great thing. Normality means finding a hospital near open house, not closed, as unfortunately you see in many parts of Italy and especially in Calabria; it means finding a doctor nearby; it means finding someone who listens to you. The Calabrians need this normality, which we all hope for. The measure that we are preparing to vote on today is the means towards this normality that each of us must want, because we are Italians, but we are also all Calabrians. And I mean it with my heart, really. I find it frankly unfair, for two reasons, that a Calabrian person and his family should move from Calabria to Naples, Rome or Milan, because they cannot find a cure. Firstly, because democracy means being able to have adequate care everywhere, even near home. Secondly, it is also an injustice for health workers who live, work and sacrifice themselves in Calabria. I guarantee you that, having visited several facilities in Calabria, the health quality is there. The measure we are about to vote on must also be the means of trusting the Calabrians for what they have in their territory. However, we must not deceive ourselves, because it is clear that if we have not yet achieved the result for eleven years and we need a further measure, the road is on the rise. You can't and shouldn't be wrong anymore. The measure under consideration is the means to give the Commissioner now present in Calabria additional means to achieve this result. I believe that the desirable result is that normality which I have just said, which is achieved through dialogue between all the local and central institutions. In fact, when it is wrong, the responsibility is never of one, but of the group. Attention, therefore, because everyone must take responsibility, including us who are part of the central government. The responsibility is never one and it is too easy to point the finger on the single, as often happens in Italy. The responsibility is always with the group, as is the decision we take today. We're all Italian. [[Applause]] Normality means, therefore, collaboration. [[Applause]] Normality means transparency: I have also heard colleagues from Calabria speaking here and I hope that they agree with me - because I am sure that they too are excellent, as doctors - on the fact that transparency passes through the control of the money that arrives in Calabria. The people of Calabria need transparency and to know what will happen for every single penny that comes out of their pockets for the state. They have the right to know this: so when I hear about oral accounts, I clearly get the chills. These things must no longer happen and those who are wrong will have to pay, but - be careful - in addition to charging, we must watch and help: we help with dialogue and we build together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u12	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, before we begin this speech to explain the proposal not to move to the discussion of articles NP1, which we are presenting in accordance with Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, my colleagues will forgive me if, once again, I address a thought to my friend Jole Santelli, who would have been fifty-two years old just yesterday. [[Applause]] May I also thank the Calabria Region, which always yesterday morning named in its name the Palace of the Region: a gesture certainly symbolic, but necessary, to honor the memory of a great president, a great woman, a great friend and personal ally and Calabria, a virtuous model of self-denial and competence, which so well did to my land in the few months in which it was able to operate. Happy birthday, Jole, wherever you are, and thank you. Returning to the subject of the session, fate wants us to talk about Calabria in these days and to speak about it for one of the aspects that hurts the heart of every Calabrian citizen, that is, health, which is in desperate conditions, despite the fact that the State has been exercising its control for more than ten years. For this reason, the proposal not to move on to the discussion of the NP1 articles that we have tabled puts the House's attention to a very serious issue, concerning the respect of some of the most important principles dictated by our Constitution. In fact, Mr President, we are still looking for the legislative and constitutional presuppositions on which this decree-law is based, since it basically does nothing more than impose the continuous continuation, for a further two years, of the effects of the Calabrian Acta Commission. As my colleagues have already said, it has indeed been eleven years for the State in Calabria to exercise its entire competence in the field of health protection, almost to make it exclusive, completely expropriating the Region of every function and power, even normative, in violation of regional legislative autonomy. The Decree-Law under consideration provides for the implementation of special measures so pervasive for the ordering of a regional body, such as the Commissariat, which necessarily impose a time-limited duration, precisely because of the suspension of some of the most important constitutional principles. This awareness was also evident in the explanatory report accompanying the first Calabria decree, No 35 of 2019, in which it was justified precisely the disapplication of constitutional dictates with the time limit then set at eighteen months. The current decree describes the urgent provisions aimed at pursuing the objectives set out in the programmes for the continuation of the return plan. These interventions are defined as extraordinary measures, with which it would be intended to accompany, as the Deputy Minister Sileri also said, Calabrian health to normal administrative situations. Now, to propose by a further decree-law the extension of the original deadline of eighteen months of another twenty-four is a clear violation of the principle of loyal collaboration set out in Article 120 of our Constitution, according to which the different levels of government must cooperate with each other. It is true, the constitutional dictation, in some specific cases of non-compliance, provides that the Government can replace the organs of the Region and of the Municipalities, but attributing to an ordinary law the definition of procedures, precisely by virtue of the full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. On the other hand, it must be noted that in the decree-law under consideration there is no trace, or even no specific reference, of the criteria of caution established in the matter of autonomy of the Regions. On the contrary, we see once again that, through the extraordinary measures, the Government has decided to delegate a commissioner to acta and the submissaries to effectively manage all Calabrian health, from hospitals to staff, from pharmaceutical assistance to prevention, and of course to the appointment of health managers, who will have to implement government directives. This is without taking into account the obvious failure of the Commissioner's instrument, which in eleven years has contributed to the worsening of health care in Calabria, without reducing the debt, which - let us remember - was estimated at around 150 million in 2010, while today we are not yet able to estimate it. [[Applause]] Again, this has been done without taking into account the health deficit, also creating a structural shortage of health personnel because of the turnover block. Calabria, to date, is a taillight region throughout Europe, where essential levels of assistance cannot be guaranteed, as we all say. The consequence of this situation is a passive mobility of 320 million euros per year, a trend unfortunately always growing. Those who are not in the economic condition of being able to allow themselves to travel (and there are really many), continue to suffer long waiting lists for specialist visits, as well as the precarious situations of hospitals, sometimes not according to the norm and not able to accommodate all. Rather than looking at a further decree-law, it would have been expected to start together a shared path, aimed at limiting, or completely eliminating, the instrument of the Commissariat, which, on the contrary, has been stiffened and expanded over time, through the establishment of a supercommissary, who, although with a resume of all respect (I refer to the Prefect Longo), will not be able to guarantee the change required by my fellow citizens: the right to care in their own territory. Colleagues, we must not forget that, without health, everything is nothing. The situation we are going through has helped to confirm it and opened our eyes, making us understand that no matter who we are and what we have done in life: in the face of health problems, we are all equal, we share the same anxieties and concerns, we are all powerless and we must totally rely on other people and trust a health system that will determine our fate. To foresee for another two years the Commissariat in Calabria with the sole logic of returning the debt, which has also failed, continues to be a failure, also towards the medical and nursing staff, who will continue to work without the machinery, medicines and personnel needed. The previous decree was so much desired by the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Star Group to save Calabrian health management. In fact, he sentenced us to other months (first eighteen, now twenty-four) of managerial management, oriented towards the simple and cynical will to return to debt, without, among other things, achieving the objective. If in other regions, in much less time, it has been possible, through the Commissioners' system, to recover debt and restructure health, it is clear that this system does not work in Calabria. In the light of these assumptions, as well as the evident current situation, which shows an indebted Region, deprived of the necessary structures to guarantee the essential levels of assistance, administered for eleven years by the commissioners imposed by the various governments without any minimum involvement of the Region, violating with extreme care the Constitutional Charter, we ask not to pass to the examination of the articles. The commissioner failed his mission, condemning my land to not have a health offer worthy of a Western country. It is time that the Government took responsibility for this, that it put in the hands of the Calabrian institutions the management of the health of its citizens. In addition to estimating the debt of our health care, we will also estimate yours against the Calabrians, which will be irreparable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u13	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of NP1 articles by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2045, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 150 of 10 November 2020 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u15	The Presidency takes note of the position of the question of confidence on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 150, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u18	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I deeply believe that since tonight, when the so-called... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u19	Whoever has to go out does, because I believe that Senator Parente does not demand your presence, but your attention does.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u20	Please, Senator Parente. Parent (IV-PSI). I believe that since tonight, when the so-called Calabria- bis Decree-Law has been finally adopted, we must all work to ensure that Calabria can overcome the police station and restore the right to health to its people. Too many times Calabria has failed; now we must succeed. We owe it to the citizens of Calabria who for years have been forced to move for their health needs. We owe it to young people and researchers, who study outside their homeland and have to find a realization elsewhere. We also owe it to health professionals who instead choose to return to Calabria to contribute to the development of their territory and bring excellence and quality in that same territory (because there is a lot of them in Calabria). We owe it to the political ruling class, yes, also to the political ruling class, to the one who wants to change things (woe to make the whole grass a bundle). We have retraced malasanity in Calabria; now we must begin a new era and therefore we owe it also to young people who want to engage in politics in that land, to the administrative ruling class and to the mayors. Yesterday we heard the words of my colleague, Mayor and Senator, Magorno. In recent weeks, I have also received a delegation of Calabrian mayors, who broke my heart, bringing the cry of sorrow of the population. We owe it to them, to the mayors, who are always at the forefront. This could be the right opportunity not to find us, in twenty-four months, to have to postpone once again the commission and to return to that normality, which evoked just before the Vice Minister, because the normality of Calabria must be the normality of the whole national community. Meanwhile, for the first time, the measure under consideration is not only the objective of economic and financial equilibrium, for which we are in these conditions, but also that of the requirement and guarantee of the essential levels of assistance. The House of Deputies has strengthened the measure by providing for an recruitment plan of medical, health and social health personnel, entrusting the Commissioner to acta the task of strengthening the LEAs, thus trampled on in this difficult emergency by Covid-19. Let us also make Calabria an example of the restoration of primary care and territorial medicine, an example of how the health system in Italy must function. In this measure we have also obtained, thanks to the Italian Group Viva in the Chamber of Deputies, information... [[Brusio. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u21	Colleagues, I have already referred to you in this regard, but I am asked to repeat the prayer to go out, if you do not intend to listen or follow with a little more taste and attention the speaker's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u22	Please, Senator Parente. Parent (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, a monthly report of the mayors was added to the measure, which I mentioned earlier. Certainly it is not all we could put on the field, because the mayors are always and in any case in the front line and are the first citizens of the territorial communities. The State commits economic and human resources to the decree-law under consideration and therefore we will not only talk about tickets and taxes, which are going to worsen the lives of the towns and citizens of Calabria. I believe that with this measure we all - parliamentarians, political and administrative class, State, Government and all the Regions - have the great opportunity to raise the fate of our beautiful Calabrian land, to start again with a better future. For these reasons, the Gruppo Italia Viva will vote for the trust on the decree-law Calabria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u25	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we come to the substance of the decree-law on our examination, let me comment with you, quickly, on the case of vaccines, which engages the newspapers, the media and ultimately the Italians, who are receiving such messages these days. We have seen the clowning - I have no other term to define the transport to unified networks of a few doses of vaccine, about 9,750 - and the exits in the television broadcast "Sunday on" because these are now the places of confrontation, once Parliament has expropriated. It is quite clear that, if you put your trust in such a measure, Parliament's expropriation is now clear, without any need to comment further. Well, as I said, with all this money you have orchestrated to tell the Italians that there is a D-Day and whatever else, it should be remembered that in Italy we received less doses than Denmark, which has 6 million inhabitants and received 40,000 doses at first beat; let's not talk about Germany, which received 150,000. We received 9,750. Only Serbia is worse than us. Colleagues, in relation to this matter of vaccines, I think it should be made clear that you must submit a national vaccination plan. We haven't seen him. Did you, partner, see that? Then, if you've seen it, let us have it; send it to me, I'll give you my cell phone number. The Regions are preparing vaccination plans (already the Lazio has, and all the other Regions are fulfilling them these days), without a national reference framework, which is not there. We are not talking about the pandemic plan, but about the vaccine plan, which is a simple logistics management formula that concerns distribution, transport and injection: nothing more. It's easy and, if you want, we'll make it for you; we're available if you need it. With regard to all this, ladies and gentlemen - perhaps we will discuss it better in the budget - all this money and all this boasting that you do not understand what, or rather go and boast about what you should literally be ashamed of, [[Applause]] , it is something that shouts revenge in the face of politics. It shouts revenge, because Italy, colleagues, as you know, has had scandalous records: Italy today has the greatest number of deaths, the greatest drop in GDP compared to all the other countries of the world, the highest Covid spending compared to all the other European countries (95 billion, to date). Shame! Shame! Stay home instead of going to Mara Venier to boast you don't understand what. [[Applause]] I appreciate the good intentions of my colleague Castellone and my colleague Sileri in recalling President Santelli; it is absolutely welcome the spirit, but it would be necessary to be more consistent, given that some bizarre characters are still wandering around in the meanders of the institutions and no one has convinced them that it would be better to return decorum to those institutions that still hang out, and it would be appropriate for them to stop doing so. With regard to the matter of the Commissariat, it was launched eleven years ago with two criteria: debt and the LEA administration grid. To date, these two criteria have not only deteriorated, but have considerably deteriorated. With regard to debt, the first commissioner, President Scopelliti, beat it down by 33 million in 2013. But the debt then rose inexorably: I heard very approximate figures, but in the last table last July they certified 230 million debt. Nevertheless, you have dropped the first decree, perhaps because you too are ashamed of what you write and perhaps in the end you have a little modesty. So that first decree that we discussed in this House, when we anticipated that it would produce nothing (as nothing produced), you let it lapse in the first days of November. On December 10, you passed a new decree. It is not clear what the criterion is, since one month before you could, when you converted, modify the previous one and at least you wouldn't have made it look bad to make it decay. But by now you have become accustomed to the ugly figures because in the end you get used to everything evidently, even to the wine that tastes of vinegar to drink it always. So do you: you have deceased the first decree and you have presented a new one that contains yet another expropriation of constitutionally guaranteed rights to an Italian Region: I refer to autonomy with respect to the management of health care. Colleagues, you know that health management for a region is largely the first item of expenditure. It is normally between 70% and 80% of the regional budget. What is the point of regional management without health care for eleven years? With what criterion do we call the electorate (when you finally decide to do so) when the State expropriates, with a banal decree, or rather with the succession of trivial decrees converted, literally 70-80 percent of the budget of a Region? What's that regional administration for? The history of these Commissioners, moreover, is absolutely paradoxical. There is a health transhumance - because this must be talked about, not about mobility, because you treat the Calabrians like sheep - of one in six Calabrians. One in six Calabrians treat themselves outside the region. Do you know how much passive mobility of the Calabria Region amounts to? Three hundred million euros a year. It is an authentic ATM for the regions of the North because the Calabrians go, of course, to the regions that can guarantee better health benefits. Meanwhile, during the lifetime of these Commissioners, the LEA grid, which was one of the reasons for the commissioner, has deteriorated. Today in Calabria we live on average five years less than in the Northern Regions such as Lombardy and Veneto. Five years. Colleagues, in what capacity do you take away five years of life from the people of Calabria? I say to you why we do not do so, my dear colleague Sileri, because it is true that we are all Italians but we are not all the same - alive god - and today you repeat the police station and continue to take away five years of life from some Italians. It is not true that we are all Italians, just as it is not true that Calabria needs normality. Calabria needs legality and the first to behave in an illegal manner is the State with the repetition of measures that have no logic and no nature other than that of expropriating a Region, today even more so because it is governed by the center-right, 80% of its budget. Colleagues, with the decree-law to our examination you, moreover, lengthen the period of the commissionership. Colleague Castellone, of course, it's written that it can end sooner, but do you imagine it will end sooner? Shall we make a good bet? Do you imagine that this police station will be finished first, and with what criterion? Only if we go and vote, if you go home, and neither govern the center-right, so maybe it would change something in Italy, otherwise the commissioner will come to an end with the same poor results and despite the name of respect that you have chosen compared to a police management that can only produce... [[Call the president back.]] Excuse me, President, I want to end with the word'shame', by listing the names you have proposed to us in this waltz of candidates you have spent for the benefit of the newspapers: Cotticelli, Zuccatelli, Varratta, Gaudio, Strada, Mostarda, Miozzo e, dulcis in fondo, Rosy Bindi. That's you. You're on this list of names. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u28	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, with intellectual honesty, it is right to acknowledge that ten years of police work have not produced any positive results. It's okay to throw the first stones, but, as you know, the path of these ten years has seen several protagonists, on one side and on the other. It is, however, equally wrong not to see that the current situation in Calabria, without budgets, in a situation of serious pre-Covid health emergency, requires extraordinary intervention. For an important reality, which is Italy, namely Calabria, in my opinion it is necessary to give itself two objectives: the first, to absolutely overcome the Commissariat within the next two years; the second, to try to share, between the various political forces, a strategy to achieve this objective. There are three conditions, in my opinion, that the decree puts on the table. First of all, resources; then, the need to build a team. Not even Nembo Kid alone would be able to govern and solve the problems of Calabria; it takes a team of technicians, professionals, skills. From this point of view, I hope that Agenas will be able to make available to the Commissioner the best Italian skills to build a plan of escape from the Commissariat in the next two years. It takes skills. Together with the Calabria Region - I want to remember also Jole Santelli because I'm sure you would have done so - you have to build the skills of the Calabria Region to manage health care. Those skills which, unfortunately, for the reasons we know, are not available today. Eleven years is too many and we can't go wrong anymore. I would like to see an opportunity from this point of view to discuss the return plan between the various political forces, to discuss it with the Calabrian citizens and to make this plan an important part of the Calabrian qualitative leap: a plan for Calabria, Calabria. In fact, from above, without a participatory system, the problem of Calabria will not be solved; we must be aware of it. I also say this to the Government and to the majority: if we do not involve Calabria, every objective, even the right one, risks not being feasible. However, I would like to make two more comments. Decree-Law No 150 of 2020 is indispensable, but some overall reflections are needed. I believe that certain fundamental health decisions must be taken definitively. First, all the constraints relating to recruitment of staff must be eliminated, from the evil 1.4% to all the others that exist and that concern not only Calabria, but all the Italian Regions; otherwise, even the extraordinary assumptions of the Covid plan cannot be realized. I really ask the government to make this choice as soon as possible. Secondly, it is enough with the accounting phase of health care. The problem of Calabria (and not only Calabria) is not just the budget deficit. The first problem in Calabria is that there are no essential levels of assistance and one cannot have an attitude that starts from the wrong side, that is from the resources. First of all, we need to build a system that can ensure the essential levels of assistance. Thirdly, there is a need for action on training. We need a new strategic relationship between university and health; we do not have doctors, but we do not have health directors, we do not have company directors, we do not provide them, there is no awareness, there is no training on general medical doctors. We need to make a qualitative leap. The fourth point concerns prevention and the territory, which are fundamental to reorganizing the system: without a reorganization of the system, using new technologies, such as telemedicine, we will not go anywhere, even after Covid. In this regard mobility must be regulated, because the accounting attitude involves the closure of hospitals in Calabria or Molise and then the citizens of those Regions go to care in Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna or in other Regions. You know how crazy this is. Colleagues, the idea that I propose to you is to think of an overall reform of the system. We need to act on recovery funds, investments and strategy. As far as the recovery fund is concerned, we must go far beyond the 9 billion envisaged and build a reform strategy, starting from one point. We have seen the complexity, the criticality of the relationship between the State and the Regions; we will have the opportunity to discuss the reform of Title V, on which certainly we must intervene, but we do a health reform based on reorganization; we desume the fundamental principles on which all the Regions must correspond. Without this we would always be faced with the contradictions we have encountered in recent months. The reason we find ourselves in this absolutely critical dynamic between the state and the regions is that it is not clear who does what. However, since the health system is national, it is the State that must have the shared facility and it is the Regions that have to deal with the management. Let us try to make this effort together with the whole of Parliament. I have already proposed a moment of reflection on health in this House. Let us make this reflection in such a way as to measure ourselves also with respect to the different positions between majority and opposition and between the different political forces. We build this moment of reflection because health care, sometimes, is like football: everyone does his training, but health first of all is competence and we must demonstrate that we have competence to start the discussion and reform, as is necessary, health in our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u29	Senator Errani, I listened carefully to your speech. If you will allow me a joke, for those of our generation it is clear who Nembo Kid is, but under the age of fifty nobody knows. His name is Superman now. I say this because my secretary asked me: who is Nembo Kid? I'm just kidding.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u32	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, the central theme of the measure is undoubtedly the management of the Calabrian public health and the examination of the bill of conversion of the decree-law, which we are dealing with today, has exceptional measures obviously and, therefore, with limited time for the administration of the Calabrian public health system. The period of applicability of the decree-law must be understood until the objectives are achieved and, however, for a period not exceeding twenty-four months, given the criticisms that have been made for the further decree and with which we wondered what we would do with it. There is a time limit from the date of entry into force, i.e. from this examination. So, we have two years to control what's going on. I remember the previous decree, because we had made another one, indeed, and the strong limitations contained in it with respect to the assumptional possibility, that, instead, in this is granted within some limits for the attainment of the essential levels of assistance, that unfortunately in this Region have always been very disappointed. Over time - as my colleagues have also said - that this region has been in the process of being a commissioner for the regional health system since 2009 - there have been disconcerting failures, such as the absence of certified budgets and the existence of organisational models more aimed at abandoning than to reorganize, obviously making it impossible to see recognized the rights guaranteed by Article 32 of our Constitution. The general context of the Calabria Region highlights a health system that, even if subjected - as I said - to return plans for many years, still presents a serious situation and, even, a worsening of some indicators, a lack of territorial assistance, resulting in an increase in hospitalization rates, the number of beds not available, hospitals that have not yet been completed and that are inefficient. A lot of resources have never been spent. In these years delays have accumulated and with this decree we want to create the conditions to be able to spend these resources as fast and effective as possible. For this reason, the provisions of Articles 1 to 7 of the decree are foreordained to achieve these aims. It is necessary to put this administrative and management disorder in order, which has highlighted cases of overlapping of criminal interest that justify extraordinary intervention and make it necessary to intervene towards immediate discontinuity in order to ensure those famous essential levels of assistance also for the calabre citizens. Today, therefore, in the absence of other legal instruments - I remember that the other decree ended its effectiveness because it lasted eighteen months - we are faced with a state of necessity, which is considered by the guidelines of the decree with a strengthening of the functions of the commissioner ad acta and the other extraordinary commissioners in the role of Invitalia as well as of the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas). The new commissioner ad acta appointed by the Government will, in fact, be called to implement the objectives provided for by the operational programmes for the continuation of the plan of return of the deficits of the health service of Calabria, to ensure the fulfilment of the essential levels, the structural strengthening of the hospital network, of the emergencies-urgencies and also of the infrastructures of places of intensive and subintensive care. At the head of the commissioner - I have to say with great difficulty, as we have also seen during the identification phase - there is today a man of the institutions, the former prefect Guido Longo, who knows the territory well, a man who has made the fight against organized crime his mission and in whom we place not only the utmost trust, but also gratitude for not having escaped from such a burdensome commitment. We hope that you will be able to use competent collaborators and subcommissaries who know what it means to talk about health management, the rules of public administration and also the addresses of the Ministry. The objective underlying the measure under consideration is to strengthen a path aimed at a first removal of the main critical factors, endowing the Commissioner to acta with extraordinary powers that allow certain and defined times and the restoration of that administrative and management normality of which the vice minister Sileri has spoken before, guaranteeing transparency in the health sector and thus overcoming bureaucratic and environmental obstacles. The Commissioner ad acta in the performance of his duties may use the Guardia di Finanza corps, including to counter violations or the prejudice of economic and financial interests. However, centrality lies at the head of the Ministry of Health and there are many constraints that have to be introduced, so that there is never a void of responsibility. In this case it was a choice of the State, which also allocates its own resources (60 million for three years) together with the other Regions, an important collaboration to restore a debt that one day we will know how much it really amounts. We need a season of certified budgets and competent people who support the activities and, above all, defined and remunerated responsibilities for what will be achieved. Calabrian health care must take on a very difficult challenge, made even more complicated, but not impossible, from this period of pandemic, in which all structures are already put to the test. The challenge is that from the opaque managements and collusion of the past finally with this decree we can channel Calabrian health into a condition of normality, that normality that means recognition of an action of investments in the field of health through human resources, structures and technological systems, that does not mean investing only in the field of health, but in health. Normality would in fact have good health because it is invested in prevention, taking care of the non-sufficiencies, chronicities, vaccinations and all that is well defined in the chapters of the levels of health care. The hope is to start well, making sure that everyone feels involved in a collegiality and a mission that cannot fail, because this is not just a Calabrian challenge, but of the whole of Italy. We must regain confidence in the institutions, which for many Calabrians has been lost for years now. I believe that this is an important challenge for us and Italy, even in the face of what is emerging at this time with the pandemic emergency. This is why the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the measure under consideration and the question of trust is announced. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u35	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder how long this Commission will continue to make choices on the part of its citizens. Calabria is by far the Italian Region with the worst health system. During these years of the police station, there were very heavy bed cuts (reduced by 40% between 2000 and 2013) and health care staff (less 17 percent between doctors, nurses and health workers between 2010 and 2017). In Calabria there are no doctors, nurses, operators, but also ambulances, consultors, medical studies and this is well known to the citizens of Calabria. In 2016, in fact, as Vice Minister Sileri recalled, one in five citizens moved to other Italian regions for hospitalization. The Court of Auditors' audit section spoke of the collapse of Calabrian health care to show that nothing is right in the health system. There has been talk of health disease precisely because in the last eleven years of the commissioning the health deficit of the Region has been reduced by only 6.2 million euros. Think that it was the Calabrian citizens who, through financial sacrifices, with the payment of the Irpef and IRAP tributes, contributed to the reduction of the debt. [[Applause.]] However, this is at the expense of the appropriate health services they have been deprived of. The main consequence is the lack of continuity in the provision of health services concerning the essential levels of care (LEA), as several colleagues have pointed out. Think that the healthy years of life of Calabrian citizens is an average of 52 years, compared to 67.7% of citizens living in Trentino-Alto Adige. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]] and despite the very worrying picture, on 4 November, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from President Conte and Minister Hope, approved the measure that we are preparing to vote on today. Although we are faced with a clear example of malasanity, with essential levels of care below the threshold of sufficiency, which do not guarantee citizens the right to health, the proposal is to continue with failure, with the failure system in order not to solve the long-standing and worrying problem. The total failure of the Commissioner's management is clear, although the decree provides for the strengthening of the powers of the Commissioner ad acta, with the task of implementing the operational programmes to continue the plan of return from the deficits of the Regional Health Service. All this, of course, in order to achieve the objective of financial, economic and accounting rebalancing. Of course, we wish the former prefect, Dr. Longo, the work in Catanzaro, where the Covid plan is the priority. But let us also listen to the words of Gino Strada, founder of Emergency, who says that Calabrian health care needs a real revolution. The problem of the Calabria Region is structural. The system must be changed, giving more power to the Region and not to task forces or commissioners [[Applause),]] sent by the Government to buffer the situation, with disastrous concessions that do nothing but in debt even more public health and the Region itself. The Calabrians must regain confidence in their health system, starting with training, as proposed by Amendment 6.0.1, by Mrs Cantù, which has been transformed into the Health Commission on an agenda approved by the whole centre-right. This proposal envisages rethinking the system of specializations for specialist training contracts for specialist doctors, with training and practicing, teaching hospital and telemedicine under the guidance of senior tutors recognized by the Council of the School of Specialization. The model should be extended to include specializations in all professions of health, biologists, pharmacists, dental practitioners, veterinarians, physicists and chemists. All this in order no longer to be in the absence of human material formed and qualified. [[Applause.]] In a world that goes very fast and that unfortunately is also overwhelmed by epochal events, such as the pandemic we are experiencing, we cannot afford to impose limitations especially in the field of health. It is unthinkable that in the area of health there are situations which are unclear and do not correspond to the same needs. I am referring, for example, to the updating of the National Register of Directors-General of Health Companies, which is updated every two years. An enormity of time in relation to the moment we are living. The possibility of an update with an annual deadline would be the need for many realities, including the Sardinian one, with the possibility to insert new resources indispensable for the revival of the national health system, especially in those most fragile regions such as Calabria that, after the period of the commissioner ad acta, will have the need to be able to choose qualified managers to whom to entrust the guide of the regional health companies. These are just some of the improvements that we would have liked them to be heard. Mr President, members of the Government, every act of yours is characterized by smoky interventions, with decree-laws that turn into empty boxes, light years away from real problems. Again, we would like to change something, without changing anything and persevering on a failed model, at the expense of the Calabrian people who once again find themselves paying on their skin the malasanity and inability of the Government, to which we ask to resign. [[Applause]] That is why, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I am voting against this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u38	SICLARI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, my fellow senators, the year that is coming to an end has put a strain on the whole world, distorting the habits of each man and the plans of each country. 2020 is the year where the imponderable happened: a tireless virus physically spaced people and made the geographical borders of every single country insurmountable, raising invisible barriers; it caused the most serious global economic crisis since the post-war period and led China to be the largest economic power in the world in record time. It is the year in which the health system of every single country has been put in crisis and has seen the loss of the lives of millions of our fellow citizens, medical colleagues, nurses, operators and health technicians, to whom our heartfelt thought and thanks go. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, by making the explanation of vote on behalf of the Forza Italia Group - and I thank President Bernini for that - and by discussing the so-called Calabria Decree, I cannot fail to recall the friend, a brave, strong and loyal fighter with the Calabrians and everyone, Jole Santelli. [[Applause]] However, I must say that, with this measure on which trust has been placed and which will be approved today, 2020 will also be remembered of the Calabrians as the year in which the State, through the Government, decreed the Calabria daughter of no one and orphan State. In all this, the Calabrians feel like children of a minor god. This happens just as Europe, considered great, giant, distant and cold compared to the needs of European citizens, under continuous political input - also by our leader Silvio Berlusconi and the vice president of the European People's Party Antonio Tajani - manages to give, at the most difficult moment of its history, through the Vax-day, the day of vaccination, a great lesson of solidarity, union, hope, life and respect for every single European citizen in the face of the right to health: exactly what the Calabrians have been asking for for for eleven years and which the Government today does not want to recognize and give. [[Applause]] It is in the same direction as Europe that our party has always worked and continues to work today, always with Vice-President Tajani, who presented the proposal for the creation of a true European Health Union through the creation of a European Institute for Research, so that the objective can be achieved in the same way to protect the health of all European citizens belonging to the various 27 Member States, poor or rich, strong and less strong. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the umpteenth confidence that you put to the bill of conversion of the so-called Calabria decree shows that the will, the political maturity, the institutional determination and perhaps also the love for the weakest part of our country have been lacking, in order to put an end to a film - seen and revised, which has lasted for eleven years and which we will see again in the next two years - that turns on the skin of Italian citizens living in Calabria, who suffer and live on their skin a social and health injustice for eleven years. [[Applause]] To return to the Calabria decree, I would like to know by what logic you are proposing a decree that has proved its complete failure, including through the various national televisions; a decree that is nothing more than the extension of the Commissioner's instrument that we are criticizing so much and that we continue to criticize in this House, from the benches of the majority, but that is confirmed. Let's talk about that Calabria decree you presented two years ago in magna pump, even in Reggio Calabria. I am sure that this year, out of respect for the Calabrians - I know you respect the Calabrians - after you have approved the Calabria decree, you will not go for a walk on the beautiful seafront of our city, Reggio Calabria. I'm sure at least this walk this year will be avoided. We are talking about that Calabria decree that in two years has brought 21 indicators that measure the health efficiency of a Region to record values so poor that, despite Calabria perhaps the Region with less contagion and less death from Covid, has suffered the humiliation of being decreed red zone for the inability and the impossibility to assist the Calabrian patients. [[Applause]] We are talking about that Calabria decree that does not like health experts, called by Prime Minister Conte to be appointed commissioners who, once read the Calabria decree, were forced to give up that position, and we had to attend the ballets for the appointment of the commissioner. [[Applause]] Colleagues, what I cannot explain is also how it is possible that in nine months changes the world; changes the history of the world and of individual countries; changes also the history of Europe, which suddenly materializes and manages to agree 27 countries members of different stories and cultures, with 24 different languages spoken in the European Parliament, to protect 446 million European citizens, while this country, which knows very well the problems of a difficult and complex territory, has not undertaken in two years to find a real solution to solve the health emergency and the right to health of Calabrians. [[Applause]] I can't handle it. Yet in the small, in everyday life, an entrepreneur - even a family, but above all we speak of companies and therefore of enterprise - to make strategic assessments of the decisions to be made, evaluates the historian of the last two years of activity of a company; evaluates the effectiveness of governance; evaluates the strategic choices made in recent years and those to be made in the following years and then makes the choices that are needed to make winning that company. I wonder why a government, which instead has the responsibility to guarantee the rights enshrined in the Constitution, and above all the right to health, which is the only right flanked by the adjective "fundamental" (Article 32 of the Constitution), has not committed itself - for me the political debate, the confrontation has been neither in the Commission nor in this House, because there is a majority - and has not wanted to find a confrontation to guarantee the right to health in Calabria, perhaps even today, after eleven years, the same instrument that has proven to fail every year. And the question is not the Commissioners: it is the Commissioner's instrument that does not work. In eleven years of government they have been appointed commissioners and in the last two years we have witnessed the affair of Commissioner Cotticelli. We are talking about eleven years of increasing regional extras for Calabrian citizens, who pay taxes to finance the regional health service, but who do not provide health care. [[Applause]] ; 11 years of increase in health migration forced on those Calabrians who are forced to take care elsewhere because they do not find assistance in Calabria; 11 years of management deficit caused by the Commissioners, 11 years in which the State has never sorted the accounts and, therefore, the responsibility is not of the Calabrians: it is the Commissioners who have never presented the budgets in these eleven years, not the Calabrians. [[Applause.]] eleven years that have created the lack of 1,400 doctors and 2,800 health workers; eleven years of health injustice; eleven years of employment of our right to health. This decree didn't work, it doesn't work and it won't work. The government wants to convince the Calabrians that they are going in the right direction, but the Calabrians have now understood that it is on the same treadmill as eleven years ago: it says to go ahead, but it remains still. He has never set the course to really follow in order to reach the goal long awaited by Calabria. This decree represents not a cure for Calabrian health, but a palliative to distract citizens from their pain, caused by the absence of the State. Finally, with regard to the Calabria decree, I greet Doctor Longo with esteem, servant of the State who - let me say this - would deserve a medal only for having accepted the assignment. Being a man of the State, with a great sense of responsibility and respect for the institutions he said yes to Conte, certainly with the will to do good to Calabria. As you know, I have argued that the Commissioner must be an expert in health management and planning, to reorganize the hospital sector, the general medicine of the territory, integrated home care, telemedicine. Our defense of the right to health does not begin today, but it started as early as 2018. On 5 June of that year, at the time of the government's presentation in this House, we called for the end of the police station. We asked for this on May 14, 2019, during a press conference with Anna Maria Bernini, presenting amendments to the first Calabria decree. We also asked for this on 18 June of that year, with the first event organized in Piazza Montecitorio in Rome, which was attended by Calabrian citizens, doctors and health workers. Now we, the Calabrian parliamentarians, are also disappointed for the umpteenth opportunity lost by this Government. Finally, your vaccination plan does not work and will not work, because, if you want to vaccinate - as you announced - 80% of the Italian population by the beginning of the new school year, i.e. by September, it means that 110 million vaccines are needed for 50 million Italian citizens. In nine months, from now to September, vaccines must be inoculated to 400,000 people per day for two hundred and seventy days. Basically, it takes 400,000 vaccines a day and not 400,000 vaccines a week. Regarding the Calabria decree and the vaccination plan, considering that the 21 parameters that measure the efficiency of the quality of health care have resulted completely negative, it means that in the vaccination plan must be given priority to Calabria, because the citizens do not have the structures to care for and cannot suffer yet another humiliation decreeing the red zone. Mr President, the first thing we will do, when we are in the government of the centre-right, will be to put an end to this humiliation towards the Calabrians, to Calabria and to their right to health! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u41	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Calabrian Health Commission has had far-reaching roots. It has been going on - as has already been said - for eleven years. Despite the efforts made so far, the results obtained are rather poor, and the Calabrian citizens have been paying for years the mistakes of those who have administered them. Without going far, I read some excerpts from the report written by the magistrate Stefania Anna Dorigo, on the occasion of the conference of the Court of Auditors on the judgment of equalization of the general statement of the Calabria Region. For the financial year 2019, the health deficit to be covered has been reduced, in absolute value, by only 6,291 million euros, from more than 104 million euros, to 31 December 2009, to 98 million euros at 31 December 2019. The inhabitants of Calabria have been filling for ten years a financial sinkhole that grows and feeds from year to year. However, in the face of financial sacrifices, the citizens themselves do not have adequate health services. Remember - Dorigo has remembered - that the essential levels of assistance are judged adequate when they reach a score of 160 or a level comprised between 140 and 170 in the absence of criticality. Well, after many years, only in 2018 the Calabria Region seems to have reached an adequate overall score of 162, which still betrays numerous anomalies, such as inadequate cancer screening and lack of beds. Health in Calabria continues to be a veritable chasm and the commissioners who succeeded each other, who - it should be remembered - had been called as an original task to restore precisely the financial aspects of the sector, despite eighteen closed hospitals, the blockage of turnover and indiscriminate cuts, have not achieved any significant objective, giving to the pandemic emergency of the coronavirus a health that was already in intensive care. That's why Calabria ended up in the red zone. Anomalous management of Calabrian health for the Court of Auditors lies in the management of disputes. The health companies of the Region have paid for interest and legal expenses - writes the president of the Calabria section of the Court of Auditors Vincenzo Lo Presti - beyond 23 million euros in the exercise 2018 and beyond 32 million euros in the exercise 2019. It is clear that, if payments had been timely, these amounts (a total of over €55 million) could have been intended to increase health benefits rather than - as unfortunately happened - to compensate creditors for the delay in paying their claims. And that is only with regard to bad management. But there is much more: two ASPs for Mafia infiltrations, that of Catanzaro and that of Reggio Calabria, and an investigation that led to arrests at the top of the hospital company in Cosenza, with accusations of false material committed by official public and office abuse. The decree of dissolution of the ASP Reggina speaks of the presence of relatives of leading figures of the organized underworld, prejudiced with assignments in the same company; lack of regular procedures in the custody of contracts and works; failure to supervise the real estate: a long and detailed list of hypothesis of crime, that reveals a very compromised situation, that has led to the commissioning of the agency. In the intercepts about the hospital company in Cosenza, instead, there is talk of a bribe of hundreds of thousands of euros of Coopservice. Surveys show that more than 177,000 hours of paid and never done work, compared with real hours carried out less than 132,000 minimum annual hours provided for in the contract specifications. Then we have the president of the Regional Council of Calabria Tallini, involved in the investigation of the drug business of the Grande Aracri cosca of Cutro. Tallini was placed under house arrest, accused of crimes of external competition in Mafia association and political-mafia electoral exchange. According to the accusation, Tallini's relations with Cosca Grande Aracri were concerned with the establishment of a company based in Catanzaro aimed at the wholesale distribution of medicinal products through a network of outlets consisting of pharmacies and parapharmacies. Tallini would provide support to the cosca, especially during the various stages of the project's start-up, and his intervention would also be reciprocated with the support of the cosca in the regional elections of 2014. The politician's contribution would have been decisive in promoting and accelerating the initial bureaucratic process in order to obtain the necessary authorizations for the establishment of the company for the distribution of medicinal products. And I've only been limited to the chronicle of the last few months. How long will it take to fix this mess? That's a lot. The last 18 months of the previous police station and the powers given were not enough. So, we need more time and more tools, which we make available in this decree-law. The new Commissioner Longo will have a lot to do and started off on the right foot; he has already highlighted many problems and accounting, economic and financial disorder. The documents relating to the adoption of the budgets are missing: that of 2018 for the ASP of Cosenza and even from 2013 to 2017 for that of Reggio Calabria. I would like to remind Senator Siclari that this lack concerns the Directors-General of that ASP and not the Commissioner appointed by the Government. The ASP of Reggio Calabria itself is the real black hole of Calabrian health and the new Commissioner asked for detailed reports on these deficiencies, to be produced in a very short time, with written documents and not with oral reports. Calabrian citizens deserve more: they deserve hospitals that are functioning and clean, provided with everything they need and with adequate staff. Health professionals deserve to work in the right conditions so that they can carry out such important and sensitive activities. The sick deserve to find answers and care near home, without having to migrate far away. With the decree-law in question we take a step forward and provide tools so that everything that seems normal for a citizen of Bologna from tomorrow is also normal for a citizen of Crotone. However, bad management - to say the least - is so widespread and rooted that a single man, a Longo, might not be enough. There is a need for honest Calabrians, who are a silent majority, to team up with him and finally rebel to what seems to be an inevitable destiny. We, for our part, do everything we can, including by voting in favour of this measure. You remember who has brought your health to this state! The Movimento 5 Stars, since it is in the government, has reversed the course of the cuts that have followed over the years, and not only, because the decree-law in question is the continuation of what has already been started with Minister Grillo. In fact, the decree-law speaks of resources, because the Ministry of Health will be able to authorize the Commissioner ad acta to adopt a plan of extraordinary recruitment of medical, health and social-sanitary personnel, also for the field of emergency and urgency, using first of all the suitable rankings in force, with a cost of 12 million euros, starting from 2021. Today everyone is filling their mouths by talking about resources to be given to health care, but we have seen that in the last ten years successive governments have cut about EUR 37 billion. Health needs not propaganda, but investment policies, planning and guaranteeing the services that will reach the citizens, through the strengthening of territorial medicine, through the strengthening of the public and a management that certainly cannot be at different speeds, as we have also seen in these months; why the next step will be to rethink Title V of the Constitution, in order to finally give every Italian citizen the same opportunities for care. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u44	[[Comments.]] Colleagues, why are you surprised? It's not even an absolute novelty. PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, it is dissent that bothers me and I understand that. Colleagues, you have spoken of health and hospital excellence in Calabria... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u45	Colleagues, let the speaker speak quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u46	Senator Paragon, please speak to the presidency. PARAGO (Mixed). You talked about health and hospital excellence in Calabria. You have stressed the sacred right of Calabrian citizens to fully enjoy the constitutional right to health. But then, when it came to naming yet another commissioner, you showed all your confusion. I'm not going to stand here and remember what kind of beast - to use an expression dear to Giampaolo Pansa - you put on the field and the delay with which you removed it. That's not just the point, though. You speak of revitalising health and professionalism, but what is the profile of the Commissioner chosen? It's an ex-chief. So, let's recapitulate: to govern the health of Calabria with the powers of the commissioner there is a policeman; to lead the People's Bank of Bari you have put a super-cop, Giovanni De Gennaro; the tensions within the majority concern the control of the secret services and that is why you are intolerant to dissent. I would therefore like to understand whether you plan to deploy the Army when the citizens want to defend their rights; whether you will take it against those who will defend the work, against those who will ask not to shut down their activities, against those who will also ask to know the truth about your responsibilities on Covid. Finally, I want to know if you're gonna join the Army against who's gonna stand up to yet another mandatory vaccine, because you want the mandatory vaccine to make yet another gift to the drug's multinationals. I remind you that in the black hole of Calabria there are also ridges made to pay two or three times for sanitary products. Calabria needs not to close hospitals and needs more public health, but with what money do you want to do it if you are in Europe's accounting system? Italexit therefore votes against your decree-law which is still behind accounting logic and, above all, humiliates the serious and prepared professionals that there are in Calabria, professionals who will have to measure with a former commissioner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u47	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u48	I would like to point out the vote on the single article of bill No 2045 of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 150 of 10 November 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. It's not a Christmas bingo, but almost. (The name of Senator Bergesio is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Bergesio, whose name is similar to that of a famous Argentine center forward. GINETTI, secretary, make the appeal. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Botto, Bress, Bucharella Country, Carbone, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Donno, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fattori, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Flori, Floridia Gallicchio, Drago, Durnwaler Loveri, Garrudi, Evangelista Faraone, Fede, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrari Senators say no: Aimi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Balboni, Barachini, Barboni, Battistoni, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Borgoni, Bossi Simone, Bruzzone Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Casolati, Causin, Ciriani, Corti Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Carlo, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis, Doria Fazzolari, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fusco Gallone, Gasparri, Giamanco, Giarrusso, Giro, Grassi Iannone, Iwobi La Pietra, Russa, Lucidi, Lunesu Maffffoni, Magorno, Malan, Mangialavori, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Messina Alfredo, Minuto, Modena, Modena, Moles, Moles, Moles, Mouse, Moes, Mouse, Mouse, Mouse, Moes, Lucini, Lucini, Lucini, Lucini, Parilini, Pari The senators are abstaining: De Falco. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - 11:47 a.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2045, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 150 of 10 November 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 267 Senators voting 267 Majority 134 Favorable 149 Contrari 117 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 150. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 1.30 p.m. with the discussion of the draft budget law. (The sitting was suspended at 12.03 p.m. and resumed at 13.32 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2054, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u50	Mr President, 322 amendments have been tabled by the Groups in the Commission, which unfortunately took note of the fact that the deadlines imposed by the Conference of Leaders, but also for the approval of any changes to the budget, were not compatible with that number. Therefore, by common agreement between the groups, it was preferable not to proceed with the examination of the amendments and arrive in the Chamber without having given a mandate to the rapporteur. With great regret I refer to this Commission decision, first of all hoping that next year will be a better year, without too many unexpected events as has happened in the current one, but above all that there will be an optimization of the times, depending on a properly carried out parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u53	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, because I have noted the inability, for reasons of time and not for anything else, of the Commission to examine the amendments. I would remind President Pesco that even if the amendments had been 20, instead of more than 300, it would have been the same: there would have been no time to discuss them or even less to evaluate them, certainly not because of a lack by the opposition of the so-called constructive climate, but simply because it is the first time, as I said yesterday, that the economic maneuver arrived at second reading on 28 December (it was announced yesterday). Mr President, even in the light of the government's announcement of a corrective decree-law for economic maneuvering (and it is incredible that the Senate has not yet approved it and the Government has already announced a corrective decree-law), because there seems to be errors to be corrected, I think it would be appropriate for the Government to explain to Parliament what they are. We cannot discuss, in fact, or even make assessments, without understanding what kind of mistakes we are talking about. Imagine a situation of this kind in reverse: on 28 December the maneuver arrives at second reading and the Government announces a corrective decree-law, which will be approved by the next Council of Ministers, because the maneuver has something that from the substantive point of view, in fact, does not square. I imagine the interventions of the current Undersecretary, Senator Misiani, the strangles of the leader Marcucci and of the other representatives of the current majority on the inadequacy of the Government in presenting a budgetary maneuver. Amateurs to the mess: this is the least you would have told us if we had been in the government. [[Applause]] I hear about recovery plans, MES, Sure and Europe, but, gentlemen, let's start learning how to make budget laws first. [[Applause]] Then we will think about the projects and resources that Europe gives us, because if we are not able to make a budgetary manoeuvre, I seriously doubt that we can think of planning future investments on the basis of European rules. We really made a fool of ourselves in front of the whole of Europe. This is intolerable and it is the least that the Government explains the error that appears to be in the maneuvering in our examination (which, from what we understand from the leaked news, seems to be substantial) in such a way that we know, we say and everyone can actually know what is happening in Parliament, but above all how this Government is operating. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u56	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I join Mr Romeo's remarks and, of course, Mr Pesco's regret for not having been able to examine the amendments in the Commission, but not only. It seems that in the provision that came to us from the House there is no complete coverage of some parts. This poses a major problem and vulnus, because, if the measure is not fully covered, we are talking about a deviation, in order to vote in favour of which the absolute majority is necessary and the ordinary majority would no longer be sufficient. I submit this point to the presidency of the Senate and of course to the majority and the government. That is why I agree with the request for clarification to know what the questions were, also because, between the 350 pages of the technical report and the 1,150 paragraphs of the measure, it was not possible to identify on time - and possibly to discuss - the elements of amendment. The fundamental point, however, also with regard to the constitutional path, is the possibility of a deviation, which, according to Law No 243 of 2012, which strengthens Article 81 of the Constitution, provides for the vote the necessity of an absolute majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, in the very role that is yours, it is not the Presidency's position on the substance of the specific content of the individual measures, for which, of course, the Government assumes every responsibility, including in its relations with Parliament. On the other hand, with regard to the future measures of government initiative - which is also in the case of matters - every evaluation will be carried out in the appropriate forms and fora. Of course, as you know, the Government will be able to intervene during the sitting and also at the outcome of the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u60	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, our Parent Company has made a clear and explicit request, namely an intervention by the Government, which, as we know, can intervene at any stage of the debate, so that it can report a very important fact. We did not want the answer from you, Mr President, because you do not have the responsibility of the decree-law that corrects the maneuver; someone else has it, the Government, and being here the Vice-Minister Misiani, who is responsible for the economy, we ask that he give us an answer. It's obvious. He cannot settle such a serious matter by intervening on his part, which does not clarify anything. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u61	Forgive me, Senator Tosato, I do not want to interrupt you, but if you had followed my brief remarks with completeness, you would have noticed that I have specified precisely the burden and the power of the Government not only within the framework of the legislative initiative within your competence, but also in the intercourse with Parliament, starting, of course, from today's forum in the course of the debate. Clearly you can ask, not obligate, so it remains in the faculty of the government interloquire and answer. [[Comments]] It seems to me that I have made it very clear: the Government will have the power to intervene when it considers it appropriate. In relation to Senator Pesco's report, the draft law No 2054, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, not even oral, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u62	Mr President, a clue is a clue, two clues are a coincidence, but three clues give evidence. Here, today, reading the text of the draft budget law, which, moreover, has been submitted to us hastily, we have had the proof, but above all the Italians have had it, on which its effects will fall: the text no longer has any political line aimed at the growth of the country nor its future vision. Still, we have had proof of the government's inability to manage the serious pandemic crisis both on the health and on the economic front, throwing the country into an obvious social imbalance, breaking it in half, sinking entire productive sectors, with measures that, despite our continuous cries of alarm of the past months, remained faultily unheard, were completely insufficient, because based on a principle of mere welfare, absolutely unproductive and ineffective. On the other hand, what could we expect from a government whose relative majority party has approved the greatest indiscriminate welfare measure that our country has ever seen and whose results are now before everyone? They have unfortunately proved its complete failure, both in social and economic terms; it is now news, they are facts. Today, because of the written choices of the Government and its majority, we have two Italies: there is that of those who perceive the income of citizenship and that, because of the delays and flaws of the administrations that have been unable to guarantee their job relocation, has not suffered any prejudice from this pandemic, staying comfortably seated on the couch, then in some cases allowing even some extra work in black. Then there is Italy of the productive fabric, the backbone of each country, which has been strongly compromised, not to say torn apart. I am thinking of the restaurateurs, traders, artisans, freelancers, small and medium-sized enterprises, the business world, agents of commerce, VAT matches in general, which in a proud and dignified way, but at the same time with strength and tenacity, have asked the Government for a very simple thing, the one on which our Republic is founded: to be able to work. It was not enough to waste 140 billion with the various decrees-restorations that followed, whose only result was to humiliate them even more, having obtained miserable tips completely useless even to cover the fixed costs. After eight months from the start of the state of emergency, we returned to the starting point [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u63	Colleagues, we are few, but very noisy, and the colleague can not complete the intervention quietly, so I would ask you to reduce the buzz. However, I do not want my recommendations to fall into the void of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u64	PETRENGA (FdI). Mr President, I was saying that, eight months after the beginning of the pandemic, we have returned to the starting point again, with entire production categories that are now underwhelmed, because they are unable to leave and with the workers in the middle of the road, increasing the five million new poor. The draft budget law devotes additional resources to countering the effects of Covid on our economy, but it is difficult to identify a clear direction of growth for Italy. Once again, we are witnessing the re-emergence of the basic principle of this Government: unproductive assistanceism. Once again, the old habit of fragmenting about 40 billion of the maneuver into too many streams, which are dispersed into so many new funds with little multiplier effect on growth, emerges. Now it is clear: what matters is to throw smoke in the eyes of Italians with various bonuses and lotteries, which certainly cannot represent the structural measures that our country needs. In our view, this is not a development in line with what is advanced in the DEF Update Note, nor in the budget policy document. For example, we feel that the annual percentage change in GDP 2020 is unlikely to stop at less than 9%. It is undeniable that this situation is due in large part to the outbreak of the serious epidemic that our country has suffered and is continuing to suffer, but it is equally true that the current one is a consequence of the improvisation, the improvisation and the delays with which the Government has faced the first wave, but above all the second one, which, unlike the first one, was largely anticipated. This too is not a mere consideration, but the sad reality. It is proof that it took three decree-laws to find resources, with an additional net debt of 100 billion euros to face the economic and health crisis, with the result not exactly flattering that in the Eurozone Italy is the country with the largest increase in debt, third last in the recovery of GDP. Only Spain and Portugal have done worse than us. Our judgment on this budget law can only be negative: it is a maneuver worth just under 40 billion, 23 of which come from additional deficits and the remaining 17 from the resources of the European recovery plan (although, in the state, these are only expected and desirable). In fact, we are already talking about a new budgetary deviation that was uploaded to 2021, which could be worth about 20 billion additional deficits and is associated with an average annual increase in GDP likely to be less than 6%. Once again, the government has shown itself to chase the virus and its effects, not to anticipate them. What is being brought to this House is yet another emergency manoeuvre. Instead, we would have expected a restart, but it was not, because of the ideological prejudices of the Government and its majority, based on the illusion that assistantism is a solution, rather than creating work, investment and, therefore, development. Mr President, for these reasons we shall vote against this law and perhaps the government, together with the health vaccine, should start to think about the economic one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u65	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u66	Mr President, having just a few minutes, my speech will be shorter. Colleagues, a very intense year closes, in which Parliament has fought tenaciously to safeguard its role. We no longer count the decree-laws that we have converted and the money that we have helped to allocate to deal with the consequences of the pandemic on the lives of citizens, families, businesses and, not least, workers. These were important maneuvers, and the budget law is now being added to them. The numbers I'm going to talk about, however, do not correspond only to the sums of money. Thirty-four are the children and girls who, despite the pandemic, are still in prison and thirty-one are their mothers in prison. One and a half million euros for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 is the sum that is allocated to finance that law that for nine years provides that inmates mothers and their children should reside in protected homes-family, to prevent even one child from crossing the prison threshold. I remember that we are talking about children from zero to three years old and, in the painful case of the absence of families who can welcome them, their detention can be up to six years old. We have repeatedly called for full implementation of this law and now it can finally and fully deploy its effects. It is a first, small step towards an indispensable goal of civilization. The health emergency has had dramatic effects in Italian prisons. Loneliness and isolation have been made even harder by the pandemic. The limitation of visits was only partially offset by the extension of the possibility of communication to the outside world. The suspension of training and cultural activities and of many others in support and support of prisoners and prisoners has put at risk the objective of the social reintegration of the deed, imposed by Article 27 of our Constitution. Health protection has not always been fully guaranteed. We are in pandemic times and health is a right for everyone. The concrete experience of life in prison has really impoverished to the extreme. Too little has been done - I stress - to make detention more bearable at this difficult time. There is much to be done, starting from the rapid adoption of the bill on affection in prison, a text urged by the guarantors for prisoners and for which, as rapporteur, I will fight. Justice, legality and security cannot exist, if the dignity of the people is violated, if the dignity of the prisoners is violated. That is why the rule introduced in the Chamber of Deputies is so important. It will at least ensure that mothers in prison and their children can leave the prison and be welcomed into protected family homes. The deadline for the adoption of the implementing decree is only two months. I am sure, colleagues of the 5 Stars, that Minister Bonafede will not disappoint me at least this time. Let's talk about two months: it will then be reduced to a minimum the time necessary to put this money to the ground. Those thirty-one mothers and those thirty-four children can no longer wait in prison, which is for them every day a painful and dramatic experience. [[Applause]] As I have already said, Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to deliver the written text of my full speech for the purpose of the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u67	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u69	Mr President, it is with great difficulty that I have to point out the lack of attention on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u70	I'm sorry, Senator Caliendo, but I'd like to call everyone back not to stand in front of the government benches. It is an invitation that I always make, both at the beginning of the sitting and during the proceedings, so that the representatives of the Government can follow the debate closely.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u71	Please, Senator, continue your speech. CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). I am sorry to have to raise, just before the Deputy Minister whom I appreciate more than this Executive, a question of institutional correctness, in a complex situation such as the current one, with reference in particular to the events that have accompanied the modalities of approval of the decree-laws and the draft law under consideration. It must be said that, in the face of the request for a specification and commitment by the Parent Company of the League, President Romeo, there was a need for an immediate response from the Government, since there was no correspondence with the rules of conformation of parliamentary activity: I remember that there are not even the rapporteurs and that the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, had to be limited only to a minimal account of the situations that have occurred. Then there is a problem of merit. The forecast balance of a company, but particularly of a state, is a vision, an indication that makes to those who have to invest, economic operators and entrepreneurs the image of a country in which they can activate. In the text that was fired from the House this image is not there and I say it regardless of their political position as a majority or as opposition. There is none of this: the provision is a coacervo of different norms from each other, which give no vision of the direction in which they want to go the country, the government and the majority. It is only an indication of small things, which may also have been introduced by an opposition party, but which do not give that overall view that our people and our citizens were entitled to have after the months of pandemics. I will just give two examples of the unpreparedness that emerges from the way we deal with the problems. But how do you propose in the provision the blockade of evictions? Excuse me, but probably the government ignores the activity of this country and what was the indication in the years of the well-being - so to speak - of the first Republic, of the Christian Democracy, when the citizens were invited to invest in the brick. The small and middle bourgeoisie bought one or two houses - or, better, apartments, not houses like palaces - to be used as a source of income in the elderly. What's the result? A eviction blocking measure that follows what had its own motivation, even if apparent, given by the pandemic. The rule in our examination does not even have that motivation and in fact arrives in June, while the forecasts on the development of the pandemic arrive until March. The question then is: is it ever possible that the Government does not know what has been the economic development of our country over the years? I am convinced that the Government actually has this vision, even if there is then a part of incompetents who believe that they can solve it all by forgetting the history and the events that accompany the human one, which must be taken into account. There is another aspect I would like to focus on. Thanks to the opposition, a rule of civilization is introduced in the budget law: those who are acquitted in criminal sentences and trials, must have a refreshment for the legal costs they have had to bear. Well this rule, which represents a figure of civilization, is accompanied by an economic coverage of eight million, a ludicrous figure, taking into account that it is a measure that is the compliant copy of a bill presented by me in this legislature, which had indicated - as a minimum - for the remaining period of 2018 the figure of 500 million euros and 900 million euros under regime, starting from the year 2019. Mr President, this rule has been covered with eight million and with the clarification that they will be satisfied only up to the level of that figure. This means introducing a sacrosanct principle, I mean even constitutional, and then making it nothing for completely insufficient coverage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u72	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u73	Mr President, we have come to the conclusion of Parliament's work for the year 2020, characterised by the coronavirus pandemic. We are about to vote on a budget law for 2021 in total absence of democracy. Senators will not be able to make changes through the amendments because of the question of trust that will be placed and voted favorably by the majority of the starred left. I disagree with the words of a colleague in the 5th Senate Commission, who said that democracy was respected, because the senators' amendments were sent to the party colleagues in the House of Deputies, who were able to present them on their behalf. Let us then discuss the fact that the Italian Parliament is bicameral, because, if that is the way to operate, we can pack our bags and, as unelected political representatives, report it to our fellow Members, who can table the amendments. The Senate doesn't need it anymore. [[Applause]] Is that it? The same went on to say that the sense of responsibility prevailed in order to avoid provisional exercise. I would add that it is also true that, in order to avoid the provisional exercise, everything must be voted on by 31 December 2020, but we must not talk about responsibility. The exercise of democracy has been denied to a part of Parliament and to us senators. The truth is that the government has left with great delay - indeed, enormous - because of the majority stakes and the desire to dismantle the security decrees, those strongly desired by the then Interior Minister Salvini. [[Applause]] In fact, the priority is to hit him, the League and the Italians, giving birth to a "clandestine decree" aimed at increasing the flow of foreigners to our Italy to feed the manger of the cooperatives engaged with the reception. What a democracy! [[Applause]] On the other hand, what could be expected? The assumptions were all there. Where is Minister Lamorgese, absent when the decree-law on urgent immigration and security provisions was discussed and converted here? You of the majority have swallowed up democracy to give priority to immigration. President Pesco also told all of us in the Budget Committee a moment ago that he will urge and prick the Government so that, during the next budget law, the time for discussion, which has always been done in both branches of Parliament, can be properly calculated with a possible third reading. Minister Lamorgese strongly wanted the revision of the security decrees, putting the government in trouble. I remember the spurring of the Guard of Finance by the NGO ship Sea-Watch, which put military, state servants and Italians in danger. It was a disgusting episode that saw the captain involved. Then what did the Minister think he would do? He thought of welcoming representatives of the NGO Sea-Watch to dialogue with us at the Viminale, as if a mayor of a municipality welcomed those who spurred the car of the Carabinieri of their territory. Shame! [[Applause]] You have deprived us of the possibility of amending the most important measure of the State, even if there would have been time, indeed. Speaking of time, I recall for the umpteenth time what was agreed upon in the maxi amendment tabled to last year's budget law. I have already spoken about this during the discussion of the so-called "restoration decrees," but I have decided that every time I make an intervention I will remind the Government of the issue of the obligation to expose the number of anti-violence 1522. In the course of this debate I would like and need to discuss with the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Bonetti family, whom I would like to present here, because it is a matter not of the League, but of everyone. I would also like to discuss the President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, Senator Valente. We have been working on this for a year. We started with a bill, the content of which was inserted, in the form of an amendment, in the last budget law (we have all decided it together and I have thus lost the authorship of the bill, but this does not interest me) to introduce the obligation of exposure in public places of the antiviolence number 1522. You know very well how important it is to support the women's world not only on the day dedicated to the fight against violence against women. We are now a year away from the next budget law, and nothing has yet been done to define a cartel with a DPCM. Don't tell me you need money, because you only need the will; the last of the teleworking officials can conceive a sign indicating the policies of the majority government. I hope something will be done because women, associations and equal opportunities committees expect it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u74	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u75	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, budget law is the most important law, which establishes how, how much and where public resources will be spent and how much tax revenue will be managed. And considering that this Government is characterized by an excessive recourse to decree-laws and a compulsive and illegitimate appeal to the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, the economic maneuver had to represent - as always, but more so than ever that of 2021 - the political identity card of the majority, with its idea of nation and an organic vision, of which it lacks instead. The House has been approved in haste and fury, with times of discussion compressed in the Commission, and arrives at the Senate, as is well known, an armored text on which parliamentary debate is prevented and requests approval in record time to avoid provisional exercise. You will come up with yet another vote of confidence, but Italy looks at you and judges you with us. It is a draft budget that is worth 40 billion, technically and politically wrong, which is not a synthesis, but a fragmentary sum of unproductive bonuses and micro-interventions among the most disparate, the result of compromises between the forces of majority and, one bonus after another, you want to throw sand in the eyes to hide the black holes and the big ones excluded from the maneuver, the stone conviviates, the most vulnerable and fragile groups hit by the pandemic, the least guaranteed, but also the cancer patients and children. On this I want to say one thing: in all these painful months, I have never heard words for children deprived of the freedom to play and socialize, to go to school in normality, I have not heard of psychological support not only for children, but also for the many adults, for whom the repercussions of the pandemic on the quality of life are important. But let's get back to the point, that is, the excluded. I am thinking of restaurateurs, tour operators, the whole industry, even the families of employees, the wedding industry and the sports sector. I'm thinking business. Confcommercio has told us that are approximately 390,000 the enterprises closed in 2020 for the emergency health and the contextual collapse of the consumptions. Among the sectors most affected are leisure, travel agencies, clothing and footwear, streetwalkers, catering and transport. And, once again, not me, but Confcommercio also denounces the loss of businesses related to self-employed workers and estimates the closure for about 200,000 professionals. Yet - and here comes the point - in ten months you have had about 140 billion available and spent, evidently spent in a thousand streams, because no category has been either refreshed or protected and poverty has increased: five million people live in absolute poverty without being able to meet the essential needs, to which are added the so-called new poor, and according to the Caritas 2020 report, comparing the period May-September 2019 with the same period of 2020, emerges an incidence of new poverty that goes from 31 percent to 45 percent. It is therefore a mystery of mathematics, before politics: what have you done with all this money for which we have indebted children, grandchildren and even great-grandchildren? Evidently, all expenses without criteria and priority hierarchies. And at the test bench that represents for all governments every financial maneuver, you have reached us with short breath, indeed with the breath on the neck of the internal divisions to the majority - threats, quarrels, blackmails - and the budget law is the mirror of all this. Then there is the drizzle of vouchers, I mention only four among the many: vouchers for taps, furniture, smartphone and for the replacement of the television. All this makes me think of the Latin term panem et circenses, in the sense of a demagogic political strategy, a distractor with respect to the deep economic crisis. Paradoxically, let me say that, in the end, the only good ideas are those coming from the oppositions and from the Brothers of Italy, who worked to improve this budget law. Among the many interventions, I am thinking of the increase of 50 million per year of the Fund on autism, the intervention for equal schools, our agendas on funds and powers for Rome Capital and the minimum contributory exemption INPS for traders and craftsmen: only a part of what was the contribution of the Brothers of Italy to the maneuver. In the maneuver there is something useful, certainly: the extension of the integration fund for employees, the integration fund for self-employed, professionals and VAT matches, but with a crowd of beneficiaries so limited that it will not solve the problem. You should have accepted our proposal on unique social shock absorbers. I come, then, to what you sell yourself as the king of the kings of maneuvering: the one check for the children. Given that the proposal has passed to the House with the unanimous vote (so, even with ours), I, before playing the trumpets, would be careful. In fact, you have allocated three billion, when everyone knows that at least six of them are needed to prevent families from being penalised by removing the existing system and introducing the one-off system. Do we want to say that or do we want to claim and praise this aspect? [[Applause]] Are we going to say that it will come in July and not in January? Can we say we don't know how much it is? At most, 250 euros. Do we want to say that quantification will be established at the end of the process of the draft law delegation and the consequent implementing decrees? Are we going to say that there must be tax reform first? Don't sell yourself what you haven't given to families yet. I mean, let's hope so. Meanwhile, there is certainly that you have only allocated four billion for health care, that you continue to throw millions for the Dubai Expo, which Di Maio so much likes, and that you have refinanced the failed citizenship income. You boast, then, of the lottery of receipts, that state game that should fight tax evasion and, meanwhile, declare war on cash and track our expenses. Again, you launched cashback as a state gift when it's our money. On the other hand, you are the ones who, with the Christmas decree, decided that Jesus had to anticipate his birth by two hours and you replaced the Christmas event with the spectacularization of the advent of the vaccine and the V - day. [[Applause.]] I want to say this because you gave a media clamor to the delivery of vaccines. Brothers of Italy thanks the military engaged in the transport, but to see ministers and supercommissiars emphasize so the thing has been stucco. Everything you do is far from reality. Indeed, as Giorgia Meloni said, it is the maneuver that is light years away from the needs of Italy and the citizens, who would need another whole maneuver, perhaps a different maneuver. For this reason, however, another government, a different government, patriotic, center-right, in love with Italy and the Italians: everything you are not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u76	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u77	Mr President, I believe that a measure such as the budget law needs and requires detailed reasoning. I therefore request permission to submit the full text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u78	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u79	ROJC (PD). Thank you, Mr President. This law is the basis for next year's economic planning and for the next three years. Surely it will be a sign of solidarity, but also of work. The opposition has already voted against the House and will of course confirm it in the Senate. It is legitimate and part of the democratic dialectic. However, I would like to believe that, at least in this circumstance, the meaning of the vote does not end in a simple no. I also hope that he will collect the story of a common work and a good will, which we know has been active in all parts of the hemicycle and which has brought more than some good fruit to the country. As Primo Mazzolari says, in fact: we do not want to take away to anyone his little being well. We want to stop this little one from being okay from causing a lot of people to be sick. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u80	She's enlisted to speak Senator Wolf. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u81	Dear President, among the many measures put in place in this budget maneuver, which is of course particular because it is adopted in a non-normal and ordinary period, there are also those relating to the air transport sector, which was one of the most penalized by lockdown, which effectively imposed the blocking of the mobility of people. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has even estimated, for the two-year period 2020-2021, a loss of approximately €132.4 billion. The budget law, in a prospective perspective, takes into account the need to safeguard this very important sector, with its induced - it must be remembered - remains large. Already in the article approved by the Council of Ministers there was a very important rule, which allows airlines to maintain the requirement of the prevalence of international transport, allowing the non-taxability regime for VAT purposes to be enjoyed by airlines that already complied with this requirement in 2019. In fact, under current legislation, the requirement of the prevalence of international transport should have been maintained in the current year, but, with the blocking of flights and the strong restrictions of traffic, the airlines would have been very hard to comply with this requirement, losing in fact the possibility to benefit from the non-taxability of VAT. This would have produced an important increase in costs, having to pay VAT on invoices still not issued and on those already issued. With the rule introduced in the budgetary maneuver, instead, the carriers that had this requirement in 2019 keep it also in 2020, thus avoiding a strong increase of the costs. The long-awaited airport operators have also suffered considerable losses. The losses incurred by Italian airports in the first half of 2020 are estimated at approximately 1.1 billion in terms of turnover and around 800 million in terms of revenues net of operating costs. Already from the first measures of refreshment of the economic losses the Movimento 5 Stars has constantly proposed the constitution of a fund for the compensation of the damages suffered not only from the airport managers, but also from the companies of handling and maintenance. Here I make a small note: in the budget law what is lacking at the moment are the maintenance companies, which will have to be recovered in the next useful measure. The draft budget that we are about to vote on tomorrow provides for the establishment of a fund at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of 500 million for the compensation of damages suffered by airport managers holding the prescribed valid certificate issued by ENAC and airport service providers and ground handling in the period from 23 February 2020 to 31 January 2021, compared to the same period of the previous year. Specifically they are divided as follows: 450 million are destined to airport managers and 50 to handlers. The amount of the contribution, which can reach up to 100% of the injury suffered, is calculated on the basis of the lower revenues and the higher costs directly attributable to the Covid-19 emergency, net of the reductions in the costs recorded in the period between 23 February 2020 and 31 January 2021 due to access to social shock absorbers, other public support measures aimed at mitigating the economic effects caused by the emergency, any amounts recoverable from insurance, litigation, arbitration or other source for the refreshment of the same year. In the event that the resources are not sufficient, in the sense that the amount of the eligible contributions exceeds the allocation, the contribution shall be repaired in a proportionate manner, however, up to a maximum of 20% of the resources allocated. The operational arrangements for the use of the contribution will have to be laid down by one or more ministerial decrees of the MIT and the MEF, to be issued by 31 January 2021 (so with some speed, which I hope there will be), after consulting the relevant parliamentary committees, to be made within seven days. The opinion of the Commissions represents a very important step, during which we can assess the criteria that are defined for access to the contribution (those that I define as stakes), in order to ensure the correct transparency and finalization of public resources. The purpose of the contribution is to offset, at least in part, the losses incurred and cannot be used as a contribution to rain, loss-making and non-destination. Finally, another important innovation introduced in the Budget Act concerns the possibility of access to the Solidarity Fund for the air transport sector also by companies in the sector that have access to the Integration Fund by way of derogation (CIGD) and not only by those who have used or are currently using the Special Integration Fund, as provided for by the current rules governing the operation of the Fund itself. As is clear, this is an intervention in favour of workers, who, by receiving the CIGD allowance, thanks to the measure introduced in the budget law, can also have the integration by the Air Transport Fund. My personal hope, in the light of experience, is that the increase in the number of instructors will not slow down the overall development of the Fund and its disbursements to workers, who in the previous months have unfortunately been delayed. As I have pointed out several times, the air transport sector has specific features and it should be pointed out that the integration of the Fund is an important component of the family budget, especially for certain categories of the sector, such as seafaring personnel. In short, these are certainly measures aimed at mitigating the negative effects of the crisis, pending an overall reorganization of the entire air transport sector, which I hope will soon see the light, with the conclusion of the examination in the Commission, and then be brought to the scrutiny of the Assembly, of the bill at my first signature, co-signed by all the members of the Commission public works, communications of the Movimento 5 Stars and by a large part of the Group, precisely to intervene, give a future and rebuild. In conclusion, Mr President, I am extremely pleased with the agenda for the special powers for Rome Capital, which comes from an amendment of mine, tabled to the August Decree-Law, then transferred also to the draft budget law. I therefore hope that this will be a new path, in order to recognize to our capital the right functions, which must have, like the capitals of all the countries of the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u82	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 has begun to rise, but it closes with hope of rebirth and renewal, thanks to the arrival of the vaccine and the prospect of the imminent availability of substantial European resources for recovery. It is a prospect that allows us to see important opportunities for growth, some of which begin to emerge already with the budget law in our examination, even if, by force of things, we are voting on a budget that can only be very different from those of the past years, even just because we have to deal, this year, with a decrease in GDP that will presumably be around -9 percent: a new one for our country. Like Italy Viva we are proud to have pushed for measures to be approved, which not only represent an economic benefit for the sectors directly concerned, but which are, first of all, measures of equity, social justice and support for recovery. I am referring, for example, to the introduction of the single allowance for each child: an instrument which, from 1 July next, will represent the lintel of a new policy for families, through the initial allocation of three billion euros, thanks to the commitment of Minister Bonetti. The measure has been studied in order to support parenthood, reconcile it with working life and cope with that demographic emergency, which is likely to be further aggravated by Covid. It is a measure to which we have wanted to add additional support for families, starting from the extension of paternity leave, the renewal of the baby bonus, the forecast of 50 million euros to facilitate the return of workers after childbirth. Particularly significant are also the decontribution measures, introduced to promote the employment of women and young people, especially in the South, in the wake of what we had expected under the Renzi Government, to reduce the cost of labour and promote new recruitment. The establishment of the Fund to support women's enterprise, with a budget of EUR 40 million for the next two years, is also very positive. Among the results achieved by Italy Viva, we are also pleased with what we have called the so-called income of freedom, that is, the allocation of six million euros to be allocated to the most vulnerable women, victims of violence and in conditions of poverty, so that, thanks to a monthly contribution, they can take part in training courses, thus managing to emancipate and acquire their own autonomy that allows them to get out of situations of both emotional and economic dependence. A good signal that comes from this bill of budget, thanks to the commitment of Italy Viva, are also the different measures for the benefit of the projection of the country system in the world, with obvious repercussions at national level. First of all, it should be welcomed that the Government has responded positively to our request to provide the Culture Fund with resources to support the teaching of Italian language and culture abroad. With the forecast of 132 million euros for the next three years is basically restored what was allocated at the time by the Renzi Government, with consequent and tangible advantages for the cultural promotion of the country system abroad. We were then able to re-introduce the IMU exemption of 50% of the amount for a single property owned in Italy by those fellow citizens residing abroad who receive an international pension. This is a good result one year after it was abolished in the budget law. It is a result that responds to the many requests that we have received in recent months from our communities around the world, but also from many municipalities, in the South and in the North. All administrations that have decided in addition to demand the abolition of the tax and that have taken charge, often at their own expense, of the exemption, because they are aware of how much this measure can represent an anchor in order to stem the depopulation and the degradation of so many splendid villages, places that in this way will not fall prey to the architectural abandonment and, in the same way, they will be able to enjoy that economic return produced by the citizens abroad for the benefit of their own lands of origin. We are pleased to have reinforced further interventions aimed at countering the so-called brain drain. In fact, the audience of the beneficiaries of the so-called counter-exodus fund has been expanded, a measure to support the return to highly qualified workers, teachers, researchers and scientists who, even if returned to Italy before 2020 thanks to our work, will be able to take advantage of the incentives that aim to avoid new departures. It is also a satisfaction that, thanks to our intervention, the necessary resources have been allocated for the renewal of the Comites (Italian Committees abroad), an important instrument of basic democracy, whose elections deserve our due attention. In short, Mr President, like Italy Viva, we have committed ourselves to courageous, fair measures that are capable of making an important contribution also in terms of development and growth. We believe that it is necessary because we are faced with an epochal passage, in which it is up to us to choose whether to enter history books such as the Parliament that, like the post-war, managed to make good politics and invest to rebuild a country that is worthy of one of the world's major powers, or if we want to be remembered as those who threw into the nettles the historic opportunity to regenerate the country. That, Mr President, we in Italy Viva choose to be part of the first category and we hope that all the majority forces will do the same with us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u84	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Senator Totaro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u85	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are speaking in this House today a few days from 31 December and, if the maneuver is not approved, we should go to the provisional exercise in a few hours. The approval of the economic maneuver will be due to the great sense of responsibility of the opposition. Very often we are wrongly accused by the majority that we are not aware enough and that we are not doing the interests of our people and Italian citizens; these accusations are being made to us. On the other hand, again this time, we show a great sense of responsibility, without doing extreme opposition activities in this House, as we have seen in the past. We could have brought the country to the provisional exercise and this would have been a damage to Italian citizens who would then have suffered this situation on their own. So, precisely in order to respect the interests of the citizens, we avoided making an extreme opposition to an attitude like yours which, on the other hand, would have deserved it. You, in fact, have expelled this branch of Parliament. In fact, the Senate of the Republic on this occasion was cornered, i.e. it no longer exists. I understand that you are very busy in the internal struggles within the majority of which we read constantly in the newspapers. We see little in this House, perhaps when some political leaders intervene, but we often read about them. Surely there have been cross vetoes: you have arrived at the last moment at the adoption of the bill when we examined it in the House of Deputies. You have not given the Senate time to ask questions, to bring our proposals as senators to improve the draft budget law. You've thought of something else. Probably some important shareholder of your majority, mindful of the fact that he had tried to abolish the Senate of the Republic through a referendum then ended badly for him, thought that so much the Senate did not serve much. In fact, we do not serve much of today, except to reiterate, as we of the Italian Brothers Group are doing now, our position and our arguments to let the Italian people know what we would have thought about budgetary manoeuvre and what we could not do in the appropriate fora, in the Commission and in this House, through our amendments. Dear friends of the government and friends of the center-left and of the majority that governs this country, then you have a great deal to say when you speak - you have said it very often - of the centrality of Parliament, as when you presented this Government to the Assemblies. We see from the facts that this is not the case and we strongly denounce it here today. Yet, perhaps, we, the Brothers of Italy, could have made good proposals and made them thanks to the intervention of our Group colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies. If in this draft budget law, for example, an additional EUR 1 million has been allocated to orphans of victims of feminicide, we owe it to Brothers of Italy's intervention and amendments to the House of Deputies. It is a concrete intervention on a subject that is very often filled with the mouth and with which propaganda is made, but then, concretely, nobody does anything. In addition, citizens who are the victims of crazy bills will have to be compensated if they do not have to pay their bills. This is also an intervention by the Brothers of Italy Group. Again. Moms who have pathologies because of which they cannot breastfeed will have a bonus in order to buy milk powder for their children. These are the proposals of the Brothers of Italy Group to the Chamber of Deputies that have become part of the draft budget law. Many others could have done so, but unfortunately we are in a position to no longer be able to intervene, so we cannot make it a good law for Italian citizens. For this reason we must thank you for continuing to discuss, settle and divide you on how to please this or that one within the majority. Nothing, however, in favour of the citizens, in favour of the Italian people who will also see the increase in taxation by means of this financial manoeuvre. For example, an exponential increase in excise duties on fuels is expected in 2021, 2022 and 2023. What is it but an increase in taxation, because of the fact that transport costs also increase, of course, as well as the cost of goods for the people who will then buy the products? This is an increase in subtle taxes. There is no increase in VAT. You said that this government was born to avoid the increase in VAT, but in fact the draft budget law in our examination contains an increase in taxation, contributions and taxes that will weigh on Italian citizens, obviously without ever touching the big tax evaders or the big multinational web. Trouble touching them. The lowest common denominator of this Executive is to touch first the Italians but not the powerful ones, those that can pose some risk if they are involved. Here, we strongly denounce these measures in a draft budget law that we do not like; of course, the opposite vote of Brothers of Italy is taken for granted. Among the many expenses you will do, you have also included 400,000 euros for the celebration of the anniversary of the birth of the Italian Communist Party; on these things you are always ready and sure to find contributions. Well, I hope that at some time this Government will go home and no other Government will be formed because it would be yet another clown, and this Parliament and Italy of clowns have already seen many of them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. Mr Totaro (FdI). Well, I hope that the voters, the Italians, will be given a mandate to choose the new government. And surely we will do our part in behalf of the Italian people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u88	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we made a specific request earlier. We would like to see whether the Government's response will take place before the end of the general discussion in order to prevent problems being created, since times are already very tight on the debate. The Government will explain the problem of the possible error contained in the maneuver, but we would like at least a minimum discussion on this issue because we find it correct and necessary to discuss it. It is therefore necessary that the Government intervenes on an incidental basis; it cannot do so in response because otherwise we would not be in a position to reply. This is the hope; tell us also a timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u89	Senator Romeo, I have a guarantee that the government will respond in response, so you will have your answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u90	If that is the attitude, it will mean that we will take a subsequent attitude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u91	Senator Romeo, it's not an attitude, it's a procedure. The Assembly is facing the general discussion on the draft budget law; the Government will take action in response. [[Comments of Senator Romeo]] Can I finish, too, Senator Romeo? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). The government can intervene at any time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Romeo, you asked me if the government was going to answer your question; I tell you that the government will answer your question in response. We are now in general discussion and, as President, I intend to continue the work at this time as it should be.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u92	Mr President, I said that it would be more appropriate for the Government to intervene, not in response - since this prevents minorities from possibly discussing the subject - but in an incidental way earlier. If so, I repeat, there is no problem; the important thing is that it discusses the aspect. If, however, the forcing is: we replicate and pretend nothing, okay, we will draw our due consequences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u93	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I believe that the question raised by the right-wing groups and that, even after the speech that Senator Pichetto Fratin made on behalf of our Group, President Romeo has now reiterated, is the basic question: you have silenced the Senate, which will only make a notary record of what happened in the House. There is no discussion of merit, the immediate confidence has been announced, there are no coverages; there should be, therefore, the mechanism of budgetary deviation with the absolute majority, which you would hardly have, and therefore there is total prevarication. In the few minutes I have in this debate I would like to draw attention to a specific issue, that of Rome, one of the great absentees of this draft budget law. Our Group - I first - had tabled some amendments concerning the fundamental infrastructure for Capital, which has been very tested for difficult years, also with other administrations, but now devastated by the last Administration Rays, without prospects, strategies, and also listening in the Government, within which its party plays an important role, although the 5 Stars have done nothing for Rome in the budget laws that they have managed in recent years according to the Government anyway. Well, I had tabled two amendments that trust will "tranculate": one concerning the urban plan of sustainable mobility in Rome Capital, with particular reference to line D of the Rome metro, which included significant appropriations; another for the famous completion of line C of the Rome metro. These amendments will not be discussed, as they have not been discussed in the House, where an agenda was adopted in extremis which we supported with the signatures of our colleagues from Forza Italia and which was also reported in the local press. We know, however, that the agendas are an instrument which in this part of Parliament is foreclosed to us in the event of trust, whereas in the House they can nevertheless exercise vanity with such acts of direction. We have signed the agenda which, however, would commit the Government to appropriations for Rome. Not even the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of Rome Capital of Italy were organized by the Government or the municipal administration in a decent way. Capital belongs to all, to the history of the nation: it is not a problem of bell towering. There is absolute ignorance of these requirements. In 2009 we passed a law, which we ask to go even further, to give the capital of Italy the powers that other capitals in the Western world and not only have, but also need appropriations. You said no. Now the mayor of Rome Raggi is saying that he will open a table after the approval of the agenda at the House. However, the agenda, which we supported, signed and voted on, is of little use: you had to adopt rules for the capital of Italy in the budget law. [[Applause]] It is useless that the mayor Raggi, who has never even listened to the parliamentarians in his total inability and denial of the democracy of the territory, today says to open a table for the Capital of Italy. Make the subways. The Raggi announced a second cable car, when the first one was not seen even a bolt in the city of Rome [[Applause]] This is the ridiculous condition in which your misgovernment has plunged capital. There have been investigations: I complain about investigations not carried out in Rome in the past, when there were Pignatone, Rossi, Orano and others. I must say to Deputy Minister Misiani that the answer to these events must be given to Parliament, and not to the groups that support it. [[Applause]] ! Answer us! I'll wait if Deputy Minister Misiani wants to talk. Do you have anything to say to the Senate, Senator Misiani, or just your friends? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do your speech, Senator Gasparri. I'm doing my surgery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you're talking to the government. You can finish your speech. You still have 45 seconds. Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). No, I get the time I've been denied. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's 15 more seconds. Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Great. The Rays have abandoned Rome. You triggers didn't do anything for Rome. The draft budget law under discussion does not grant anything to the Capital and has taken all Italians for the backdrops. The government acts without cover and, instead of responding to the Senate, responds to friends. You're a minority in the country. You've sunk this country. You won't go on long. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u95	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate on the health-related measures that have strengthened the responses to the dramatic emergency we are facing in this 2021 budget maneuver, but at the same time have led us to rethink the whole system, to invest more resources by acting on aspects of great fragility. Health protection is a constitutionally guaranteed right, the most important, and the new coronavirus has brought back to the centre of political debate the quality of our country's health system and the fundamental principles of universality, equality and equity. It is therefore not just a question of tackling the current crisis, but also of starting a path that will enable us to strengthen and consolidate the health of the future, which in fact represents a sector of public life that will become increasingly decisive. Of course, we could - as we have said so many times - do more and we will have to do so, but I believe that the maneuver contains important steps to move towards that commitment that we have all undertaken to use many of the resources that will come from the European Union to strengthen public health. Italy has allocated economic resources to health care this year of 6.5%, if we consider the expenditure financed only with public funds and, therefore, in line with the OECD average of 6.6%, even if signs of difficulties are still emerging. We still need to improve and invest taking into account the three factors identified by the European Commission and the OECD: effectiveness, accessibility and resilience. I believe - for example - that, precisely with a view to improving the system, the issue of the reform of Title V of the Constitution must also be addressed in a non-ideological way, trying to resolve some of the problems that have emerged clearly at this stage of emergency. In the short time available, I can only focus on some of the main measures of the maneuver, such as the increase of a further billion of the health fund; personnel-specific measures; recruitment resources; a further increase in the number of training contracts for specialist doctors; the 400 million for the purchase of vaccines and specific medicines for the care of Covid-19 patients; the additional 70 million for rapid antigenic swabs and, of course, the two billion more for healthcare. I would also like to add a few questions of the maneuver which I consider to be important and of particular concern to me. These are issues scattered in the various paragraphs, but related to three very important areas of address. Firstly, there is the enhancement of interventions on the most fragile categories, and I am talking about the fund for the care of children with cancer disease, the increase of the fund for the care of people with autistic spectrum disorders, the establishment of a fund for Alzheimer's disease and dementias to ensure early diagnosis and timely take-up. There are also important investments in diseases affecting women, ranging from genomic tests for early breast cancer to support endometriosis research. Secondly, I think it is important that inter-branch integration between health professions is enhanced. All right, then, the enhancement of all employees in the health professions. Finally, there is innovation, aware that the medicine of the future will play a decisive role. I am thinking - for example - of telemedicine, which allows remote referencing, consultation between specialists and remote home care. The contribution of different competences and the specific role in the activities aimed at the protection of the sick and the promotion of health must therefore be recognised, strengthened and expanded. Mr President, the budget law is a positive signal which goes in the desired direction of devoting more resources to health as an absolute priority in order to start, thanks to the funds of the European Union, the largest investment plan that our country needs so much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u97	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the branch of Parliament where we are and where we sit as representatives of the Italian people is called not to discuss the most important law of this year, but only to ratify the decisions already taken elsewhere by the Government and the majority. We vote on a written budget law with thirty-five days late, approved in the run between Christmas and New Year, taking advantage of the fact that Italians - luckily - have much more to think about than the goods of the armchairs and electoral marches made inside the government group. [[Applause]] The budget law is worth 40 billion. Infrastructure only needs crumbs, a few million euros. Mr President, I would also like to address the Minister who represents the Commission here. I come from a land which, unfortunately, is considered by the current Government to be at the border, the southern part of Piedmont, the province of Cuneo, which has been greatly penalized at an infrastructural level, where shipyards, such as the one of Asti-Cuneo, have been blocked for more than eight years now, since 2012. Despite the millions of talks by Minister De Micheli, everything is still to date. A signature is missing because the construction site of Cuneo-Asti or Asti-Cuneo definitely leaves, as is best believed. To finish the work of the A33 lacks the signature of the minister of the economy and the finances Gualtieri, because the additional acts to the agreements with the concessionaires have all been signed also by the Minister of the infrastructures. I therefore officially request from this Senate Chamber that the Piedmontese and the Cuneans be respected and that the Minister sign the document immediately: the shipyards must start and all operations must be put into effect immediately for the completion of the work. I would add that on October 2nd and 3rd there was a very serious flood, which hit not only the Province of Cuneo, but the whole of Piedmont, with estimated damage of one billion euros. For that flood we had 15 million euros from the government throughout the territory. There is, however, a huge problem, because the cross-border link with France, the Tenda tunnel (state road 20), is interrupted: there is a lack of resources for completion and there is no appointment of a commissioner to reveal bureaucratic practice. You have to start the yards to complete the work and to reunite with France and Liguria from the South of Piedmont: it is fundamental. I would also like to recall, because all too often it is forgotten by the Government, that Piedmont is an active contributor at the level of fiscal surplus for more than 8 billion euros (data of 2018) compared to what it receives in terms of services and investments: let's never forget. You had to lay the foundations for the recovery of our economy, but you continued with the policy of bonuses, with the support of friends of friends, who are often the enemies of our country, are the enemies of Italy. A measure that would have helped our businesses and families - as we have said several times - would have been the reduction of VAT on consumption. [[Applause]] , as proposed by the League's economic department, with Mr Bagnai at the head: with less spending on families and consumers there would have been more trade, but none of this. You admitted that the income of citizenship did not work and it is not good: it did not allow to hire anyone, except perhaps the navigators, who still have to be trained. Today it has been refinanced for EUR 4 billion. The relationship between welfare and support for those who want to work is 8 to 1: 500 million euros for active labour policies. It's a shame for all Italians. Look: here is not the ant, but the cicada, which spends everything it has and wastes the resources it has, and you do it simply to stay attached to the chair. You have to go home, and not just for New Year's Eve: we ask you with all the respect we have for the millions of Italians who no longer want to have anything to do with you. First the Italians, always. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u99	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss and discuss the budget law together, some of whom are members of the majority and others of the opposition. I speak as a member of the Mixed Group, with the request on the part of someone on what perspective to put forward, i.e. whether by majority or opposition, even if the fact of putting oneself in the majority or in opposition is not a personal choice, also deduced from the progress of the work in a reality such as that of a Parliamentary Chamber. We assume that we are in a perfect bicameralism, but in fact we have seen in recent months and even now in the context of the budget law how we are proceeding. I like to imagine the budget law as a sort of pseudo-recovery plan. Plan: the majority and, in part, the minority, plan and plan what will be the next three years 2021-2023. Forgive me, but I've only seen random surgeries. On the family we made only proclamations; on the school idem. We are talking about the allocation of a fund on the single cheque; certainly a commendable maneuver also with regard to the attention to VAT consignments and therefore to those who are not employed. Let us, however - as already noted in other interventions - put on the discourse of the allocation of the funds a certainly ridiculous share with respect to the necessity. We are also talking about an intervention that takes into account the ISEE evaluation and therefore a calculation that, in fact, does not evaluate the true wealth of a family. So what should family interventions be? What are our prospects? Do we have a project for the future? A lot of terms such as vision, design and resilience are used. But what is our vision? Martin Luther King would say "I have a dream." What's our dream? We went on this year with the famous bonuses; in fact, I have to say that it has been going on in this way for a few years. We need a shared design, as required by Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution. When we talk about attention to the family, do we take into account this subject, this first educational agency and, therefore, the economic crisis to which it is subjected? We often talk about economic crisis and these days we talk about recovery plan and recovery fund. Compared to a dramatic situation with a public debt that in the ratio to GDP reaches 158 percent, how do we plan to intervene? With debts. However, in order to be able to be supported, the latter need a rehabilitation project. And what is our recovery plan? What is the ban of the skein if not the demographic one? And when I talk about demographic problems, I am referring not only to the problem of birth, but also to the emigration of the generation of young people from 19 to thirty-nine years old, who are precisely those who stimulate the economy, buying cars and houses, putting on a family, procreating. We have said a thousand times that each child in the annual national GDP has a positive impact of 35,000 euros per year. We have lost over five billion in eleven years. What can I tell you? There are many interventions which I have also personally proposed to the budget law and which have been absolutely unheard of. So, back to my introductory speech, it is clear that we are told to stand up to the opposition as certain proposed projects and interventions are not even evaluated. It is assumed that the question of trust is also raised on this budget law. However, I wonder how confidence is gained if confidence is not given. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u101	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it was with great surprise that at 1.30 p.m. the House learned that there were errors in the budget law and asked the government to clarify them. Personally I had already found at least two serious ones, which I tried to denounce, where it was possible to do so, even by writing a letter to the President of the Council and the Minister of Health and trying to ask the Deputy Minister. The serious mistake that I want to bring to the consciousness of all of you is the cancellation from the budget law of an appropriation of five million euros (cipher exactly to that foreseen in the law 19 August 2016, n. 167) to finance the extended neonatal screening. It is a test that is done throughout Italy - because it is included in the essential levels of care - to all children at birth, which allows to diagnose in a very early way the possible affection from rare disease. It is a matter of democracy and justice and reflects a constitutional principle (the right to care, if not the right to health). It is something that our President of today also cares about and has allowed, in the last three or four years, to meet the needs of so many different children. Just in the budget law of last year we have foreseen the extension of the extended neonatal screening (SNE) to children suffering from neuromuscular diseases, such as SMA, or lysosomal accumulation. It is a matter of justice, which we have cancelled for EUR 5 million. We have taken away from children - and, among them, those in the most fragile and most exposed to the situation of handicap and disability - that visibility which - let me stress - the President-in-Office of the Council wanted to keep for himself as a proxy, but which I do not think has been taken into account at all on this occasion. Moreover, on the other hand, we have generously allowed large tobacco companies to pay for the ludicrous increase in tax burden by 5%. We have taken away from the poor to give to the rich; we have taken away from the children because we have left them completely without the only chance they have of having a normal life, to let some others get rich because they represent lobbying power. This is structurally already a serious mistake in this budgetary manoeuvre. It is a morally serious mistake that will have serious consequences, which you will have to pay, on the families of those children throughout their lives. The test not carried out will in fact be a very serious mortgage on their lives. In addition, you can do beautiful things with big companies (such as Philip Morris and others) because you have graciously let them dispose. This measure is so unfair structurally that, only for this reason, the budget maneuver deserves to be profoundly amended, and I do not know when: it will not be the decree thousand extensions, it will perhaps be the decree ristori 5 or that decree you announced as correction of this law so morally unfair. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u102	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u103	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, this draft budget law certainly introduces important elements of support for our economy. It is an important signal in the days when the vaccine has finally arrived and because in the next few days we will work mainly for the recovery and rebirth of our country. We know how difficult the last few months have been, during which all sectors - and families in the first place - have been hard hit by the pandemic, but we have to look ahead. In addition to the measures such as the various reform decrees and what will come after and to the budget law today, however, we are beginning to outline concrete aid, to which each parliamentary group, beginning with the majority and my Group Italy Viva, has certainly tried to contribute in the most concrete way possible. They are certainly all important incentives and resources that, however, certainly do not lead to change the hard-earned face of this country, of Europe and not only. We certainly need, instead, to redesign a vision, a strategy for 2021, especially with regard to the fundamental resources that will come from Europe, from which we cannot in any way fail. On this, too, the Italia Viva Group tried, even yesterday, with Matteo Renzi, to give contributions in our opinion essential, to make proposals that go precisely in the direction of having a strategic vision, because we are talking about really large investments for the next ten years, from now to 2030, of our country. At the moment, however, I would like to focus on a number of issues which concern my Commission. I am thinking of the themes of culture, school and sport in the first place. As far as school is concerned, I make two brief remarks. Certainly there is an important intervention on the increase of staff and, in particular, of teaching staff and teachers to be employed in the school of childhood, of technical assistants in the schools of the first cycle and of school collaborators. There are other provisions that go to increase the resources for the extension of training provision, for digital innovation, for laboratory teaching and for the so-called fund 0-6, with interventions that also concern school inclusion and school building. In particular, there is an intervention that we consider fundamental, which brings an increase of 70 million euros for 2021 for peer schools that will receive pupils with disabilities; the result of an amendment strongly wanted by the Group of Italy Viva in the House. Also in sport there are signs of a world that has been abandoned and always considered as a B-series, but that instead - and I want to reiterate this today from this House - is a strategic sector in the recovery and rebirth of our country for employment, for the voluntary system, in particular with the fund of 50 million to strengthen the basic sport activity. Finally, there is also the recognition of a partial exemption from social security contributions relating to sports employment. It is still very little, but it is a sign that goes in the right direction. It is up to us now, in the next measures, to really think of having a strategy that can help and change the face of a country that has been hit hard, economically and not only, and that must fight the educational poverty that has affected children and adolescents in a particular way, but also the cultural poverty of a country that has an extraordinarily rich heritage that has no equals in the world. The Italia Viva Group will of course vote in favour of the budget law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u104	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u105	Mr President, the budget law we are debating is more than a month behind schedule. We are only two days away from the abyss of the provisional budget and all this because of a quarrelsome majority, who think of the fillings and armchairs. It is clear that it is a simple and biegious division of power. We would have liked to discuss this measure. We would have wanted to bring our contribution, which never failed for the good of the nation and also of the Italians. But we have been prevented, particularly here in the Senate, where we will be forced to do a very rapid examination, in less than forty-eight hours. And to say that the exceptional nature of the moment that we are unfortunately experiencing, for the pandemic, which is scourged not only our economy and health, should have led us to open wide consultation on this budgetary session. But tomorrow you will put yet another vote of confidence in a budget law that lacks a vision and a national identity able to speak to the Italians and above all to give them a perspective. It was not enough for the 140 billion of budgetary imbalances, which were in some way also squandered on thousands of jobs. Now, even the 40 billion will be added to the many opportunities for development and above all to relaunch that you will unfortunately lose to our country. All this is done with pride: yours clearly. Not only did you not want to listen to oppositions, which on more than one occasion have demonstrated availability and above all advanced ideas and proposals, such as our colleagues of Brothers of Italy in the Chamber of Deputies, but not even the categories you have abandoned to themselves. Even today there are groups of professional groups, small entrepreneurs, restaurateurs and families who do not know what the future is waiting for them. You should have talked to the companies. You should have spoken to the workers, to those who have fallen into disgrace and poverty, offering solutions and opportunities to rise, and certainly not the alms of refreshment. You should have responded to the many small and large enterprises that have suffered from the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. Not only the four decrees-restoration laws did not change the situation, but, especially in this maneuver, they did not give any kind of answers. There was a need to ensure liquidity and resources. You should have dealt with the big issue of fixed costs, which unfortunately continues to remain the great issue that has not been met. We talk about it every day and, instead, here too, zero opportunities. I ask myself and ask you: what is the point of giving refreshment, if you then force the tax arrears to be paid for months and months? This is a question that we cannot answer. With what revenue, which is not there, do you think that those costs can be covered? These are the questions you have not answered in this maneuver either. Talk about reopening schools, but you didn't do anything to improve local public transport. Local public transport is certainly an essential, strategic element in order to restart the school sector. We have dealt with this with an amendment of ours in the decree-laws, through which we have allocated 100 million. This will help public transport through agreements with NCCs, taxis and bus companies that are stopped. This will certainly help. What about the tourist and receptive sector, which is one of many who complains about the inadequacy of your work? For the tourism sector, among the most important resources in our country, nothing has been done. Above all, nothing has been done for travel agencies. It wasn't any kind of support. The same question could also be asked for the event sector. It is a world that has been stationary for almost a year, with thousands of professionals who perceive absolutely nothing. Not to mention the restaurant, like bars and restaurants. Here you have done even better: first you have told him to invest resources in sanitation facilities, reducing seating, and then you have actually closed them or reduced them dramatically. And we could move on with that, too. [[Recalls of the President]] Two more minutes, Mr President; he then retrieves them from his colleague. Our opinion is certainly negative, although thanks to our commitment we have managed to achieve small results, such as exemption from the minimum contribution INPS for artisans and traders; a first step towards social shock absorbers also for the autonomous and resources for autism. There was also an overall commitment on the powers of Rome Capital. It is clear, however, that we cannot be satisfied, just as the Italians are not. But do not be deceived: sooner or later - hopefully sooner - the people will judge you and will strongly repeat the same no that we announce today in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u106	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, what we are dealing with here today is an important budget law (40 billion), which we approve at the end of a year which is certainly complex and tormented. It is a first piece of a strategy that concerns next year and the years to come, to which will contribute the next decree restori, that is on the horizon, but above all the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, that we will face in the first months of the new year. Through this Plan we will have to strategically define the horizons and objectives towards which to guide the path of this country. This awareness is general and is certainly very strong with regard to the agricultural sector; a sector that, in this year certainly very complex, has worked anyway, providing Italian citizens - and not only - with products of the highest quality, with great environmental sustainability and great health content. During the year, efforts were made to accompany this sector through the various decree-laws that have been enacted (cura Italia, rilativa, ristori, liquidity and so on). Very important measures have been taken, such as the one that has allowed us to bring the CAP advance from 50% to 70%; I believe that this has been an extraordinary turning point for the agricultural world in terms of the provision of liquidity to businesses. Then there is the whole theme of bonuses, of the lost fund, of the guarantee fund through ISMEA and of the possibility of access by agriculture also to the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, the experimentation or re-respect of the agricultural bill, which was an absolutely positive surprise. As with the other sectors, many deadlines have been postponed, starting with the IMU instalments and so on. Then a number of specific measures were taken to support the most affected sectors, from preventive storage to revolving pledges. Two absolutely strategic measures were adopted in the current year. The first one has allowed us to deal with the Asian bug, both in terms of regulation and in terms of active struggle, with intervention and recovery plans for the damage suffered by companies due to this parasite. The second, which is not yet law, but will be law in the coming weeks, is the rule that delegates the Government to issue legislative decrees for the implementation of the contrast to unfair commercial practices. The Senate approved the provision at first reading and the House then approved it without modifications; it is therefore a matter of weeks for the law to come into force. In this context, the budget law is part of our examination, which includes a series of general measures, from the IRPEF exemption for dominical income and agricultural income to 50% for companies to the exemption from the payment of INPS contributions for two years for new companies that are starting. There are also a number of very specific measures, ranging from VAT to 10% on take-out products, which affects a large number of farms, support funds for the supply chains of agriculture, fisheries, aquaculture, support for the most affected sectors, such as beer, hemp, nuts and support for the pig sector. There are measures that have affected other sectors, such as the EUR 70 million increase in the resources of the National Solidarity Fund and measures in favour of the fisheries sector. [[Call the president back.]] In conclusion, there are also some measures, which seem to be minute, such as the abolition of the fixed registration tax for the purchase of land with a value of less than 5,000 euros, or the strengthening of the path of valorization of the food and wine traditions of quality Italian restaurants in the world, which represents an extraordinary vehicle for the image of quality of the territory. I therefore believe that it is a set of absolutely very important measures, which will require, especially if we look at the strategic interventions of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) or the next decree to restore, a great attention to agriculture, which this year has been able to work with the aim of developing quality and health in its products and that will put at the center of future strategies of commitment precisely the themes of green transition, quality and attention to health, which are and will be at the center of betting for the future of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u108	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, for the first time in the history of the Republic an economic maneuver arrives here in the Senate, at second reading, only three days after the end of the year and only thanks to the responsibility of the opposition forces will the provisional exercise be avoided. Unfortunately, we are no longer surprised by the government's work, which is too busy solving the many disagreements within it. The government presented the budget maneuver with more than a month's delay, leaving little room for examination in the Chamber of Deputies and practically no one in the Senate. This is truly unacceptable for the democracy of our country. [[Applause]] We have a few hours to discuss the main act of economic policy, at the most difficult time for our nation since the post-war period. This budget law had to lay the foundations for recovery from an unprecedented economic and health crisis. It had to be an opportunity to lead our country towards a future of hope and growth goals. A measure of EUR 40 billion without a clear overall picture: that is what the Parliamentary Budget Office has called it and we in the League can only share it. However, during the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, we tried to improve it, with a sense of responsibility towards the country and the many categories, which are currently suffering. We have always done so and demonstrated this in recent months, by giving our vote to the budgetary deviations, for a total amount of net debt that exceeds EUR 100 billion. There are so many resources, but without a vision of the whole, as you are demonstrating at this moment: many ideas and well confused. There is therefore no planning necessary for a solid restart, with the possibility to use the resources also deriving from the recovery fund to remedy the damaging policies of the past years and to seize the opportunity to redesign the future, taking into account changes in society, the composition of households, economic needs, urban regeneration and the provision of services. Changing, renewing and rebuilding: these had to be the guidelines, but maybe it's too much for this government. Vision and perspective are completely unknown words. Outside these buildings there is the real world, waiting for concrete answers, especially after the various lockdowns. You have stopped Italy in various ways, coloring our calendar and the nation, creating confusion, placing citizens, when they wake up in the morning, in the condition of having to consult websites or newspapers to know what they can or cannot do and leaving them in uncertainty. Uncertainty: this is the word with which citizens must live waiting for the various DPCMs, who arrive in the evening with press conferences and come into force in the morning. In this way, those who have to organize and plan work do not know how to make purchases, establish work shifts or put employees in cash. An example of this is the management of the issue of winter tourism: all the Alpine regions have submitted a protocol to restart safely, but only in these days, then after a month, the CTS has examined it. It is clear that the health issue is a priority, but it is also clear that certain answers are needed, with the indication of date and manner. Above all, I want to stress that the importance of the winter season has been cleared by many with the phrase: It's just a ski trip. Instead, there is an entire section that lives on this. It is well known that mountain-related companies generate 85% of their annual turnover in the period between December and March. The current closure is leading to loss of income in order to keep businesses active until the 2021 winter season. This loss will not be recoverable in any way except in the face of adequate measures of relief and compensation. Therefore, the repercussions on businesses, workers and families will be very serious. In our mountains, the Alps and the Apennines, there is an economic sector with 400,000 employees, which is worth a turnover between 10 and 12 billion. Those who have administered a public body know that less revenue for public funds resulting from these choices means less services to citizens. So even those who take care of others will have repercussions, especially the families most in difficulty. In addition to mountain tourism, it is all tourism in general that is in serious difficulty. According to ENIT, there have been 57 million less tourists, with a loss of 71 billion euros; 5.8% of a sector weighing 13% of national GDP is lost. The world of catering is losing nearly 41 billion in 2020: a situation that has closed 14.4% of bars and restaurants, with their consequences on the supply chain. The measures put in place by the Government provide for only 505 million in the budget law: they are absolutely insufficient. It is a maneuver made of microbonus without an overall vision. An example is the water bonus, with a budget of 20 million, with 1,000 euros per beneficiary to change taps and sanitary. The dispersion of water is one of the parameters for Italy that makes us worse at European level: the dispersion on the water supply is 47.9%, so perhaps it was appropriate to invest resources on the water supply, to solve the problems of aqueducts in homes. A pasta drainer with a lid on it: this is the action you have done. [[Applause]] Then there are the TV bonuses and the cellular bonuses, and they refinance the welfare measures: in emergency they may be an instrument, but it is regrettable that for this majority they represent structural measures. Too bad not to put in place measures that encourage investment and work: I am referring to decontribution and simplification, especially in a country where Article 1 of the Constitution states: Italy is a democratic Republic based on labour. In addition, in these days I call on the Government to pay attention to the new European default regulation, to implement emergency planning for corporate tax arrears and to postpone the entry into force of the corporate crisis code and insolvency by at least two years. Otherwise, from 1 January, to classify a company in default, it will be enough to withdraw a few euros, more than 1% of the total exposure to the bank: in full pandemic and with the closures imposed, this would be a further mockery and a further damage to the companies. In conclusion, the bonus on glasses is fine, but for the government I would recommend buying a binoculars. [[Applause]] In fact, if we do not have a long-term vision, the future for our children risks being really uncertain and difficult. The responsibility will be yours that you have had the opportunity to invest more than a hundred billion in a single year and you have wasted this great opportunity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u110	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are dealing with the draft budget law for 2021 at the end of a very difficult year for Italy and for the whole world. The outbreak of the pandemic caused an economic crisis with few precedents in history and to avoid the effects on the living flesh of Italians, workers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized enterprises, we at Movimento 5 Stars immediately got to work. And so in recent months, together with the other political forces, we have approved measures, measures, aid, financing, relief and disbursements amounting to EUR 100 billion to give immediate answers to all those who were and are still in difficult situations. It was a huge effort that we are proud of. We have tried to better interpret the demands of the citizens, who ask us all to make an absolute commitment to solving their problems. The citizens certainly do not want to hear about crises or checks. Today, as I said, we deal with the draft budget law for the year 2021 and in the first months of next year we will continue to work in the wake of what has been done so far and we will define all aspects of the recovery plan, Next generation EU, which will allow us to invest in our country the 209 billion euros allocated to Italy, a particularly large amount, as it is easy to see, of which 81 billion to be lost, let us never forget, obtained thanks to the action of the President of the Count Council, the Movimento 5 Stars and this majority. [[Applause]] Funds that will allow us to revive our country, overcome deficiencies and atavistic evils and resume to produce in a sustainable way, to create wealth and well-being and to reduce social injustices. The draft budget that now deals with us provides for interventions of about 40 billion which, as mentioned above, are added to the 100 approved in recent months. Our action has been directed essentially along four guidelines that we consider fundamental, namely immediate interventions to address the emergency, targeted measures and investments to build Italy of the future, at the forefront in the strategic sectors of the environment, health, school and public services, and then a tax package that addresses workers and Italian families and norms that guarantee the social protection of the weakest sections of the population. These guidelines have become a few measures that I am going to list quickly: the extension to 31 March 2021 of the blockage of redundancies and a further twelve weeks of Covid Cassa Integrazione; confirmation until June 2021 of the moratorium on loans, loans, leasing and liquidity guaranteed by the central fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and SACE: additional 4 billion for health; 24 billion in just over two years to relaunch private business investments, with particular regard to machinery, intangible assets and the innovative training of workers. In addition, there is a 100% reduction for those who hire unemployed women and those who hire under 35, confirmation of a long period of the 30% reduction in social security contributions for companies in the South who take, and again, confirmation and stabilisation of the reduction of taxes up to 100 euros for employees who have annual incomes between 8,000 and 40,000 euros. This is a measure involving 16 million Italians. I still remember the single cheque, from July 2021, and this is a very important measure, which will be paid for each child from birth until the twenty-one years of age. In addition, VAT benefit for self-employed persons, professionals and VAT consignments, for the period from 2021 to 2023; the allowance will amount to between EUR 250 and EUR 800 per month for six months and will be paid directly by the INPS. One billion to kick off the so-called white year on the social security contributions of self-employed and professionals. These last two measures, which I have just listed, are very important because we have introduced a new social shock absorber, recognizing the autonomous rights and safeguards that so far only employees had. Never before in Italy had four million VAT matches been guaranteed concrete aid in the event of a drop in income and I never want to emphasize it ever - and I stress never - had taken action to support them by guaranteeing the exemption from the payment of social security contributions. Continuing on the list, the recruitment of 3,000 doctors and 12,000 nurses and health care workers in view of the great anti-Covid vaccination plan; 4 billion euros from 2021 to 2029 for the fund for the income of citizenship, which in these dramatic months has avoided the social collapse for 3,5 million Italian citizens, including 700,000 minors, and which, as we know, is a measure of justice and social inclusion - whatever the detractors say - that the Movimento 5 Stars has strongly wanted and that the facts, not the chatter, have proved to have been decisive in overcoming this economic crisis for more than 3,5 million of our compatriots. [[Applause]] I'm going to conclude. Extension to 2022 of the superbonus to 110%: a measure that the Movimento 5 Stars considers strategic for our economy, for the relaunch of a sector that is very important for our country, that has been suffering for years, without our current detractors, then the Government, moving only one finger to help this vital sector for the country. This is a very important measure for the safety of our homes and to respect the parameters of less environmental impact, less pollution and protection of the environment and the Planet. In this draft budget law we would have liked to have added three more measures - and I shall finish with that - which we have proposed and which we will propose very strongly until we achieve the result... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I'll ask you for another minute, Mr. President. I am referring to the further extension of the superbonus by 110% at least until 31 December 2023 - for the reasons already outlined and which I do not repeat - and to the regulation of the use of industrial hemp, a sector that already employs thousands of citizens and businesses today. I repeat, industrial hemp, that is the use of the plant to produce fabrics, paper, building materials, biodegradable plastic for the cosmetics industry and for the food industry. [[Applause]] Industrial hemp has absolutely nothing to do with drugs or drugs, and those who say otherwise are ignorant or want to exploit the ignorance of some for ideological and propaganda purposes. [[Applause]] Finally, the c-breaking of the debitory folders, at least until December 31, 2019, which I personally proposed in the form of an amendment to the Italian care and measures... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I'm done, ma'am. It is a measure that will breathe life into the so-called blameless morosities that are certainly not evaders. In conclusion, 2020 will be remembered for the outbreak of the pandemic, but also for the start of vaccination; it will be remembered for a difficult economic crisis, but also for the imposing and unprecedented measures as regards resources allocated in no time to overcome the crisis. We trust that we will soon be able to leave behind this difficult year, this dramatic moment, in the conviction that, also thanks to the action of the Movimento 5 Stars, Italy, the new Italy, will be a more dynamic, more sustainable, fairer and fairer country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u112	President. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u113	Mr President, Italian citizens, the new Italy that was mentioned earlier is an Italy without Parliament, where Parliament no longer exists, has been deleted by a decree, by an act of trust. At 1.30 p.m. today, the process of the state budget in the Senate Chamber began, and this process will have to be completed at 1 p.m. tomorrow. This event, never happened in the history of the Italian Republic and in the history of Western democracies, takes place in this House because of the ineptitude and boldness of this government supported, claimed and led by the 5 Stars. Deleted representative democracy, cancelled Parliament's role [[Applause]] All this happens with a state budget of 40 billion euros, twice as much as usual, at the end of nine months when the Government and the majority have used 108 billion of new debt, that is, how much no one has been able to do in this country in the previous decades; they are figures that correspond to about six budget laws in a single year. In addition, you conclude this year with a budget law that you have transformed into a locomotive, a train to which to hook up so many wagons: the budget law contains 50 extensions, as if it were the milleproroghe (but the one under consideration is the draft budget law, not the milleproroghe), 10 derogations and 20 microbonus. In these numbers there is the ineptitude of a Government that realizes measures to rain, scatters the resources, folds the country under mountains of debts without allowing the economic recovery: 50 extensions, 10 derogations, 20 bonuses, to this you have reduced the main law of the State, which should give direction, perspective and strategy to all the economic activity of the Country. Well, in all this there is a bonus that you hide and that stands on everything. I am especially addressing the citizens who voted for the 5 stars: this is a bonus that stands on everything to cover everything and that you hide with the rest of the measure. I am referring to the bonus that must be used by the Italian Democratic Party to pay with the money of the State a bank and buy two; the bonus that serves the merger between Unicredit and Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the so-called norm on deferred active taxes, deferred tax asset (DTA), which does not have a precise budget allocation. It is an accordion rule that could be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 billion, depending on how then the mergers will take place this year, and that should serve to allow the Democratic Party, covering the scandals of the past that lie behind the financial failure of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, to finally acquire, according to the ambitions of the firm of Bersani, Fassino and heirs, not one, but two banks in one, that is Monte dei Paschi di Siena and Unicredit, for a merger that, already according to today's news, will cost a little more. In fact, today's newspapers say that the dowry will have to increase, that it will not be enough for the DTA and that the last dowry from 3.6 billion will increase to 6 billion, then there is the shortage of 10.2 billion. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about something that we will report every step of the way in the coming weeks and months. We are talking about the greatest shortage of history of the Italian Republic; about a rescue of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which has already cost 5.7 billion when nationalization was made, and that then it has cost another measure always regarding deferred taxes that today you propose with the norm on the DTAs. Well, in 2017 already happened, against a maxi loss of more than 11 billion euros, to enter in the budgets 3 billion euros of tax credit in the calculation of the capital. This maneuver was already carried out by Padoan himself in 2017. It happened that the Minister of Economy at the time realized that nationalization to cover certain scandals. Someone for this fell out of a window. Recently, the House passed a Commission of Inquiry. Well, to cover that scandal the then Minister of Economy nationalized Monte Paschi di Siena with a mountain of billions (5.7 before, 3 billion after), 8 billion deteriorated credits were purchased from AMCO and now there are at least 3 billion more DTA, at least another two and a half billion recapitalisation, another 10.2 billion manleva to be guaranteed. How much is the bag you're preparing for the Italians? How many tens of billions is the rescue operation of the Democratic Party bank, which must be merged with Unicredit and entrusted to Padoan? I have tabled a question to understand why - it will be published tomorrow - Minister Gualtieri has whitewashed a European directive rule, deleting it from the law to allow Padoan to overcome fictitiously and arbitrarily with scam the rule on conflict of interest and become today councilor and tomorrow president of Unicredit and Monte Paschi di Siena. You have deceived Europe; you have changed and distorted the legislation; you have blanched the conflict of interest to realize the big bag on Italian finance and banks. We cannot allow this to happen and we will not allow it to happen. The budget maneuver only serves to hide that operation. I am surprised that the Movimento 5 Stars remains silent and allows the largest bag on Italian banks and I am surprised that this happens when from 1 January the European Central Bank imposes on Italian citizens and Italian companies rules that will lead to the default of the Italian company, as they have denounced excellent bankers. It is a cosmic bomb on the production system and the Bank of Italy with yesterday's clarification puts a patch worse than the hole. This is an increase of 100 euros per citizen and 500 euros for the company, equal to 1% of that overtaking in ninety days. At least one third of the Italian production system will jam into those rules and jump. You are not interested in this as long as you are appropriate to the two banks that become one. To this you are reduced: the Italian speculative finance has become the flag of the Italian left. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u114	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u115	Mr President, if the economic recession is concerned, it is no less concerned about the current democratic recession. Liberaldemocracies are falling back all over the world: they have never been so few numerically in the last fifty years. Liberal Democratic principles are falling behind in the consciences of the peoples of the West. That's what the polls tell us. If there is a thermometer to measure the fever of democracies and the emergence of authoritarian and/or paternalistic tasks - the difference between the two concepts is subtle - the thermometer exists and is called Parliament, which is the place of democracy where the popular will is exercised. That Parliament must be defended reminds us of recent deeds by our friends and colleagues in the majority. The scenes remind us of it, and I'm talking about scenes because they were obviously stagings that didn't relate to values that were really felt. The scenes of the Movimento 5 Stars - we remind you - on the roof of Palazzo Montecitorio, branding copies of the Constitution in defense of the Parliament of the Republic, at those times threatened by governments that would never have dreamed of doing what this Government is doing today. We are reminded of this by the Party's much more recent actions - so-called - Democratic, which just two years ago, exactly in these days of two years ago, collected the signatures of senators currently sitting in this Chamber to appeal to the Constitutional Court and to protest against the violence suffered by this branch of Parliament, then by the Senate, by a Government (the Government was Count 1) which had prevented this branch of Parliament from assessing, judging and amending the then budget law. We are in a similar position today, but I do not think that the majority feel this democratic pathos. We are in even worse conditions than those of then, because the data tell us: of the more than 430 acts of government related to the pandemic only 2.7% had parliamentary nature; of the many decree-laws approved by the government 62 percent passed with a vote of confidence. The Government has deigned to answer parliamentary questions and questions a few times: 72% of questions and questions have not been answered. It has been abused - as you know - of a purely administrative instrument, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, judged illegitimate by the Court of Rome and we are witnessing today a maneuver that will have to be fully evaluated, really approved and certainly dismissed by this branch of Parliament within 24 hours. Colleagues, we are faced with the classic heterogeneous of ends: a Government born to restore constitutional and democratic balances and to give lustre to good politics, co-ordinated by bad demagogy, is abusing demagogy, has no political substance and is putting under the feet of the Constitution and democratic practice. I do not know if you realize that not only in republican history, but in the current chronicle of Europe Italy has reached a bad primacy: we are the country where Parliament has been most emptied of its constitutional functions. A liberal should not say this, but I am a realistic liberal: we could also accept all this; we live in an exceptional state and it can be accepted that in a state of exception limited in time, due to an obvious and serious national emergency, constitutional rights and prerogatives are compressed in favour of greater effectiveness and efficiency of the Government. This is not the case with all the evidence and it is not an opinion, but it is the numbers who say it: we are the European country with the greatest number of deaths for Covid; we are the European country in which the recession is most serious. 64.5% of the implementing decrees, i.e. those instruments, launched within the Ministries, have yet to be promulgated to give concrete effect to the decisions of the Government. It is such a huge thing that the Office for the Government Programme, with great insight into the Openpolis website, which carries out an action of meritorious transparency, has even stopped publishing the progress data of the decrees, thus adding to a lack of democratic spirit, a clear violation of parliamentary rights and prerogatives and an objective inability and inefficiency of the Government even a rare and serious lack of transparency. In this way, we are witnessing a budget law which the Parliamentary Budget Office recounts as a thousandprorogations, a sequence of interventions of a purely welfare nature which are projected to the present, which say nothing about the future and which are totally lacking in political sense. If this was, as is reasonable to expect, an appetizer of the Recovery and Resilience Plan that the Government will pass, it is clear that there will be no recovery and there will be no resilience. I believe that without democracy and without politics you cannot and cannot think that this Government has a future. I believe that without democracy and without politics you cannot and cannot think that with this Government Italy has a future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u116	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u117	Mr President, I rise with regard to the questions put by a number of colleagues in relation to a correction necessary to the budget law. I confirm that normative action is necessary to correct what is written in paragraph 8 of the budget law. The Government's intention was and remains to bring a further deduction for employee income, i.e. what was called the 80 euro bonus at the time, to 100 euros, as already decided for the second half of 2020, stabilising this rule from 2021. The technical report, which refers to the correct values, calculates the commitment linked to the implementation of this rule in EUR 3,299,800,000. What's the matter? Paragraph 8, as it is written in the draft budget law that we are discussing here, amends paragraph 2 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 3 of 2020, that is, that which has foreseen for the second half of 2020 the increase of the bonus 80 euros, but making reference for the beginning of the term to that semester, so much so that paragraph 2 is modified by writing that in the mores of a structural revision of the system of tax deductions, the further deduction, referred to in paragraph 1 - which is however the deduction relative only to six months - is due to the benefits starting from 1 July 2020. If this text remains, the deduction is not more than 1,200 euros to decrease, with all the parameters you know, but it becomes 600 euros, that is, half. That's the point. So not only is there not a problem of coverage, but if the norm remained as it is written, we would have about 1,600,000,000 euros that would not actually be committed because the deduction, according to law, would be half of what was in the intention of the Government and what is written in the technical report that refers to 960 euros plus 240, therefore 1,200, with all the parameters that you know. To intervene a rule of law is necessary and the Government intends to do so as soon as possible, essentially immediately after the entry into force of the budget law, with a decree-law that will intervene in this sense. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u120	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I believe that what Mr Misiani said, at least from the checks we are making in reality, can be called a very pre-pochism in the rules. In fact, in some cases, a Member may escape from an individual amendment, but not from a measure and an entity of this kind on a financial maneuver. [[Applause]] We believe that the justification and solution proposed by the Government in this case is not correct, because the norm makes structural a deduction of 1,200 euros per year; but making it structural, creates a failure to take for which there is no corresponding coverage. That therefore means that the budget law we are debating is not covered. Mr President, I want to speak very calmly and I want to be objective. We can discuss whether the lack of coverage upsets the balance of the budget, because Law 243 of 2012, which is implementing Article 81 of the Constitution, speaks of budgetary balance. But of course, if we talk about cover, in this case we approve an uncovered rule and, therefore, there is a risk of a budgetary deviation. That's the substance. [[Applause]] In fact, as the commitment for the whole year of EUR 1,200, the amount of the burden arising from the non-introduction is more than EUR 3 billion and not EUR 1,15 billion. That's the fact that it turns out. It is not possible to liquidate all this by saying that there are no more funds and that there is a reduction to EUR 600. There could be two solutions, the first of which sees the government really adopt a decree that provides for the reduction to 600 euros. However, this does not mean that today the forecast is 1,200 euros and there is no coverage. The question cannot be solved with a statement. The substance, gentlemen, is that we needed EUR 3 billion, while you put EUR 1.15 billion in it. I repeat, this is the substance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u123	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I have listened to the speech by Mr Misiani, who unfortunately has to bear on his shoulders the weight of the collective responsibility of this lousy figure. I would like to address him not so much as my colleagues in the majority who still retain a minimum of intellectual honesty, asking them if it is not time to say enough to the ruin of the institutions and the Senate in particular. Colleagues, do we realize where we've come from? We are having a technical debate in the Senate, in the middle of the general debate, which was to be held in the Commission, because it is there that we are dealing with these problems, but you did not allow us to do so. [[Applause]] Colleagues, this is no longer acceptable. This is the Senate of the Republic and we are discussing not just any measure, but the state budget. The haste generates confusion and sometimes even monsters, President Alberti Casellati. The procedures provided for in the Constitution, the laws and the Regulations serve, in our bicameral system, precisely this, that is to avoid these bad mistakes and these nasty figures that, then, are reflected on the image not of the Government, but of our country abroad. But can you imagine what an international investor who, due to his misfortune, was sitting here today in the Senate in front of an executive who, forty-eight hours after the provisional exercise, was wrong in the accounts of the financial maneuver? [[Applause]] Mr President, this is an unprecedented fact and an unprecedented gravity, because it is not so much about the substance, but rather about the faceliness and superficiality with which all this has been dealt with. The haste is the result of your divisions, your quarrels and blackmail within the majority. I remember that to call scandalous the method by which the Senate was imposed this timing are not Luca Ciriani of Brothers of Italy or colleagues of Forza Italia or of the League, but it was Senator Renzi no later than twenty-four hours ago. If it's scandalous for him, it certainly is for us, too. Forty-eight hours after the provisional exercise, which would be a tragedy not for the government, but for families, citizens and businesses, the Commission announces that it must still cut, sew, add, rethink and review. That is enough. We have reached a moment and a point beyond which the institutions cannot be trampled underfoot. I would appeal to you, Mr President, to make the cry of sorrow which comes at least from the opposition's benches in the most appropriate places. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u126	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his prompt and necessary response, because on a matter of this importance there was undoubtedly a need for intervention which could not be reduced to a single reply, so thank you to the Government for this clarification. Among other things, there are some reports that have appeared or are circulating also in the corridors that this is not only the element of the decree-corrective law, but that there are also other issues, for example the fact that a rule has been duplicated that was basically already contained in the decree ristori-c, which included a little 'all the decrees ristori, which has also been replicated on the budgetary maneuver with two different covers. In other words, it seems that the 50 million on the quac and the 50 million on the budget maneuver are added and that they become 100 million. This is about the rent operation. I would remind Senator Errani that it was one of the speeches that the majority had set out to improve in the amendment phase within Parliament. So there's this duplication, although I don't think that's the main theme. Some people also talk about the issue of a rule on education which had been removed from the accounting system, but which could be included in the corrective decree, because it seems that there has been a clearer situation on the cover. I wanted to understand, first of all, whether there are any other corrective measures, but I understand from your intervention that this remains the main element. I have no reason to doubt the words you have said, Deputy Minister, but I have no reason to doubt the words that Senator Pichetto Fratin has said, which I think is very expert on this matter and also has a long experience in the Budget Commission. At this point, to clarify the situation well in the interest of the Italians - this is the main thing - we need you, President Alberti Casellati, to give us, after a careful evaluation, the clarity of the norm to understand if actually there is no need for a further deviation and a further passage to the Chamber, but only a corrective decree is sufficient. I know that you are always very careful in verifying even the maxims, I would say that a further check on this maxim is necessary even before the government puts the trust, so at least we do the things done well, because we would not like to find ourselves voting on the confidence on a rule that is however incorrect and therefore with the risk that this will affect the very budget of our country at such a delicate stage. [[Applause]] All we ask of you, Mr President, is your speech to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u129	MANCA (PD). Mr President, as far as we are concerned, we intend to raise the President from a problem which, in our opinion, Vice-Minister Misiani has made clear with great precision and with great transparency, as it was necessary to do in this House, because in the face of a question such as what has been asked, a response from the Government was correct. I believe that the answer is transparent and precise and also shows the face of the difficulties within which the Government is moving to manage - and I believe that this is an essential political point that we, too, should begin to share - an emerging situation, in order to cross a pandemic like this, which needed a large amount of measures, consisting of numerous articles and paragraphs, where technical error is not something that can be attributed - I say - politically, with political responsibility towards the Government and the majority, because to administer the country and govern it in order to go through this crisis inevitably requires the assumption of a plurality of responsibility. Here the vice minister Misiani has correctly reported a decision equally responsible of the government, assumed to invariance of balances, in full respect of the balance of the budget, and therefore in full respect of the law of the budget on which we are intervening, therefore without modification of the balances and balances of public finances, because mathematics still is not an opinion: if that norm had a draw of 3.3 and as it is written has a draw of 1.6, it is inevitable that the correction serves in order to be able to apply the political will of the government, that moreover had already been repeated and emphasized on several occasions. I say this with extreme friendship and also with a great sense of responsibility towards my colleague Pichetto Fratin. We know that they unite us with the desire to deepen and to enter into the substance. I believe that, in the face of this clarification that the Government has brought us, there is no need to enter into further elements of technical evaluation. It has been declared here by Deputy Minister Misiani that everything happens to invariance of balances and in full respect of the balances. As far as we are concerned, this is a beautiful page of relationship between the Government and Parliament and it is also a very clear element for us to be able to continue, in legality, regularity and full absolution of political responsibility, our work and our debate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u132	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I appreciate the style in which the League Leader took note of the Government's response. It is a necessary answer, given the news that could suggest the risk of a problem relating to the maintenance of budgetary balance. This problem does not exist. There's no such thing as a cover-up problem. In fact, there is exactly the opposite problem, Mr Pichetto Fratin. Senator Pichetto Fratin, of course you know that every time you make a mistake, it's a mistake. Here there has been a mistake that must be corrected, but it must be corrected without questioning the correctness of the budget, the possibility of approving it and avoiding the provisional exercise. Therefore, despite all the attention, which I have no doubt the President of the Senate will put, there is no need for a speech by the President of the Senate, because, from this point of view, things are clear and transparent. Since I have appreciated, as I said in various speeches, that the opposition has worked to avoid the provisional exercise, despite the very short time, I would propose that we proceed, after sanitisation, with our debate for the approval of the budget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u133	Vice Minister Misiani, I ask you a direct question, taking into account what some members of this Senate have said: is there coverage in this measure or not? Please give a very dry answer: is the cover there, yes or no?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u134	Yes, Mr. President. Not only is there coverage, but now the measure is overcovered, because from Annex 3 and the technical report emerges a coverage of 3,299,800,000 euros. The norm, as it is written, costs half of that amount. So, there is an overcover of 1,649 and broken billions of euros.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u135	I would like to point out to everyone that yesterday the Budget Committee sent the opinion on budgetary balance in accordance with Article 126 (4). Deputy Minister Misiani today assures that there is no cover problem. In view of this, the opinion of the 5th Commission and the opinion of the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, I must say that the procedure is correct. Moreover, we will then check, through the corrective decree itself, whether what has been said will correspond to the truth. But we have no reason today not to believe what is said by the Deputy Minister and the 5th Commission. The sitting was suspended until 5.20 p.m. for the House's sanitisation. (The sitting was suspended at 16.20 a.m. and resumed at 17.22 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u136	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, it is with deep emotion that I would like to recall in this House a young employee of ours who unfortunately failed a few days after Christmas: Francesca Salvetti. She had only entered the Senate in 2005, but in a few years had become one of the pillars of the secretariat of the Defence Commission. Brilliant woman with lively intelligence, tireless working woman, competent and always available, Mrs. Salvetti was above all a girl full of energy and vitality. Its positive character and its ability to deal with the thousand daily difficulties of parliamentary work with an always constructive spirit and without ever losing a smile made it an important point of reference for both senators and colleagues. That same smile and the same incredible energy with which Mrs. Francesca Salvetti faced the terrible illness that had hit her just over two years ago, just after becoming a mother for the second time. The news of his premature disappearance was a cause of great pain. With Mrs. Salvetti, the Senate not only loses a valuable collaborator, but a beautiful person to whom everyone was attached, a smart girl, generous, solar, dynamic and combative. I am close to the family, husband Giovanni, little Matilde and Leonardo, to whom I renew my personal condolences and sentiments of affectionate and heartfelt participation, on behalf of this Assembly and of the whole Senate. In memory of Mrs Francesca Salvetti, I invite the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we come to the discussion of this budgetary manoeuvre with the knowledge that we have already paid the highest tribute that can be paid to a country and a community. (17.26) (Laus followed). We carry on the heart the weight of lost human lives and on the shoulders the burden of a bad and emergent conjuncture. The end of the tunnel is still not visible, yet we have a duty to imagine it and to understand how to reach it. The Government has chosen to move along a path in stages that today covers the ninth financial measure in the last ten months of the legislature. Everyone has completed the previous one, enriched it or even just corrected it for the better and the current finally begins to lay the foundations to look beyond the pandemic, to see the recovery beyond the crisis. When we talk about recovery, we inevitably end up talking about work, which is the central theme of this manoeuvre also thanks to the constructive relationship that has come to be created with the minority forces. The text before the House sought to balance policies of income and enterprise support with active policies of relaunching the production and economic system in general. In fact, we record the twelve-week extension of the social shock absorbers and the inclusion of considerable resources on the contributory reductions, both for employees and for the self-employed, and for the first time the self-employed members of the separate management will have the possibility of an extraordinary allowance of operational income continuity. This is an important step on the road to the reform of social shock absorbers that is already on Parliament's agenda for the near future. Important chapters of the maneuver are also reserved for pensioners and exodus, so-called fragile workers and women to whom the equal pay fund is dedicated, which is a sort of implicit commitment of Parliament to legislate in this area. Investments for the future are also the universal single allowance for families with children to whom more than three billion euros are reserved, the relocation allowance not only to those who receive the income of citizenship but also to the cassintegrati and the unemployed in Naspi, and the expansion contract that in a changing market is presented as a sort of generational pact. It is clear that in many cases mentioned and in others that I lack the time to remember, we are faced with the start of policies that will then have to find clarification and concreteness. I am thinking, for example, of the budgetary deviation that will serve in the coming months to strengthen the meshes in the network of restorative woven to safeguard those who have suffered the most from the effects of the crisis generated by the pandemic. In fact, it is urgent to begin to reason on the basis of production chains and to revise the concept of activity prevailing in relation to how it has been applied so far, in order to avoid that in the list of recipients of the measures, certain operators are unduly eclipsed. On the one hand, therefore, today's budget law brings the expected results to fruition, on the other taking on new challenges and new goals. All this thanks also to a changed European context, within which this Government has been able to bring Italy back among the protagonists. I would like to conclude by reminding you that, still on the subject of work, the echo of a crucial proposal from Europe, with which we will soon be confronted, on the subject of fair pay, is coming. It is a proposal aimed at establishing common requirements in the Union so that minimum wage convergence can be achieved upwards, whatever the system by which they are determined in the Member States. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. Around this objective a directive is developing which cannot and must not catch us unprepared, all the more so because of the intense work that the Senate, in particular, has already done on this subject during the current parliamentary term. Therefore, in budgetary reasoning, remedies and above all in the future, it is good to metabolize that a decision must be taken, and it must also be taken quickly, because we can accompany change instead of undergoing it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u138	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u139	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on the procedure I remind you that the law of counterfeit exists: what you do today to oppositions or to the system could, one day, turn against you with interest. The opinion of the Parliamentary Budget Office says that the increase in GDP, which you envisage in 6%, will actually be at least one point lower, and I would add that this year's fall will probably not be 9, as planned, but, unfortunately, something more. The opinion also says that the structure of the budget is partially indefinite: there is no balance between the items and there is uncertainty. In addition, the 88.5 billion recovery fund you're talking about being used for the replacement mechanism has time limits, so the Parliamentary Budget Office invites you to be careful about how and when you can use them. Moreover, the tax feedback as a source of coverage 2022-2023 is uncertain and incorrect (it would go to finance tax reform); possibly the profits deriving from tax maneuvers from investments go into the budget to make that homogeneity and that greater definition of which is blamed. It is 40 billion deficits, but it is 73.6 million needs; the deviations are separate. The gap is already 108 billion and we have another 20 billion in sight. You have done, all of you to the Government in recent years - and we oppositions have been forced to say no, except on deviations by collaboration and concreteness - an excess of standardization. In successive decree-laws there are volumes of provisions that are also contradictory and difficult to implement. I have heard about 110% earlier from a colleague that you will propose a further extension because June 2022 is not enough; we must go at least to the end 2023, otherwise it does not go - I tell you as a finding, I report the ideas of the operators in the sector - and also, it must be simplified. You have made so many referrals, but the tax records before or after will arrive and, in my opinion, the revenue agency scalped - and even too - in the statements. It would in some way be tacit with a measure. The eviction blockade at 30 June, already mentioned by my colleague Caliendo, makes me think that you still resent the owners, who have invested and have not stolen housing or real estate investments. The ban on dismissal will, unfortunately, pay dearly after 31 March. The lottery of receipts and cashback - I've said it before, but maybe I'm a vox clamantis in the desert - are diseducational and deeply wrong. Europe has also said that about cashback, but Europe listens to it whenever you want, and when you don't care, you don't hear it. Why must there be a cost of billions to the state to make cashback when one can pay as he pleases? If you want to pay with your credit card, it's fine. I never understood the repeal of the money transfer tax; I just couldn't understand the essence of it. Someone said it favors some kind of mob carrying money abroad. We were talking about the Nigerian mob, but, maybe, they're indulging in certain newspapers. The 1,000 euros for tap filtering systems go to the facilities for renovations; there would be a lot to say about water, but perhaps an educational work counts. In 2021 we will have less revenue; I don't know, but I hope you have taken account of the fall in excise duties on petrol, diesel and petroleum products, because in 2020 there were less consumption. Also remember that the regional and municipal additionals on the Irpef, together with other municipal revenues, such as urbanization charges, will have a very strong reduction and the state will have to refresh the local authorities to support them. In industrial policy the concept of nationalization prevails, as a colleague said before; I refrain from commenting on the issues of Mount Paschi or Whirlpool, which, however, closes (you spent months telling her that you would solve the problem). The restorators have too low amounts, which solve no problem; you had to ask for instructions from Merkel, the one who wants to command us: he has compensated everyone for all the turnover they have lost, but then he commands in Europe and he also commands over us, but the vaccines buys them on his own. I read $800 million to Parliament for the indisputable demands of the House: there is an assault on diligence. A colleague talked about the problems of the flood; well, I believe that in writing the decree-law that you will be going to correct that accounting problem that was mentioned earlier you could also decide that those 800 million, instead of being destined for the assault of diligence with the bonus glasses, smartphones, cargo bikes, knives for the cooks, can go for the flood (mys is a suggestion). Finally, as I said once again with humility, when President Mattarella, on the occasion of the speech of 31 December, but also President Conte speak to the Italians, they do it clearly: we are in trouble, we have very serious problems, perhaps we are also wrong, we can recognize it, but we ask you for a sacrifice to make the best of health, to carry out vaccination and to manage any new wave of the pandemic - but we hope there are none - because we want to start again. In order to start again, however, public works must be started, if you agree with each other, since every time there is something to vote on the high-speed train (TAV) mess happens. Moreover, since the recovery fund is close to my heart, I suggest to the Deputy Minister and the Undersecretary an article in the daily newspaper "Italy Today" of 15 December, in which it is said that for the expert of European funds Del Monaco (prodian) the balance for Italy will be negative, so the quarrels in the Government are on nothing. It has been published in Huffington Post and Italy Today it says that with the recovery fund system we will lose and this is my belief. In conclusion, we must produce in Italy: the manufacturer, who was and is strong, must not be killed; agriculture must defend our interests, our prices and not equal to the East; Britain will do so in 2021. We need a few rules, simple and clear: fiscal white year, as Forza Italia says, then we will have more revenue and more employment [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u140	Colleagues, I take the opportunity to draw your attention to the absolute respect for the times and to a self-quota, because from now on we have more than three hours of general discussion and then twenty votes. After three hours, the House's sanitization takes place for an hour, so if we can do everything first, it is an account, otherwise, we will suspend the sitting and vote later. Senator Anastasi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I would like to reduce the speaking time, I will give a written memory, but I would like to say something about the measure that we are about to vote on. In this tormented draft budget law, also due to obstructionisms of the opposition to the House, we have included some measures that look at the present, which have concerned the social cohesion of our country and have held together the social fabric, but also look to the future. I quote a few: the 100% contribution for three years for companies employing under 35 workers, the extension of women's option and the renewal of social EPAs, the boost to the labour market in Southern Italy (with a tax system that benefits companies in the Mezzogiorno, which can thus continue to enjoy a 30% reduction in contributions), the baby bonus, the strengthening of citizenship income and its controls. The extent to which I would like to dwell, in which I strongly believe and to whose editorial staff I have contributed, collaborating with my colleagues in the Chamber and Senate and with the members of the Government in a great collective and common effort, is the well-known superbonus. I'm particularly proud of that. It is a means of relaunching and developing that allows a tax deduction to be obtained in excess of the sum spent. This measure has given new impetus to private construction and has brought together - what has ever happened in the history of this Republic - the productive world, construction, environmental associations, trade unions, professionals, banks and finance, realities that had never sat at the same table and that now all push together to support this vision of Country. We have strengthened this measure with the enlargement of time: we have extended it to mid 2022 and, even in some cases, to 2023. Definitely next year with the new budgetary deviation we will find the funds to extend this measure to all until 2023. It is a point of honour for this majority and a commitment that we are now making and that we will be completing. I would like to explain the further improvements made to this measure. For the citizens we have the collabent buildings, which before could not make superbonus, while now they can; we have inserted the interventions aimed at the elimination of architectural barriers; we have added for these interventions also the natural persons owning buildings up to four units real estate, that were previously excluded. We have allowed to increase the amounts for the bonus earthquake up to 50% for those who have been affected by earthquakes since 2008 and for municipalities for which the state of emergency has been declared. For the earthquakes that have occurred since 1 April 2019, anti-seismic interventions are due for the amount exceeding the contribution planned for the reconstruction. We also made a very targeted intervention on charging columns for electric vehicles, because the main driver of the expansion of electric mobility is having a charging column at home, as well as finding it on the roads. We have therefore inserted a targeted intervention for the charging columns, providing one for each real estate unit in the superbonus at 110 percent. We have re-modulated the legislation, which makes the pair with another, which provides that every 50 kilometers in the highway network must be present at least one charging column. We're giving an impulse to electric mobility. In short, it is undeniable that with the superbonus we are taking a step forward for a green rebirth, but the path is far from complete. I also say to those who in this House - I am addressing the right side of the Chamber - are still talking about drills, incinerators and big useless works (which are huge waste of public money) or work, without understanding that it needs qualified people - it is about training and retraining that the most important challenge will be played - that we speak instead of digitalization, hydrogen, entire production chains converted to green, productive reshoring and telemedicine. I'd like these two distant visions to find a rendezvous point. This is a point that we must pursue for the good of our country. I'm ready and all the Movimento 5 Stars is. Let's meet and talk seriously about the future of this country. In this spirit, I hope that the ambitious goal of accompanying the country out of the crisis and illuminating tomorrow can be achieved as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u142	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u143	Mr President, allow me to start by thinking about the Croatian citizens affected by a major earthquake of magnitude 6.4. [[Applause]] It is an experience that I have experienced several times and I fully understand how they can feel. The shocks, among other things, were also clearly felt in Italy, with numerous calls to Civil Protection and requests for assistance. I know from experience that the main one is followed by a series of aftershocks, so I fear that this moment will continue over time (with the hope that what has just happened was the main shock). Coming to this debate, today we are intervening on what should be one of the most important laws ever passed by Parliament, the fundamental one of the State: the budget law. I'm parole because, unfortunately, it's not like that anymore. Some colleagues have complained that ours has become a sort of monocameral system. I do not agree very much, because I think we are closer to a dictatorial phase. [[Applause]] In a single camera system, in fact, at least one of the two rooms decides. At present, however, we find ourselves increasingly having to convert decrees-laws into laws on which the Government builds trust. Therefore, we are not only deprived of the prerogative of being able to modify them, in accordance with the procedure laid down in our legal system, but, once the question of trust is raised, we do not essentially discuss them, because it becomes a useless activity. But this is the least of the evils, because, alongside an excess of decree-laws, we find ourselves also a proliferation of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, administrative acts by which the Government deprives us of our fundamental freedoms and our constitutional rights, which, among other things, are completely outside the control, supervision and possibility of intervention of Parliament. Therefore, at this stage, Parliament as a whole, not in one of the two chambers, is also deprived of the power conferred by the Constitution, that is, the legislative power. [[Applause]] The majority object that this is a necessity determined by the contingent situation, but it is not true, because, if we see the criteria by which the Committee on Sustainable Finance will be appointed, criteria established by the budget law, we find the DPCM again. But how? The Assembly had stigmatized the abuse of this instrument, the same majority had hoped that it would not happen and, as a criterion for the appointment of a committee, which will be fundamental in the future decisions of the Government and in the use of the resources fundamental to our recovery fund economy, do we find the DCCM again? So either someone is mocking Parliament, or they are not giving themselves the right value to the statements that are being made in this House. This is very serious, because what we are saying here is not a representation of a personal opinion, but what the people have called us to intervene for, to plead precisely those causes. I am a history enthusiast, so I could remember and think that it is not a novelty for Italy to resort - as I said before - to dictatorial phases and dictators. In the ancient and glorious history of Rome, for example, when there was an important crisis, so the usual solutions were not enough, a dictator was appointed. So already 2,500 years ago we had examples of dictators, but then we had Cincinnato, not Count as dictator. [[Applause]] , which by a majority force has been called institutional illiteracy. In view of our history, we are in charge of a dictator called institutional illiterate. [[Protests.]] Colleagues, I didn't call him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u144	Senator, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u145	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). I am deprived not only of the right to express my thoughts, but also to report what they say. [[Applause.]] I am referring to what the newspapers report about Mr Renzi's statements. But this can only mean two things. The first is that the Count Government is finished, because, if a majority force thinks that its President of the Council is an institutional illiterate, it obviously has taken away his trust. The second, as an alternative, means that Italy Viva is willing to do anything, in order to remain in the Government. [[Applause]] The near future will tell us. The present, however, leaves us with a President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers more concerned about his image than about his measures, which are almost always commercials, demonstrating that he goes on television to announce them, even before coming to Parliament and explaining them to us. Spot measures as was the click day. [[Applause]] Spot measures such as cashback, for which it was announced that they would be returned to the Italians 150 euros per person and it turns out that, with the planned financial envelope, at most we will reach a third. However, having learned nothing from this, it introduces the water bonus, providing 20 million coverage, with which you will not be able to cover even a capital of the medium large Province, but only a small one. Unfortunately, time is almost over, so I'll be very quick. The Communes have been mortified. In the maneuver there is the possibility of obtaining funding for the thermal efficiency of schools, but excluding the municipalities. I had the privilege, the burden and the honour of wearing the tricolor band for three terms and I was in trenches, like all mayor colleagues: all my mayors, those who give the first answers to the population, are excluded from funding for schools. [[Applause]] That is why I tabled an agenda, which was rejected. All this is also demonstrated by the Imu: I had asked, always with an agenda, for the exemption for the houses destroyed by the earthquake; from 2022 we will return to pay it on houses that no longer exist. [[Applause]] This is demonstrated by many other demagogic and meaningless measures, such as funding for associations that assist wildlife. All right, it's okay to help them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u146	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u147	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). You are right, Mr President, I have been very long, but there were too many things to say. It is okay to help associations that assist wildlife, but where are the funds for the refreshment of the damage caused by it? [[Applause]] And again the hydrogeological failure, one of the problems of our nation: they want to solve it with fixed-term assumptions, which will expire in a year. Then there is the superbonus, on which other colleagues will dwell. There's still a lot to say. Thank you for your attention and we hope that our common sense proposals will be accepted on the next occasion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u148	From now on I apply the guillotine rule: the time is set, it just falls. He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we were not experiencing the biggest health, social and economic crisis in recent decades, it would be a laugh to find ourselves today, 29 December, having to vote on a budget law for next year almost without even having the opportunity to discuss it and see it. It would be even more laughable, ladies and gentlemen, if we think that, while the opposition is speaking in this House on the subject of this measure, which concerns the government's economic and social programme for 2021, there is nothing but talking about the next Commission, which will have to deal with everything that is not being done now. Mr President, it would be very funny to think that a party, which I believe is still part of this majority, yesterday presented, with slides, what the newspapers have called a new economic programme, quite different from what the current Government wants to present to the Italians. I repeat, it would be very funny, ladies and gentlemen, but we, who are a serious opposition, who put the interests of Italians first, in these hours we see too many of our compatriots crying for the consequences of what you have done in recent months and we really do not want to laugh. We are going to vote - indeed, you are going to vote, colleagues in the majority - on a draft budget law which makes no sense, both technically and politically. What, from a technical point of view, are the measures taken to help those categories that the pandemic has destroyed and that are almost in danger of disappearing? What are the measures that will be made available in the coming months to bartenders, restaurants and traders who have not been able to work during this Christmas period and who, indeed, must fight more and more against the unfair competition of foreign platforms that in Italy do the beautiful and bad weather? What are the choices that will help Italian tour operators, who are increasingly on their knees and do not know how to survive this endless period? What decisions have you taken, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to help the local authorities that will have to face increasing current expenditure in the coming months to cope with the social crisis, while the revenues will be extremely lower, because of a social crisis that everyone could expect, but that you are not able to combat? I have the impression - and I believe I am not mistaken - that what we are about to vote on is a weak and empty budget law, which the problems want to postpone and not tackle. You have prepared a package of measures, partly acceptable, in which your only obsession emerges, which is to continue to survive. I have read every chapter of this measure and, when I saw that you still find hundreds of millions of euros for citizenship income (even until 2029, while this Government may not even reach 2022), I realized that nothing has changed in these months. We are still in a situation in which we lack a political vision, an economic strategy and the ability to admit that the revival of the country must go through the wealth produced by work, businesses, artisans, VAT matches, traders, families and all those categories that in recent months unfortunately you have abandoned. All this is missing; it lacks the courage to tell the Italians that you have failed; it lacks the courage to tell the country that you have wrong; it lacks the courage to say that in the last few months you should have thought about how to save the country and all you have done is to think about how to save your seats. Of course, your political time is over and the Italians, who have understood it, when they are called to vote, will know who to entrust the leadership of the country, and it will certainly not be you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u150	Senator Carbone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a quarter of the measures of this budget law, virtually 7.6 billion, are linked to the financing of emergency measures for the sectors that are still facing this very serious crisis. We are talking about support for businesses and families, but above all for the tourism, culture and entertainment sectors, as well as resources for school and public transport, to which we must also add the 18 billion of the various decrees of restauration: I therefore believe it is unthinkable to say that Italy has not implemented an adequate fiscal response. It was Europe's second largest response by size and size, so I believe that any accusation that the state's economic response has not been adequate is absolutely to be rejected. The remaining three quarters of the manoeuvre (23 billion) go to finance non-emergency interventions. It has to be said that the text has been greatly improved, also thanks to the work of Italy Viva, which, in addition to the de-taxation of the contributions of the self-employed and VAT consignments for almost one billion, has also received a non-employment allowance for the small self-employed. In addition to the aid to self-employed workers who have lost a third of their income in recent months, I would like to highlight and highlight also an important result obtained on compulsory paternity leave, which goes from seven to ten days. Another important contribution of Italy Viva has arrived on the tax credit for the losses of GDP, the individual savings plans, valid only for 2021, to try precisely to stimulate investments in small and medium-sized Italian enterprises. I am also thinking of the extension of the implementation of plastic tax and sugar tax to 2022, in order to allow companies to convert in the production of more environmentally friendly materials and in the production of substances that do not favor child obesity, a mission that has been made even more complex by the pandemic. Always to talk about concrete things, on the merits, our support to these companies to have more time to be converted is more than tangible. In these months, Italy Viva is restoring the sense of a policy that can listen: listen to the social partners and the cry of pain that comes from many categories and try to find answers, because continuing to feed the idea of a policy far from people's lives, that does not look and does not listen, is wrong. Only a few minutes ago came yet another cry of alarm launched by Confindustria, which begged the President of the Council to make an extra effort to give answers to the productive engine of the Country, which is waiting with hope to have a strategic vision for the rebirth from here to the next twenty years. The recovery plan is a historic opportunity and its immense opportunities must not be used to distribute blindly resources that we will never have for the next hundred years. Yesterday, giving the Italians a strategic-operational program for the correct use of those resources, Italy Viva showed what it means to make politics and exercise democracy by the force of ideas, even in contrast with the other political forces of the majority. She's taken on a responsibility. It is now up to President Conte to treasure the goodness of our suggestions. The ideas of a majority force must be respected and, if not shared by the whole Government, they must be motivated. Our proposals are concrete and feasible, the result of a careful and constructive political elaboration of the contributions that come from the business world, the autonomous, VAT matches, school, culture and tourism: they are ideas that can be transformed into reality and are shared, yes, by a silence-consension of many Members of this House, from the right and from the left. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by making one last thought, that the Premier and the majority should treasure it. In this case, I would like to emphasize that it is not Renzi and Italy Viva who play the neck bone, but the country, the whole Italy and the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u152	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget law we are discussing today addresses the most difficult economic situation since the Second World War. It would have been necessary to cope with this serious moment by proposing a clear vision on how to help Italians to recover as soon as possible from the very serious difficulties they face. We would have expected a coherent project, in view of the huge resources available to the Government, obtained also thanks to the opposition, which voted budget deviations, without being obliged to do so, for 140 billion. On the contrary, unfortunately, there is a complete lack of a future project and an idea of society. You have frustrated the sacrifices of the Italians in a bunch of copious and inconsistent measures, dispersing them into hundreds of bonuses. Even fund gender propaganda in schools, providing three million euros to LGBT associations. The only figure that emerges is improvisation, the result of old welfare logics and clientele. You, ladies and gentlemen, are spending resources borrowed from future generations. It would have been your duty to concentrate them in order to support the productive activities, unblock the yards and the investments in infrastructures, the self-employment like that dependent. Instead, you made a soulless plan. We do not say that, but Renzi, who is part of your majority. You've made a ragazzonato collage, which doesn't meet the needs of Italians. We have asked you to reduce taxes and to suspend, for example, the payment of 31 million debitory folders that are coming to the Italians, already prostrate and exhausted. But you, nothing. However, you have found a way of facilitating immigrants once again by abolishing the tax on money transfers abroad by means of so-called money transfers. A river of cash: Italians cannot use it, but you facilitate its use by immigrants. A river of money earned in black, very often the result of illegal activity. We know very well that, for example, through money transfers, Nigerian mafia funds are transferred abroad. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the per capita amount that every Nigerian in Italy transmits abroad every year? 11,806 bucks. And it's a figure derived from an investigation by Gabanelli a few months ago published in the...Corriere of the evening, not some bad sovereignist. Every Nigerian, in addition to supporting himself, can save almost 12,000 euros in Italy: Italians should learn from Nigerians how to make money. The use of cash, however, you expect for them, but not for us, so that their shady business continues as they have continued until today. To come to justice, which is the subject of my main interest, the situation is even worse, if possible. In the three years 2021-23 there will be no major interventions: the resources allocated to justice occupy only 1.2% of the total expenditure of the State even with a decrease of 0.1% compared to the average of the previous years. It is a pity that the only positive and just thing you have done in this area - namely to finally establish a rule of justice and common sense, according to which the legal costs of those who are acquitted in a criminal trial must be returned by the State that unfairly inquisited that citizen - are not adequately financed. Yet we know very well that the condition of Italian justice is fundamental in order to allow to come to Italy to those who want to invest foreign capital from abroad, because the time to render justice is one of the parameters that are most taken into consideration. Well, the Government itself admits that the average duration of civil and criminal proceedings (of 376 and 382 days respectively) will not be diminished in 2021, regardless of the difficulties of the administration of justice that depend on the emergency Covid. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude with a comment. You see, the health issue is not independent of the economic one. We have now fully understood that the economy will only start again when health conditions are in place so that society can resume its walk and that investment and work can resume. While the other major nations, such as Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States, are proceeding very much through the vaccination of hundreds of thousands or millions of their fellow citizens, we do not even have a clear and precise plan today of how we will be able to do so. Today the ban is closed to hire the health care staff that will be necessary for vaccinations. Then it was good for President Giorgia Meloni to ask the government to make public, day by day, how the vaccines proceed. [[Applause]] It is a fundamental issue not only for the health of Italians, but also for the true recovery of our economy, which cannot remain behind, because of your inability, in relation to the economies of the other great European and Western countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u154	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u155	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have spoken about the budget law, so there is a fear of saying some inaccuracies, but Mr Vice-Minister will forgive me and try to grasp the general sense of the intervention. I begin with a reflection of form, which sometimes assumes the importance of the substance. I would have expected a link between the budget law for 2021 and the Italian recovery plan, in which you have identified six macro areas (then I will make an intervention on the digital economy), to which all the more than 700 paragraphs of the first could have been traced. On the other hand, I would have tried to deal with two important issues: one is certainly the workers and the other the enterprises, because - I say this in a perhaps a bit rough, as a progressive - the debt is quite out of control, Mr Deputy Minister, so, if we have to get into debt further, we absolutely have to spend the resources very well. You also know that the country is impoverishing itself and has been accumulating inequalities for several years. So sooner or later, this Parliament will have to reflect very secularly and freely on two major issues: on the one hand, unreceived appropriations, which more or less should amount to 100 billion, and, on the other hand, so-called private assets, which amount to more or less 10 trillion. These are two considerations which I think we will have to do very shortly and which we should have done already. I do not see a reflection, out of line, that points to an intelligent management of these unpaid credits, in their different categories - let us not call it condoning, but an intelligent sanatoria - just as I do not see, on the other hand, an extraordinary contribution. I report the indices of Oxfam, an international organization that basically reads the distribution of wealth in the world, according to which in Italy 5 percent richer of the population has a heritage equal to that of 90 percent poorer. The discourse on an extraordinary contribution is already being carried out in many other countries, which have the content of these data. Turning instead to the part of intervention more of merit and related to the digital economy, I recall that the DESI index (digital economy and society index), as the Deputy Minister knows, puts us as a taillight in the European ranking: I am not saying what are the various indicators that put us at the bottom of the ranking relative to the aforementioned index. However, I find it worrying that micro-enterprises have a structural difficulty in finding digital skills that can support growth and competitiveness. I would add a very worrying fact, however, that the low supply of skills goes hand in hand with a weak demand on the part of businesses, and that is something that needs to be reflected. Secondly, I have seen a lot of money in addition to bonuses, which I think there is also a Creativity Fund. It's okay to support the Italian creative industry, but first I would have expected the establishment of a fund, which I would have called for the maintenance of human capital, for the creation of new profiles and new professionalism, especially in the digital economy, for all activities of reskilling and upskilling. One could therefore have thought of a kind of tax credit, which encourages entrepreneurs to maintain human capital, because the maintenance of human capital will be a topic for the coming years, since young people will probably have to change jobs seven, eight, nine or ten times. There is also the world of start-ups, from which it is necessary to draw in order to create an innovative, flexible, flexible and very fast economy, even at the service of the medium and large enterprise. I believe that the time is now ripe to think and support a new generation not only of incubators, but of incubators and accelerators, with which we first help these realities and then accelerate them towards the market. All this within ecosystems, which we can also imagine at regional level, if there are conditions, to give services, physical spaces and networking relationships and to stimulate the so-called development of open innovation processes, to promote not only local economies, but also the national economy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tiraboschi, I invite you to conclude because your time is over. TIRABOCHI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. Last but not least, a National Agency for Artificial Intelligence was announced, which should have been established in Turin. I see nothing and, thinking of the 48 or 49 billion euros of the recovery fund, a mention of this agency should have been seen in the budget law. This makes us very concerned, for the strategic direction that Italy will want to give to itself and not only, even at European Union level. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u156	He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, the one we are examining is a budget law in which we see economic resources scattered in a thousand streams, some even imaginative or at least of little impact on the daily lives of citizens. On the other hand, there is little room for investment for fragile workers, a category of people we have talked about on several occasions, but who are hardly listened to: cancer patients, transplanters, immunodepressants, whose health is further at risk, if exposed to the Covid contagion in the workplace or on the public transport used to go there. There would be smart working, but this possibility is not accessible to anyone because of the tasks that often cannot be changed, given the nature and type of companies for which the interested ones work. This is why it is essential that the possibility of leaving work is ensured without any impact on the behaviour, i.e. the total number of days of absence possible during the year. During the examination of the Chamber, partial solution was put to the government's failure to intervene, and this was done only thanks to the pressure of the League and other opposition forces; in particular, in addition to myself, thanks to Senator Nisini and Mr Alessandra Locatelli. [[Applause.]] It is therefore tantalizing to witness the attempt to take credit for it, as some 5 Star exponent is doing. Learn from your PD allies to adopt the dignity of silence and thank us for solving a problem created by you. [[Applause]] However, Article 81-a, although positive, is insufficient for two orders of reasons: it does not solve, with the lack of retroactive effect, the lack of coverage in the period from 16 October to 31 December 2020; and above all, specifying that absence is equivalent to a virtual hospitalization, there is no certainty that this does not affect the behaviour, because not all types of contract provide for it. This must be explicitly specified in the law. The League has, at my first signature, tabled an amendment and an agenda that sets a solution or, in the alternative, commits the Government to adopt improvements, but unfortunately your choice to put yet another question of trust will make it impossible to intervene. Here in the Senate, in fact, unlike the House, even the agendas cannot be voted on. The problem remains and you with your inability, with your immobility, with your ineptitude, remain. Let's hope 2021 brings us the removal of both. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u158	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u159	Mr President, Covid has put us in an exceptional situation, so it is absurd to seek normality in circumstances like this and continue to talk about inadequate practice and bicameralism or denied parliamentaryism, because we do not know how it would have gone. All this talk is therefore instrumental. We would not have accepted, in a condition of normality, such an exceptional situation. This budget law must therefore be dismissed and not used. In this intervention, however, I will not talk about the necessary and due responses, these 40 billion that go to heal many situations, nor about the incentives that we could save ourselves, such as those for the euro 6 cars with CO2 emissions up to 135 grams per kilometre. I support this draft budget law, but I do not want to highlight three issues, in particular, in which I find serious problems that describe a vision that is not reassuring. I shall talk about two amendments which have not been passed to the House and one which has been approved. The amendment that postpones the expiry of the funds to newspapers managed by cooperatives benefiting from a public quota, including the manifesto, has not passed. It is a question of pluralism of information understood as a function of public good: while there is growing a forest of public aid - sacred, we have said - in all sectors of the economy, against the manifesto it has done exactly the opposite. So what is the point of talking about the defence of pluralism and information if words are then contradicted in practice? A reform of the sector is also constantly being discussed, but cuts are being made in a linear way. Public money has been given for whatever, we must say, even for the eighth centenary of the nativity scene and for the government smartphone with the subscription to two online newspapers. At the moment I read that the ideology on the equivalence between information and market is certainly confirmed and this is a very problematic point. Secondly, the amendment on the so-called patrimony, unfortunate name, has not been passed. It provided for a progressive rate of 0.2% for the first tranche from EUR 500,000 to EUR 1 million in assets owned, up to 2% for those of more than EUR 50 million. It should have been seen as a fairer and more progressive taxation, not as an anathema. How do we think the debt generated by the pandemic should be repaid? The last time the recipe was clear: linear cuts in public services, investments, research and health. The result is that the crisis pays for those who work to live, from the middle class down. It has been shown that the richest minority of the population has become even richer in this pandemic. This is because clear political choices have been made in recent decades: financial deregulation, alienation of public assets, tax advantages for large capitals. In Europe, the richest 10% of the population holds 64% of the wealth. All this in our country is aggravated by the regime of donations and successions. The centre-right says that this amendment would kill the economy of those who produce jobs, but that is not the case. The opposite is true. Huge capitalization is one of the reasons for low economic growth. Those who had the resources to invest in research, innovation and work have legitimately preferred to accumulate for a simple reason: It's okay. Nor has the agenda passed. So I wonder if the government wants to rethink a fairer, more progressive and, if anything, environmentally friendly tax. We'll see about that in the proxy. Thirdly, instead, an amendment of the League has passed which provides that in the Regions under special statute and in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the greater permanent revenues remain acquired in their respective budgets. A very technical amendment that is certainly an assist to the principle of the residual tax that requires the greater revenue for tax revenues to remain on land. But what is really important is that this amendment is part of a framework of continuous incursions into the definition of fiscal federalism before the LEPs are defined. In this context, the excerpt from the former article 151 of the law that deferred a further two years - to 2023 - the financing mechanism of the Regions precisely because of the lack of definition of the LEPs, which was then reinserted, but due to the strong pressures, in the decree-ristori-quattro law. Since the draft budget law deals with it, it is also worth saying something about the allocation of the recovery fund. In the draft recovery and resilience plan that was discussed at the Council of Ministers, reference is still made to the 34 percent clause for the South as a limit for the extraordinary investments decided by Europe and it is not taken into account that Italy has obtained 209 billion resources from Brussels precisely because the South gap has been recognized as the largest among the European countries and that the calculation has been made on the basis of indisputable parameters that are, yes, the population, but also the level of unemployment, social inequalities and per capita income. A principle not only European, but which was also reaffirmed to Parliament in the report of the 5th Commission, which identified priorities in the use of the recovery fund, which was adopted in this House on 13 October. In the last Eurispes report - and I conclude - on page 725 we read: If of the total public expenditure, it is considered the slice that every year the South should have received as a percentage of its population... - the famous 34 percent never invested by the State to the South... - it emerges that, overall, from 2000 to 2017, the corresponding amount deducted from it amounts to more than 840 billion euros net. A huge inequality that needs to be remedied as soon as possible, and the sooner tomorrow is. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u160	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I do not hide any discomfort in intervening in this general debate on one of the most important, if not the most important, acts of parliamentary activity: the budget law, precisely. Why do I feel this discomfort, which I think should be common to all of us in this branch of Parliament, and which I would call embarrassing for you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? My discomfort arises from the difficulty of having to learn, understand, analyze and discuss such an important measure for the nation in a little more than a few hours. A few hours when the Commission should have analysed such a complex and decisive measure, tabled amendments to correct any critical issues that have emerged during the House's approval, voted on the amendments, come to the House to debate a more in-depth political debate and, finally, deliberate and allow every senator to vote consciously, or at least one vote with a minimum of knowledge of the cause. None of this. It is a method which has now become a practice in this parliamentary term: a practice which I fail to define as the subversive, for which Parliament is completely exonerated and the prerogatives of technical, legal and political analysis of every senator or Member of Parliament are in fact cancelled. I say this to my colleagues in the majority, particularly my colleagues in the PD and in Italy Viva, who I think are more attentive to the issues of law and who have a more rooted political culture than those who are sitting with them today, but who do not go beyond the "vaffa" and the "palazzo" to be opened like a can of tuna, which thinks of scooters or wheelchairs, but which has no other objective but to keep the chair. I always remind my colleagues of PD and Italia Viva when they, a little over a year ago, occupied the benches of the Government with the Constitution in their hands. Perhaps you too have been struck by the fear of the electorate's judgment and you forget everything to stay glued to your seats? Yet, today it is you who do exactly what you contested the then majority. What fascinates me even more is silence, a deafening silence that comes from the highest hill of Rome, which certainly observes the transformation of our institutional system, now reduced to a single camera system in fact. I would have expected more attention and some clearer signals, and not a silence - I repeat - so deafening. And I mean it with the utmost respect. All this is not enough for this majority; indeed, we have reached the point that, in order to maintain a consensus by now, it does not hesitate to enact a budget law full of tips, with such arrogance that it does not even bother to verify the coverage, so much so that, thanks to the work of fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy, they were forced to postpone the text to the Commission. I mean, a big mess, which adds up to today's episode, with the government admitting it was wrong. The inability of this Executive to manage the nation and above all the pulling to live in order to maintain the armchairs is now clear. More than 100 billion spent with previous decrees, with ineffective measures not only to buffer the emergency, but above all useless to revive the economy. Not content, you have invented a draft budget law of which citizens, local authorities, but above all businesses do not need; a measure without vision, without a project, with little development, little of everything, but with a lot of welfare and many tips. As a Member of the 9th Commission, I would like to focus on this issue and take an overall look at the content of the draft budget law which covers this primary sector by definition, but also by importance. Even in this draft budget law, although the measures are sufficiently concentrated, resources are limited and insufficient to breathe life into the sector. I am thinking of the wine sector, hard hit by the anti-Covid measures with the closure of the hotel-restaurant-café (Horeca), on which 10 million euros were allocated for storage. This is a necessary measure, but with insufficient resources. Of course, it is better than nothing, but it is clear that there is a lack of awareness of the consistency of the sector, which generates a turnover of more than EUR 10 billion. That amount is enough to satisfy perhaps a few cellars. I am also thinking of the 10 million for the pig-growing sector. They are crumbs, while there is nothing for sectors such as flora and for the milk chain, hard hit by the crisis. Yet there is a million euro for animal associations, but not one euro to compensate for the damage caused by wildlife; we do not think of hunting as a public activity useful for the containment of wildlife: I am thinking in particular of the egg products, which have become a real scourge. We remember fishing, fortunately, with a specific fund and 12 million for stopping fishing, but there is no overall strategy for the sector and for the revival of activity, for example with a national plan for the renewal of the fleet's equipment, which is old and in fact unproductive. However, if this is too complicated for the Minister, at least he would urge the European Commission to put the same commitment that he puts in defending the interests of the French fishermen of the North in defending also those of the Italian fishermen. Similarly, the government should defend not only the interests but also the right of our fishermen to fish. However, the lack of vision is unfortunately widespread for the whole agricultural sector. In this maneuver, if we really wanted to give a signal to the companies and in particular to the agricultural world, we had to have the courage to eliminate the sugar tax, instead we simply prolong its entry into force and moreover the audience of those who are subject to payment, as well as plastic tax. At this time of crisis, removing taxes and not extending them would have been a positive signal, that it would have created that element of confidence needed for entrepreneurs to plan investments that they consider inappropriate and risky today because of these demagogic and unnecessary taxes. In conclusion, Mr President, in the face of a budget bill of almost EUR 40 billion, we read statements by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy at the limit of triumphalism for the 400 million resources obtained for the sector. I do not know if the Minister has realized that agriculture has been allocated a few crumbs, perhaps because too much in the negotiations for the reshuffle of government: only crumbs, agriculture nothing. Between decree-laws and financial maneuver almost 150 billion euros have been put in place and for agriculture there is not 5 billion: 5 billion out of 150. I leave it to farmers and fishermen. That is why I will also be trivial and perhaps repetitive: you can look for trust in this House and perhaps you will also find it, but you will never find it outside the Palace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u162	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I too, like Senator La Pietra, feel uncomfortable speaking in general. But what are we discussing? We are talking about a draft budget law which here in the Senate is only discussed and voted purely pro-forma on the eve of its expiry, with the risk (unfortunately not so far in view of the problems that have arisen) of the provisional exercise, precisely in the context of the serious and dramatic crisis that we are experiencing. It is unheard of: a messy draft budget law, which needs a corrective decree-law to be settled. We're at the limit. [[Applause]] I enter into the merit of the provision to leave to the acts and not to be silent on your short-sighted choices, rather blind, compared to the whole maneuver, that never as at this moment should be decisive for the future of our country. It is not only us who say that, but also authoritative independent bodies, as well as professional associations. I quote, for example, the Parliamentary Budget Office, which in the report defines the maneuver - which, I recall, amounts to about 40 billion - a combination of measures aimed at different objectives that can be shared, but without a clear underlying budgetary policy plan. After a series of decrees that have followed since last spring that have only buffered the health and socio-economic effects of the pandemic, we would now have expected structural and concrete measures also in view of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. The budget law could and should have been the appropriate forum for this purpose, in line with the recovery plan. This is yet another missed appointment because to date, among other things, the plan is not yet defined; there are no clear ideas and the government and the majority continue to bicker in the dark arguing. With this budget law we are still faced with a shower of micro interventions, bonuses and incentives (sightglasses, cargo bikes, bonuses for chefs, the National Observatory for the enhancement of the intangible cultural heritage of UNESCO, a million for a series of funds such as anti-wear, experimental for experiential tourist training, for the fund for small museums). There are many individually plausible measures which, however, do not actually affect the sectors dedicated to them, which will not reach everyone and which will not affect the recovery of the economy. [[Applause]] Nothing effective has been done to date. I remember that Italian companies, against a loss of turnover of 13.5% compared to 2019 for Covid, had direct aid in support of only 7% of the fall in turnover of the entire Italian economic system. These are data from the CGIA of Mestre. It is too little to be able to define the intervention that is not decisive, but at least significant. In the maneuver there are interventions of greater breath. Some are acceptable, but still do not constitute a real backbone for the country's restart plan, starting with the major tax reductions to facilitate businesses and for those who create real jobs. [[Applause]] The measures contained in the decontribution measure for the recruitment of women and young people are very important, but if they are, as in this case, still limited to new recruitment, they do not affect the thousands of firms in difficulty which, on the other hand, still have to resort to the Cassa Integrazione. [[Applause]] Measures are also needed to support those who maintain jobs, for example. Decontribution, which is interesting for companies that are not in difficulty, is limited because it could have a greater impact if at the same time the famous decree of dignity, which in reality created very little of it, were abolished. [[Applause]] Now more than ever - it can no longer be postponed - there is a need to create greater flexibility in the world of work. [[Applause]] But, perhaps, you have not understood that once the social shock absorbers are finished - sooner or later they will end - and being unable to extend the block of layoffs will, unfortunately, burst the bomb and will have devastating effects. Then there are the measures in continuity with those already introduced by the decrees of May and August, which provide tax credits covering the tourism, publishing, agriculture and transport sectors. Also in this case there are few resources for the many sectors in crisis that include, instead, an articulated and complex chain also excluded from the previous interventions identified through the famous Ateco code. [[Applause]] The 110% ecobonus is a formula that could be successful not only to restart the construction sector, which in the last ten years, with the crisis, has seen more than 600,000 people lose, but for the whole country. The problem lies in its absolute complexity, in the regulation, in the multitude of tasks, certifications and costly acquittals. It is a measure with a series of practices also slowed down by smart working in the public administration and that would need a much longer time frame than was granted. [[Applause]] Support for the liquidity of businesses and the various funds - I am thinking of the one created for female entrepreneurship of only 20 million - also constitute, as always, many beautiful announcements, but little substance. [[Applause]] The overall tax reform, so announced by Count, is only announced and evidently postponed to the date to be allocated and why it is soon said. A fund with a budget of eight billion for 2022 and seven billion from 2023 is established: a share of this fund not less than five billion and not more than six billion will be allocated to universal allowance and family services. The accounts are soon made: very little will remain for a real reform of the tax, starting from the Irpef. [[Applause]] Or rather, what the government calls tax reform is currently very different from tax reform as intended and proposed by the center-right. And it is a reform, ours, which is now absolutely indispensable and indifferent for a recovery of the country, but we need resources. [[Applause]] This is why we need to have a far-sighted vision and make political choices that are not dictated by the immediate and the little, in order not to displease anyone, but in view of a common project for the country. Entrepreneurs, traders, VAT matches, self-employed and freelancers need help. It is not enough what has been done thanks to concrete proposals from Forza Italia. Confcommercio denounces precisely in these days that in 2020 will lower the shutters about 390,000 enterprises of the commerce and is a staggering data. And the prospect for traders, provided for in this budget law, is an increase in the contribution rate for 2022. Nice help. [[Applause]] The government does not want to distinguish between good incentives to support work and inefficient rain support. This government and the majority want to understand that the thousands of recruitments in the public - and I am not talking about doctors and nurses, but about stabilisation in public administration and recruitment at central state level - do not solve the problem of employment, but rather? Philosophy must be changed, because the philosophy of welfare, state and centralist, with which the decrees and measures adopted by this Government have been conceived in this legislature, will not lead to anything. [[Applause]] You have to change it right away.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u164	Conclude, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u165	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). The Italians - and I conclude - have already had enough of the pandemic and can no longer of your ideologies and your quarrels. They want solutions and concrete facts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u166	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u167	Mr President, yesterday Confcommercio gave us some pitiful data on the state of health of Italian companies: in 2020 390,000 companies will close, 85,000 have been opened and therefore the balance is highly negative; 305,000 companies will no longer be there. The closure of 200,000 professional studies is likely and the mortality rate of businesses from 2019 to 2020 has almost doubled, from 6.6 percent to 11.1 percent. We are here today, in a surreal climate, discussing the draft budget law which should be the identity card of a government. In this case it is, but it is an identity card that has very little identity, because those who make it the master are confusion and a way of putting together so many pieces in a ragazzonata way. Frankly, I don't know if this happens because of your inability, which we put back to the Italians to judge, but you certainly do not have a vision of our country. [[Applause]] It is surreal, because it is a budget maneuver that arrives here with a month's delay. It is surreal, because you have set another record: with this draft budget law, for the first time in the history of the Italian Republic, a branch of Parliament dismisses the budget law - hear, hear - on 27 December. And if you avoid the temporary exercise it is only because the opposition forces had a very high sense of responsibility in the face of your superficiality. [[Applause]] But it's not enough. A branch of Parliament has been crippled, there is no debate, there is the question of trust, but it is not enough. We come here and find out that the draft budget law has no financial cover. Please come down with your feet on planet Earth. You have announced at the mouth of the Deputy Minister that a budget law that has not yet been adopted will have to be corrected the following day. Stop. This is in the method, but let's go to some points. There's improvisation. I'm going for commercials. Everything was ready for the vaccines, supercommissary Arcuri had said that everything was ready and in the House the majority forces are forced to make an amendment that provides about 650 million euros to hire health personnel to perform the vaccines. It is a budgetary maneuver in which the income of citizenship, which has been a 360 degree failure, is still a pillar. What's the cherry on the cake? Not only did the income of citizenship not allow many Italians to find jobs, but it even ended up in the pockets of hardened thugs. [[Applause]] And you have the courage to propose it again. It is a budget maneuver that is based on bonuses or rather on tips, or rather, even more correct, on brands. The draft budget law is based on this, ranging from toilets to bidets. This is what the provision of our examination is about. But we want to be positive and optimistic because we are Italian to the end and we try to glimpse a light in this pitch darkness. Thanks to the League and the opposition forces, something has settled down in the House and we talk about it proudly. We can in fact boast that thanks to the League and the opposition forces, next year there will be the contributory white year for all self-employed. A white contributory year that looks at the new unattended, which are those who pay taxes with what they earn and not with the income of citizenship. [[Applause]] This as far as numbers are concerned, but let's also look at the positive values. Thanks to the League, the legalization of cannabis has not passed. We want to be ignorant, but we want to believe in life and not in the culture of death. [[Applause]] Two words about the Mezzogiorno and I speak as a man and mayor of the South. This plan that does not exist has nothing; this budget law for the South has done nothing and, on the contrary, has removed two billion euros on the decontribution of enterprises to the South, but allocating something for innovative schools: 300,000 euros. It's a shame. There is no design for the South, you do not have the courage to look at a different South, which represents the gateway of Italy to the Mediterranean. [[Applause.]] You are southern, like the southerners themselves who have troubleed the Mezzogiorno; when they arrived fine money through the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, through objective one. If there is no planning and there is no strategy, do not come and talk to us about percentages, we want real and real growth. [[Applause]] President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: We accept everything, we accept that we do not discuss it, we also accept that we talk about water and bidet instead of growth, development and problem solutions. However, have respect not for us, but for the Italians, saving us at least the theater they put on Renzi and Conte, with the appearance of Zingaretti. Renzi said yesterday that the government's plan is soulless. No, your plan doesn't exist, it's the government that's soulless and when a government has no soul, it'd be good to find another way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u168	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u169	Mr President, I shall try to leave the toilets and bidets for a moment and to raise the debate in this House. [[Applause. Comments]] There are many measures introduced in the budget bill for school, university, right to study and culture. Unfortunately, the limited time available does not allow me to list them all, but I invite you to go and look for them on the sites of the various ministries, because they are many and important. I use the few minutes at my disposal to draw the attention of all my colleagues to the recent investigation, titled "Fondo per la tutela del patrimonio culturale" (Fondo per la tutela del patrimonio culturale) carried out by the Court of Auditors, from which it emerges that the management of the measures for the protection and conservation of the public good has long been marked by an emerging logic and not by a virtuous circuit resulting from a multiannual programming. I think it is important to take note of the outcome of the Court of Auditors' inquiry, because we are talking about programming today. Thanks to this Government and the authority it has regained on the international tables, from the recovery fund will come a lot of money that will have to be invested for the relaunch. When we talk about protection, we also talk about relaunching and enhancing the professions that work for the protection of our huge and precious cultural heritage. [[Applause]] When we talk about enhancing the professions and removing them from the circuits of precariousness, we talk about relaunching work and implementing the work basin and of horizons for the many students who devote themselves to this type of study. When we talk about protecting and increasing investment - unfortunately, we must note that we are still standing at the stake of 0.9% - we are talking about protecting that intangible source of daily wealth that allows us to develop harmoniously, such as people and communities. In this way we can be proud in the world for the enormous beauty that we are called to guard, which is not only a right, but also a duty to the beauty that we have towards ourselves as a nation and also towards the global community that, through the UNESCO body, has recognized much of our wealth as a heritage of humanity. Therefore, the observatory that has been set up for UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage should well come, but we must also think about investing in protection. The next crisis will be social and then we will have the climate crisis and, also for this, we will have to preserve this beauty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u170	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are about to leave behind is a complex year, which will not forget the many families who have suffered unexpected losses, nor our young people who have been taken from them once and for all. We are fully aware that, with our commitment, we live in these places and feel the weight of important choices in this dramatic moment for our country. The pandemic triggered an unprecedented health crisis, which obviously affected the economy, creating a social emergency that involved millions of people. This period of extraordinary uncertainty has also revealed some weaknesses in our current model of development and has led to the rethinking of the system with a more evident direction of exchange of the country, starting from inequalities, from the iniquities between people and territories, up to the full consciousness of an idea of living and producing increasingly compatible with the ecological balance. Italy, together with the European Union, has demonstrated in recent months difficult to respond with pride and vision to the tremendous challenge that has arisen. Today, however, we are called to a greater responsibility, a collective and shared responsibility, that of guiding a new phase, starting reconstruction, achieving the conditions for a more just economy, a fairer society, an idea of sustainable and resilient development, giving the Italians firm points. This is the political point and this budget law represents an important step in a new path, with a view to a different balance, with a view to respecting the rights of the individual, the community and the environment, with a view to that transition not only economic, but also human, valuable; an economy of the common good, an economy that is not self-sufficient and autonomous, but a social discipline and that also looks at the ecological transition as an opportunity to create work. There are many interventions in the maneuver that address this vision and that embody the green transition of our country, considering sustainability as an indispensable condition to ensure growth and well-being. It extends to the whole 2022 an instrument of exceptional importance, the superbonus, a huge incentive to the energy efficiency of the national real estate that, thanks to this budget law, can be applied to new interventions. Among these, it is fundamental to eliminate - for example - architectural barriers. And, always in the matter of energy and urban regeneration, it is worth noting the refinancing of all the measures of energy redevelopment and recovery of the building heritage that, together with the extension of the green bonus and incentives for restoration interventions, will be able to give a great acceleration to the work of renewal of our villages, our suburbs and our cities. In addition to these two important measures: the new resources allocated to the experimental urban reforestation programme, already provided for in the climate decree, to encourage the creation of urban and peri-urban forests, and the establishment of the foundation for the future of cities, which will feed the idea of a development of the national production system consistent with the green transition of Italy. In this move towards a cleaner economy, we must involve industry and institutions with a comprehensive investment plan. It is important to point out two essential elements in the new budget law: the new funds dedicated to the decarbonisation and efficiency of the industrial sector, which will help that which has been so long awaited in terms of the production of polluting emissions, and then the increase of resources in favour of local authorities, which will serve to design and implement public works for the safety of buildings and the territory for road transport interventions and for the safety and development of public transport systems aimed at reducing environmental pollution in urban regeneration and energy conversion towards renewable sources. It is obvious that the budget law provides for so many important measures. We still have a complex time ahead of us, but we must have firm feet and a long head. An economic-financial maneuver is an act of intelligence that reads within the deep needs of the country; it chooses in the name of a rigor I would say more than cultural numerical, intervening in the difficulties and transforming them into occasions of growth. We have thus represented the preconditions for actions which, with courage and responsibility, look to the future by working for the stability of the present. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u172	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Senate is forced to ratify the armored maneuver without any possibility of change. Other than regret, President Pesco: this is serious, it is a humiliation for us senators. Inverse parts, it happened last year. Who did not touch the ball then was Montecitorio; two consecutive years with the same problem, which is not the Covid-19: the problem is the shaky Government Count! It's you! [[Applause]] Moreover, the Commission, the victim of feuds in the majority, presented to Parliament the 40 billion manoeuvre with a month's delay, compressing the work in Montecitorio and risking the provisional exercise; a very bad maneuver handed over to Parliament, with more than 30 articles taken out immediately, removed from the Budget Commission. I remember two, wretch. The first is on the establishment of the foundation on cybersecurity: a wrong rule in the method and bad on the merits, given the inopportunity to entrust private data security. The second is on the cancellation of the regionalization of hydroelectric concessions: yet another clumsy attempt, failed, of centralization wanted by the Democratic Party; a gift to the concessionaires and a serious erarial damage of about 10 billion for the territorial authorities. It is a maneuver that, after the work in the Chamber, has been heart attack of many micro bonuses, real waste of money, like the 20 million for the water bonus to replace taps and bidets, which will surely be burned with the roulette of the click day; the renewed and too many incentives for the purchase of electric cars: a tara, your one, of the electrification of mobility. It is a maneuver born without planning, but still improved by the center-right and the League, which has collected several results. Thanks to the determination of Mr Garavaglia, it has been obtained that the 800 million available to Parliament were added to 3.8 billion provided for by the "fundone" Conte, which the Premier with several decrees wanted to divide. So, with a billion, we have guaranteed the contributory white year for self-employed and professionals with a drop in turnover. In addition, 224 million were allocated to refinance the expansion contract for companies over 250 employees, introduced with the League to the Government. Another great satisfaction is the stop to the grill amendment on cannabis light. Drugs, colleagues, hurt and must be countered, not legalized! [[Applause]] The maneuver was a missed opportunity to cancel or extend the plastic tax. It is incredible how, after the irreplaceable uses that have been used with the plastic devices in emergency Covid-19, you insist on penalising it, thus blocking the Italian production sector. On the superbonus, then, we intervened again with the norm introduced with the decree I throw again, with the famous article 119: the fourth time in seven months. However, the expectations of companies and technicians who called for a wider extension were disappointed. Thus, there are more and more citizens who, deluded by the free home, have already renounced their intervention with the announcement policy launched by the Giallorossi Government. On the ristori decree, you of the Movimento 5 Stars have also threatened the Allies of the Democratic Party to reach 2023. But, after a week of pulling and pulling, you had to sketch, give up the twenty-four months and settle for a 6+6: a proroghina of six months has come out to 30 June 2022 plus another six months, but only for the condominiums if, at that date, 60% of the works will be realized. Therefore, it is far from a full extension to 2022; also because the second six months were not granted to single-family buildings, terraced houses and other categories of beneficiaries. On the superbonus one thing is clear now, seeing the changes made and also reading the draft of the PNRR: the extension of the audience of the beneficiaries will not be done, neither now nor ever. Goodbye, then, to 110 percent for sheds and industrial workshops; there will be nothing for hotel facilities and nothing for peer schools. Dear colleagues, the limit of this measure is being revealed which, announced in a pump, has so far achieved only one result, but in negative: it has slowed down the redevelopment of the real estate. [[Applause]] In addition to the juniper between primary rules, ministerial and circular decrees of the Revenue Agency, interpretative doubts remain. Many are the risks for beneficiaries and technicians who, the more they know the measure, the more they avoid it, aware that the superbonus, from great opportunity, risks becoming a dangerous trap. And then there is the excessive cost of the measure, unsustainable for the coffers of the state; if you evaluate the cost-benefit ratio, we would discover surprises. In short, the measure has already routed to a dead track and will have no future. I shall start with the conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that, alongside the health tragedy, the scourge of poverty and economic and social disaster, which cannot be dealt with with with welfare benefits, with the immoral income of citizenship, or by blocking dismissals and evictions, without giving any compensation to the owners. Locked instead, and immediately, the 30 million billboards ready from January 1, that will create a carnage between the enterprises and an unprecedented social confrontation. [[Applause]] We are in the middle of a social pandemic and you of the majority should have the responsibility to make careful choices, such as cutting taxes and investments capable of creating development and employment, instead of making irresponsible choices like those you are taking, wasting the resources of the most authorized public debt or those of the recovery plan, which - I remember - are loans that the next generations will have to repay. Moved by blind environmentalism and neglecting the negative impact on our businesses, you support the new cut in CO2 decided by the EU, wasting resources, without the principle of technological neutrality, in investments that are paradoxically at risk of harming the environment without economic and social sustainability. [[Applause]] Finance the electric car and the Chinese scooters, without evaluating the impact of the carbon footprint that this creates. Aim at 100% of renewables, which are careless of the fact that they are not programmable and therefore, to ensure the security of the energy system, we will have to resort to expensive backup systems, which impact on the bills, or to inefficient processes of producing electricity from hydrogen, perhaps the very expensive green one, the only one you would like to support. Instead of the development of the country, under the banner of a limitless environmental delirium, you are trying - and it has been seen in the draft of the extension terms - to give the mortal blow to the gas sector of our country, including the Val d'Agri and Tempa Rossa in Basilicata, bringing even more misery to Italy, condemning it to depend energy for 100 percent from abroad. On waste management, characterized in the South Centre by a shortage of facilities, you wrote in the PNRR draft that you only want to invest in new TMB plants, which are the emblem of the failure of the management of the Monezza di Roma and Lazio: it is madness. Gentlemen of the majority, note that you are supporting a very fragile and visionless government for the country, unfit to face a crisis, perhaps the heaviest even among those that happened in the 20th century. On the draft of PNRR Italia Viva states that you grabbed without soul; the recovery plan cannot be the ground of confrontation on the shoulders of the Italians. You're smashed in the direction booth. You are smashed on the plans, which - I remember - must be songs. You're busted on the TAV. Please do a gesture of humility, for the good of the country: resign and go home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u174	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u175	Mr President, unfortunately, with the habit of trusting all the measures, there is no possibility of tabling amendments, agendas or proposals, even when they are of common sense; they apply to all of us, and they also apply to us as Brothers of Italy. The common sense amendments we had tabled were numerous, and today I would like to mention only two, and then ask the Government perhaps to follow up them with its own measures. With an amendment to my signature, Brothers of Italy presented the request to increase the fund for the purchase and dissemination of anti-Covid vaccines, in order to be able to allocate them also to Italians residing abroad, who are in countries where it will not be possible to spread the same vaccines extensively. As we know, the Italians living abroad are more than 5,200,000; many live in Europe and the United States, that is, in countries where we hope they will not have vaccination problems, but others live in countries where this is likely to be complicated: I think of many of our fellow countrymen in Venezuela, Peru or in general in South America, or in Africa (there are many - for example - Italians living in Kenya). We therefore called for the fund to be increased in order to give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, in agreement with our diplomatic representations and heard from the Comites, the opportunity to ensure vaccination to our Italian communities abroad, where they had difficulty doing so. I ask the Government not to trash this proposal of Brothers of Italy, to own it, perhaps with a decree-law, so that it can immediately make it operational and not forget the Italians living abroad. A second common sense amendment, which we have actually tabled over and over again in connection with other measures, proposes the elimination of the minimum INPS contribution for craftsmen and traders. I realize that this is not an easy subject for those who devote their time to anything else. But if someone wanted to find out about it for once, they would see that this is nonsense, a senseless scandal. It is currently expected that craftsmen and traders, regardless of their actual income in the year, will have to pay at least € 3,850 to the INPS cashiers. If they have zero turnover, they have to pay just as 3,850 euros: this doesn't make any sense, so much so that there is no minimum contribution for employees and not even for members of the separate management of the INPS. Therefore, the VAT number entered in the separate management does not have a minimum contribution: if you invoice zero, you pay zero; if you invoice little, you pay little. At the INPS there is the social security fund craftsmen and traders, and therefore there is the minimum contribution. We have therefore asked for the two cases to be treated equally. We have asked in general, but at least we do so in this dramatic phase, in which our craftsmen and our traders are on their knees. Some may object that the minimum contribution is necessary to avoid excessive facilitation of access to retirement, but that is not the case, because this could have been the case in the pay system. On the other hand, depending on how much you pay, there is an increase in the amount of contributions which determines the amount of the pension. As regards the right to a pension, i.e. the years of seniority, it is already provided for in the INPS separate management fund, on the basis of the payment during the year, whether or not it is possible to have full seniority of the year. Again, there is a minimum calculation of 15,500 euros per year of income, which ensures a full year of contribution. If you declare yourself less, you will pay less, but you will have less than a year of seniority. So we're not giving anything to anyone, we're not asking for a favor for craftsmen and traders, but we're proposing to enforce for them the same principle that applies to a VAT number that is not a craftsman or a trader. It sounds like a common sense thing, but you said no, and I'm sorry because you didn't even understand: I realize that these are complex arguments that the current Government has difficulty understanding. I also suspect that it is a deliberate hostility towards artisans and traders, since they are systematically painted as thieves, evaders, scammers, people who first close and the better. So let us ensure that, even if it is a proposal of common sense, we do not approve of it. Why does this suspicion become a little more concrete? Brothers of Italy had submitted a request for generalized social shock absorbers, at least for 2021, also to VAT consignments. The Government accepted in theory the amendment of Brothers of Italy, but reduced it to the discount version, i.e. the scam version in which, among the various absurdities that I do not now have time to list, artisans and traders were excluded. Therefore, in access to new forms of social shock absorbers for VAT consignments, it is said yes to VAT entered in the separate management, while not to the craftsman and trader, because they must remain as they are. (at 7.20 p.m.) (Fazzular follow-up). It keeps the minimum contribution - it has not been removed - and neither is the social shock absorber given to it; the enterprises continue to remain on their knees and so we face a desertification of the productive fabric, with millions of artisans and traders who will close their activities and find themselves on the street, perhaps because they have the dignity of not wanting to live with the income of citizenship. Yet, these people, for the most left-wing government in the history of humanity, are enemies to strike. This is not what we think and, therefore, Brothers of Italy will continue to fight in every place to defend the artisans, traders and the people of VAT matches, systematically affected by this Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u176	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u177	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, before speaking of economic and financial maneuver, allow me to make some procedural and time-frame considerations which, in a system like ours, that of perfect bicameralism are not merely details but substance of institutional choices that were made many years ago by our constituent Fathers. If we take into account the timing of this budget law, let us remember that on 18 October it was approved by the Council of Ministers, unless otherwise agreed, and then come back a month later, on 16 November, again to the Council of Ministers for final approval; therefore one more month, one more month, one more month than the time limits laid down in the Regulations: by 20 October each year, financial maneuver must arrive at a branch of Parliament. I repeat, therefore, that with a month's delay the maneuver has arrived at the House of Deputies, and all the work has been concentrated in that branch of Parliament. The Senate today, 29 December, finds itself examining a text that just two days ago was launched by the Chamber of Deputies, two days after 31 December, fateful date for not going into provisional exercise. [[Applause]] So we find ourselves on a winding road, on a difficult path. In fact - we can absolutely say this - the Senate today ratifies a measure that has only been approved by the other branch of Parliament. If I have not missed something in this Parliament, I believe that a constitutional reform that overcomes the perfect bicameralism has not yet been approved in our Parliament. [[Applause]] Yet, it is happening that the constitutional prerogatives of the Senate today are so compressed as to avoid any political confrontation on a fundamental act, because we remember that the financial maneuver is the political act par excellence of the Government. In this regard, I am reminded of an episode that always happened here almost two years ago, the protagonist of which was the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party: then, precisely on the tight times of the economic maneuver, raised a conflict of attribution to the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, at the time the Democratic Party was party to opposition and therefore opposed the methods of compressing parliamentary debate. On the other hand, this time he is a government party and therefore makes it a modus operandi. [[Applause]] Congratulations on the consistency of the Democratic Party. We are witnessing - as we said - an alternate monocameralism and in this case too it is right to remind the champions of the guarantee of the correct alternation that unfortunately in this moment of alternation they have the opportunism and the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Stars uses monocameralism exclusively for its own mere opportunism. With this in mind, we come to examine the budgetary manoeuvre in some of its important and fundamental aspects. The maneuver to our examination is worth 37.9 billion in 2021, of which 24.6 in deficit. In my reasoning, I would like to start from the cornerstones of the proposals that have been put forward by the Forza Italia Parliamentary Group in all these months and in recent weeks: we have proposed investments for structural reforms, direct aid to businesses, professionals, craftsmen, trade and VAT consignments. We have also called for less bureaucracy and, therefore, a zero bureaucracy plan. On the other hand, today - this is my assessment of the maneuver - we find at the four key items of the measure the following: growth and investment only 2.9 out of 38 billion in value of the maneuver - under the heading liquidity and capitalization of companies we find 1.3 billion; in transport and mobility, which at this time are also fundamental for the social distance and the limitation of contagion, only 300 million euros, of which 100 go to renew the mobility bonus. Finally we come to the chapter of the chapters: the revision of public expenditure, the spending review so dear to a parliamentary group in this House, for which we find zero in 2021 and zero in 2022. [[Applause]] They forgot the promises made to the Italians and the fact that they had to open Parliament up like a can of tuna. Today it is enough to read only these four voices to say that the budgetary manoeuvre in our examination is inadequate in relation to the times and economic crisis we are experiencing. Once again, in fact, this maneuver is an act that hardly chases the emergency, does not draw a strategy for the future, for the restart of our country. Once again, we are witnessing a measure that builds its pillars on certain issues that some political groups consider essential - pillars that are again aid, assistance and public stabilisation - and absolutely does not lay the foundation for an economic recovery based on investment, initiative and support for private economic initiative and above all on what the country needs, namely a tax reform. [[Applause]] For the restart, we know very well that from the middle of next year, 2021, the substantial economic resources that will come from the Next Generation EU programme, on which so far there has been no real comparison in Parliament, will be available. Parliament must contribute to the direction and control of these projects, which must be shared with the oppositions, the social partners and the intermediate bodies, because the money that will come is and there are so many, but we must remember that a large part of them is in debt and will affect our citizens, the population and future generations. [[Applause]] So we must be an integral part of the debate on those funds today. The Confcommercio, in these hours - we have said it in many in this House - has declared death 390,000 companies in Italy, so we must absolutely use all the resources that Europe makes available. Dear friends of the majority, no more hesitations. Say a key word about the funds that are available, the funds of the Health MES, the Sure funds, the EIB, the funds to be used for investments. Stop twitching. Although some proposals by Forza Italia have been taken into consideration, we say yes to the Italians once again, but let us say no, once again, to this Government because we absolutely do not agree with either the premises or the methods of carrying out political action. In conclusion, I would like to appeal to the Government. These days important issues are also being decided and, since we can do very little, unfortunately, on the financial maneuver, I call on the Government to take seriously what is happening on the issue of deteriorated loans. [[Applause.]] It is important that the Government intervenes at this decisive moment. We need to put pressure - we know this is a European matter - on the European Commission to avoid the failure of so many families and businesses in our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u178	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u179	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to remind you of the course of this draft budget law, which was presented to Parliament one month late - it was 18 November - after the coloured drafts had been shot for a month, without any value, however. There were 229 articles, already with a connotation of pulverization of the interventions. After a few days, the President of the Budget Committee in the House had already removed some thirty measures which had nothing to do with the budget, either because they were legal or, worse, because they were particularistic and localistic. Without modesty, some of those articles had managed to fall back from the window into the decree-laws restori. But we're used to pirouettes like that now. This shows that the action of the current Government is confused, with a parcelling of the provisions and without a vision, and I will never tire of telling you. [[Applause]] This way of acting is harmful to the country. Do you realize that? You arrived on December 27th to vote at first reading the budget law in the House, passed quickly and fury at the Senate. We did not have the material time to look at it briefly, except in any case to realize that, probably, precisely because of the haste, the budget law is spoiled by errors of coverage on a single measure and must already be corrected. This gives the measure of the inadequacy of this Government and of the majority supporting it. Yes, because the majority needed the cooperation of minorities, and certainly not because we like the maneuver: we simply wanted to avoid dragging our country to the provisional exercise. Italy and the Italians do not deserve it, especially at a time of such a serious crisis. And the Commission's inadequacy can be seen from the beginning of the crisis, from the many contradictions. This is the Bonus Government, the Tax Credit Government. But isn't it easier not to charge for the activities in crisis taxes, contributions and everything that spoils the productive activity of our country? Even the single household allowance could have been a help: you have turned it into a charity to families, with insufficient resources so much that the President of Istat confirmed at the hearing that, with this measure, one in three families will take less than they take with family allowances today. [[Applause]] The League has been unheard since March, in alternate phases, to the Chamber or Senate, depending on where the order was presented. On this maneuver, I have to admit that the League, in the Budget Committee in the House, has done an excellent job. Yes, because the President of the Count Council, with the original Article 207, had set up a 3.8 billion fund for its DPCMs. Fortunately, in this case, the League was heard and those resources were allocated to the parliamentary initiative. Therefore, League and minority have managed to achieve improvements, especially in favour of autonomous and VAT matches. On the other hand, VAT and the self-employed are the ones who, objectively, are suffering the most and are the most fragile at the moment. I am referring, therefore, to the contribution year for self-employed and professionals with a turnover of less than EUR 50,000 in 2019 and who have suffered a decrease in turnover of more than 33% (it was an amendment by Mr Garavaglia). (at 19.37) (Ferrero followed). I am talking about VAT on take-out foods, which is expected to be 22% and increased to 10%, as for the table service that we all know today is in serious crisis; I am talking about the very important extension of the duration of the loans provided by the liquidity decree-law: I am referring to those loans from 25,000 euros, then raised to 30,000 euros, which were to be repaid in six years but with an amendment by the League that time frame was extended to fifteen years. I am also talking about the extension of the sugar tax, with a first-signed amendment by Mr Comaroli, and many other important measures approved by the House. These are just examples that have tried to bring some common sense to this maneuver, but the system remains rather disappointing, lacking a minimum of planning and disintegrating, made in haste. Don't tell us the story of the Covid emergency, because the time to destroy the security decree-laws you found it in full economic emergency, when you should have thought exclusively of the budget session. [[Applause]] Starting with the conclusion, I recall that the last excerpt of paragraphs from the Accounting Office risked causing the entire maneuvering system and the majority themselves to be in crisis. Here again the attitude of the minority was responsible, avoiding the worst for the country. Do you remember in December 2018 the tomes that flew to the Senate? It was the second reading and then obviously we lost the habit, because last year, if you remember, there was no Covid, but you were late anyway: there was only one reading with an amendment phase in the Senate. Finally, today we have the epilogue, with the Senate transformed into a demeaning letterhead; a great work of the offices of the Senate Budget Service (which in this case I thank) has been cleared with less than an hour of examination in the Commission; we have therefore reported the errors I have already mentioned, which should have been corrected in the Senate, but lacks time. We weren't allowed to do that. This government is inadequate and, in particular, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Gualtieri, who is the first person responsible for this disaster, who is never seen in the Chamber and who is ready to promote, in the near future, a further budgetary deviation. I will conclude with a word for Deputy Minister Misiani, of which I think: tell his Minister that the best economic choice he could make would be to step aside. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u180	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u181	Mr President, we should discuss and discuss the draft budget law, a measure of 39 billion, of which 24.6 million are financed in deficit. My colleagues from the Brothers of Italy have all spoken; it is no coincidence that we have spoken and we all want to be present in this House to denounce the technically and politically incorrect approach of this draft budget law. In just a few minutes it would be misleading to return to the topics already carried out by my colleagues point by point, voice by voice, on how you have favored a short-sighted vision, absolutely full of marchettes and instead without a development plan that is necessary, especially in a dramatic situation such as the current one. There is one point, however, that I would like to take up again, and that is what concerns the National Vaccine Plan, or more generally the issue of vaccines. You've all seen on television, on unified networks, the big event: 9,750 doses of vaccine have arrived. They did it! That's less than 10,000 doses. You think that Denmark, which has six million inhabitants, little more than Sicily, has had 40,000. However, we entrust ourselves to the European Union and not to the United Kingdom, which has done so alone and have condemned it in every way for wanting to do so alone, starting, first and foremost, the whole procedure for obtaining vaccines. We are with the European Union and have 9,000 doses. More had to come, but because it snowed the doses can't come! We are in the Middle Ages: there is a little snow and the vaccine plan stops. Imagine what will happen when we have to do it to 40 million Italians! That's not the point, though. While we adhere strictly to the European rules, Mrs Merkel - who is good for her country and in the face of which I bow for her capacity - has negotiated, in addition to those that are his responsibility from the European distribution, privately, on her own, 30,000 more doses immediately. As usual, we're the last wheel in the wagon. President, we are faced with shameful propaganda for 9,000 doses. All the televisions were ready to resume these doses and then it turns out that the workers don't even want to vaccinate. [[Applause]] We are really in a phase of total untangling and then the opposition is asked to make propaganda. We're gonna make propaganda for everyone to take their shots, but I advised the melons to do it by separating his face from that of the others to take on their responsibilities. [[Applause]] It's too convenient to want our faces, our help when you decide everything yourself, like with this financial. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to know whether this vaccination plan is already in place. If I am not mistaken, in the budget law there is talk of 400 million already allocated to the vaccination plan and it is said that the guidelines will be given for the plans that each individual region will develop. Can any of you give us a phone number that we can ask where this National Vaccine Plan is? Can any of you give us a name and a last name, against the statement we will give the vaccine to everyone free of charge? Where is the person, the body, the group, one of the millions of your experts who can give us the directives on this vaccination plan, since on television it seems that the vaccine is now available to almost everyone? President, we have no news of this. If you have it, let us know; we are waiting. In financial terms, however, we have discovered many small things. The bulk of the figures have already told you where it is allocated. We've discovered the marquettines. There are so many of them, I find it hard to remember them all. [[Applause]] Let me tell you one: 11 million for the study of plants, to find out how they can improve the environment. I told him for free: the more there is, the better the environment. 11 million are expected to study plants, as if it were something to be discovered. There are many more. Of course, there are several million for scooters. Here comes the snow, but the scooters remain, as you can see, for example, in Milan these days, the privileged means of transport, perhaps closing Corso Buenos Aires and ensuring that there is an endless tail with lanes reserved for scooters and bicycles completely empty. We, however, have put the money into it. Your "we" of Italy, us of the Government and us of the majority is for us: you of the Government and you of the majority. We have nothing to do with this and with all the other brands (because they are called so) that you have done. I could read one behind the other: for example, the trade union patrons (this is not a brand, but something more) had already been given 20 million euros; they give him another 15, if it were never for the unions to get angry and maybe indicate a strike or something like that, because they would be capable. So, another 15 million and maybe citizenship income. But why not extend it until you are no longer in the government? For another nine years or I don't know how many years you've extended it. What's the point? Just write: 4 billion for citizenship income. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for calling me back, because it remains the last subject to be addressed. All we're talking about is a fiction, because this majority and this government, who present this budget law to us, in the room next door are arguing and arguing, deciding whether to continue to be together. And to be together, they have to share the loot better. Well, yes, the loot, because you won't tell me that the subject you're discussing is different. Do you know how the Democratic Party responds? He tells you to be careful, because if this government falls, you go to vote and it is not a call to democracy, but a threat to those who, in order not to go to vote, are ready to say yes to any proposal. An act of democracy becomes an act of threat. By now, if you want to threaten some parliamentarians of the majority, of all the majority parties, and make them bow their heads, it's very easy. Just tell him: either vote like this, or we have the Italians vote. Poor Italian democracy, poor Italy! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u182	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to tell you a story that defines unreasonable is little: it is the incredible story of an amendment that has been opposed and tortured for a long time, the one required by the decision of the Cassation in order to better fix the law 2 December 2016, n. 242, in force since 2017, that concerns the industrial hemp chain. Now I don't want to talk about drugs, but I just want to clarify one point, so that we don't stop talking about it. In any botany book you will find that cannabis is a single plant with different variations, some of which have "drug" effects, as the judges of the Court of Cassation have defined with a little forced Italian, and have amazing effects; the other types without drug effects, therefore without narcotic or psychotropic effects, are better known by us for a long time as hemp, but it is the same plant and is not a drug. Hemp, used since 8,000 B.C., is not a drug. (at 7.50 p.m.) (Following AIROLA). The industrial supply chain of hemp (since there was talk of companies that can close, having been rejected this amendment, add these 3,000 companies to the novero also) gives work to 12,000 families and brings to the treasury about a billion: which is not a small thing. No drugs are produced, but using hemp for centuries (marcites and fields spread from North to South), we learned to get from its bark strings, yarns, clothes, non-polluting plastic fibers, fuel, natural fertilizers and paper, without breaking down forests. From the stem, properly treated, we have obtained building material, insulating panels to make the houses healthier and with greater energy saving; the famous green economy - thought - anticipated and promoted even during the Fascist 20 years. So I find that I don't want to talk about drugs, but I want to talk about hemp, the story of this rejected amendment is the central point. The first time this is happening is when it is considered inadmissible in this House in December last year. Ignorance on the subject is such that we are told to make a law.It is a pity that the law exists and the amendment is precisely to the law that already exists. Mr President, on 16 October 2020 a very serious event took place, which must be emphasized; an executive of the Central Office of drugs, whose name I also know, but we lay a pitiful veil, violating the process that every rule follows, in an unacceptable way - and this is proved - bypassing the scrutiny of the Ministers involved, he put on the desk of Minister Speranza a little leaf, a "decreet" in which hemp was put in the table relating to drugs. A contra legem bomb that would suddenly turn the entire production sector into a criminal sector. So, we should ask ourselves if apart from the government there is anyone else who legislates, maybe those put in certain agencies by previous governments. The news explodes by panicking everyone and suspending the decree. It creates a working table, which still has to bear fruit. The operation is important, above all discovered the bad faith of the ministerial manager and the inadequacy of the Italian Agency of the drug (AIFA), which, during an institutional meeting, to the request to obtain the list of their studies in possession and the scientific bibliography related to cannabis, responded only with mumbled stutters. The last act of this tragic affair is amendment 168.03 which arrives in the Budget Committee to the House with negative opinion of the Minister of Health. Unbelievable. Sileri and the promoters of the amendment try to give counter-deductions, but nothing, the Ministry is silent; it is incomprehensible. I therefore wonder why this obstinacy to not properly regulate with a micro effort a sector that could grow exponentially, recovering land, agriculture, businesses, commerce and a huge volume of business and employment. I don't know what the answer is. Perhaps because it would put in crisis multinational, oil tycoons, plastic production and plastic tax, poisonous derivatives from hydrocarbons. The failure to realize this dream of green rebirth is really a shame because it would be a healthy supply chain and would produce well-being and culture. I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting two lines that I have received in this House, shouted out by the oppositions. When I said that I still had my great-grandmother's tablecloths spun in hemp, I received a scream from the opposition benches: "Smoke them!" This is hemp, isn't it? Smoke them, then try to reason with us, because in a Parliament we talk, I finally got the admission that that hemp was not drugs. The answer was "Yes," but only drug addicts grow it. Obviously someone in this Parliament, apart from hemp, does not even care about culture. [[Applause.]] I just want to say thank you for the effort made to try to solve this age-old problem to Members of Parliament Sodano, Sarli, the granitic Matteo Mantero, the Senate and all the colleagues who have worked on the subject for the good of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u184	They tell me that if we keep to the times, we can avoid the next sanitization of an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u185	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u186	Mr President, we are aware that this bill represents a financial maneuver almost in good time, in times of war, given the very difficult pandemic context we are experiencing. In this sense, our Group also knows very well that, although we consider the fact that we cannot make any changes to the text of the House, the spectre of a provisional exercise of the State during this crisis, confronts us with a choice of responsibility towards the country. With reference to the needs of our Alpine communities, in particular the Valle d'Aosta, which I represent, I would have liked to raise issues to improve this financial manoeuvre. I am thinking, for example, of the enhancement of the hydroelectric sector and, in particular, of the Valdostan Water Company (CVA), proposing the exclusion of the latter from the application of the so-called Madia law, in order to allow a manoeuvrability on the market. I am thinking, similarly, of the disapplication of the same Law Madia to cableway installations with public participation, in order to save their fate in this serious crisis, the strengthening of our railway network and the proposal to re-evaluate the ambitious project of Turin-Aosta-Martigny-Lausanne, that would give an international breath to the entire Country and the possibility of a real modernization of our railway axis. I am also thinking of the solution of the problems with regard to the maintenance of the tunnels of Gran San Bernardo and Mont Blanc; the improvement of the functioning in agriculture of Agena compared to the payments to our farms; the interventions to raise trade, tourism, crafts and VAT consignments from tax obligations at this difficult time; measures to support school, university and health. Moreover, my hope is that the expected discount for the Special Statute reasons (for Valle D'Aosta 3,2 million euros in 2021) on the sharing in the recovery of the state will be revised in increase during the year. I remember that in 2020 it was 84 million. I would like to thank Mr Misiani, who has worked in this direction. I would like to stress how bad it has been for me to hear in recent weeks authoritative politicians and national newspapers consider the world of winter sports as mere entertainment, or - worse still - to be reprimanded for not thinking enough about our dead and sick. I'm outraged. We Valdostans are an example of how we take care of our elders and those who are not self-sufficient. The whole winter tourism sector is one of the pillars of our economy and livelihood for thousands of families. The delay of a month, alas, with which the Scientific Technical Committee responded to the draft health protocol of the Regions on the recovery of winter sports shows a further lack of respect. Therefore, Mr President, as Senator of the Valle D'Aosta and representative of the high mountain, I am calling for more cooperation and loyalty; that loyalty that the Valle d'Aosta has had in recent years, guaranteeing the State a contribution to the recovery of public finance much higher (due to the application of the Siope method, which we have always contested) than our economic possibilities. In this period, when we have to move with a difficult balance between health protection and the right to work, from mountain people with slow and constant pace we still go forward with dignity, as we have always done over the centuries, making our battles and advancing our demands in the next steps that will come. However, honestly, we ask for more respect and consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u187	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u188	Mr President, I will speak briefly and ask the Presidency for permission to hand over the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u189	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u190	Beginnings (IV-PSI). This draft budget law is full of measures that pay attention to the environment, starting with the strengthening of the superbonus for the energy redevelopment of buildings. I do not mention the various measures that have been renewed or introduced, but I would like to mention the establishment of the Water Savings Fund, which has a budget of EUR 20 million for 2021. This water bonus is a measure that Italy Viva has supported and that had already proposed in the context of the last financial maneuver and the so-called relaunch decree. We are therefore pleased that it has now been accepted. I do not dwell on the aims, which other colleagues have already touched on, and how the bonus can be used, but I would like to point out that this measure is part of a broader vision of the sustainability and saving of raw materials. Alongside the important measure of the superbonus for the energy efficiency of the real estate, water efficiency is the other indispensable piece. In any sector, interpreting the European green new deal is a step that must see the state engaged, but also the country's production system, representing this challenge also an extraordinary opportunity. Every European citizen is called to play his part, and in this respect it is an exponential contribution that entrepreneurs can make to the environment through the application of research into their products. Especially because of this complicated year that is about to end, important opportunities can be seized to safeguard the resources of our planet. The companies of our country are third in the world for the production of taps, so the opportunity that is given to citizens with the bonus is also offered to our companies, that thanks to the research and technology applied they will be able to offer important systems for a saving water that will give the environment remarkable results. Then I want to make a mention as a former mayor of the measures introduced for the municipalities. In addition to the renewal of certain accounting measures, as well as the possibility of still using administrative surplus for the financing of current expenditure, there is also the strengthening of a number of funds, starting from the municipal solidarity fund. I believe that mayors are never told enough thanks for the work they have done: they are the first line, the front office of the State and whatever measures we adopt, whatever intervention we do, in the end it is almost always to them that citizens turn to have explanations, to be able to access the measures ourselves that we offer. I believe that this is also an opportunity to say thank you for the commitment that has seen them protagonists in spite of this very difficult year. I believe that as a Parliament we could really seize the opportunity to find a way of saying a heartfelt and important thank you to their commitment in this special year. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that Italy Viva has contributed with its own amendments and internal confrontation with the majority and with the opposition to improve the maneuver. We are therefore satisfied with the overall layout of the budget law and the measures contained therein. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u191	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u192	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u193	If you wish, Senator Iannone, you may deposit the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u194	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u195	Mr President, to begin with, I would like to borrow the authoritative statement of a Member of this House. Start of citation: We are in the hands of a gang of incompetent cowards, who first prevent the Senate from discussing the budget law and then sprinkle the head of ashes. It was on 29 December 2018, exactly two years ago today, and my colleague was Andrea Marcucci, the President of my parliamentary group, and the reference was to a way that is exactly what is being repeated in this House today, namely the choice to compress the parliamentary debate to such an extent that it would not allow this branch of Parliament to open, discuss, amend and amend the budget law. Faced with that choice, we appealed to the Constitutional Court. Look, colleagues - I tell my colleague Romeo - this was not the first time. This isn't the first time. What is happening in this House today happened two years ago. The problem is not to open up a controversy, let alone with colleagues of the Democratic Party or of Italy Viva or of the current majority, or even to have elements of attack on choices. I would just like to ask a very serious and inescapable question, which concerns us all, linked to emptying, which I would call demeaning, of parliamentary activity in a democracy that is already fragile and compromised like ours. I'm afraid we're all underestimating what's happening. It is not my job to judge the change of mind in the face of the same behavior depending on who performs those behaviors. As it is not my job to judge who today, by the majority, denounces justice and welfare, after allowing this government to put them in place. Today we find out that there is the justiceist drift, but the prescription could be stopped by this government. We find that the income of citizenship is a disastrous measure (not my words, but of members of this majority), but it has not been modified in this budget law. You could have stopped Senator Lezzi's amendment on Ilva, but you didn't. Today I see, with great interest, launching ultimatums on the use of the ESM, which has been available since June. It is right to have your own time to mature ultimatum, but it is available from June and we are in December. Therefore, since it is not my intention to make an intervention on the controversy, I want to take up the words with which Michele Ainis, who studies and knows the Constitution perhaps better than I did, denounced and described this budget law: A coacervo of measurements without drawing, from the bonus taps to the financing of a master's degree in thermal medicine; laced with rules disconnected from each other, in an arcane language, changing like the moods of a child. More Ainis: Because in the name of the emergency health every established authority dispenses its edicts far and wide, without ever taking care of the overall picture. Because this hemorrhaging of norms and decrees mostly flows outside the established procedures, hurting the sense of legality, if not even common sense. More Ainis: Senators will have to vote with closed eyes on this law, otherwise it would open the provisional budget year. However, the latter - the provisional exercise - is still a possibility regulated by the Constitution, while the seizure of the Senate is not, that is not foreseen. In no way shall the confiscation of the powers of the Head of State be authorised. 20,08 p.m. (Follow RICHETTI). I hope that you will read these words, not as an element of controversy, but as a problem that concerns all of us about the institutions that we deliver to the future of this country. Then there is the merit, and here I want to address, with respect, also to the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, bearers of a way of making politics (at least these were the intentions) outside of tips, exchanges and mutual conveniences. But does it seem possible to bring such a logic of exchange and tips to the surface, as is done on this occasion? I do not want to use other terms, Mr President, because I do not use words that are not appropriate to this House. From this point of view, here too, so that I do not use my words, I want to use those of Sabino Cassese today. Start of citation: "Even the Minister of Economy and Finance has acknowledged that these are too specific and sector-specific expenditures. The authors were obviously not afraid of ridicule. Dozens of bestowals and tips. The establishment of many funds. The forecast of financing up to 2036, thus fragmenting the budget, tightening it up. These are numerous periods, which contain six or more references to other laws. According to one custom, there were resources allocated to parliamentary management, those used by governments to silence the most critical voices of oppositions. Still Cassese: "Now, the dialogue Government and opposition is useful, indeed necessary, but not if it takes place to the detriment of the country, which pays the cost". Mr President, I think we have missed an opportunity. There were 800 million, which have become even more; we should have taken what we all stress in public statements and initiatives, the emergency and the shortage of health workers and doctors, and made a strong choice as a Parliament. We know that doctors are missing and will be missing in the next few years; to definitively overcome the training funnel, that is those 9,000 graduates who every year in medicine do not have access to the specialization, it costs 234 million euros per year for five years (other than 800). We could guarantee the Italians a health service that was up to speed, and instead we guaranteed them the bonuses for taps and toilets. Now we are waiting for a New Year's Eve of truce; then, as happened for Christmas, you will come back to propose to the Italians this unbecoming spectacle of the crisis that is not a crisis, of a verification that never ends, of a reshuffle that nobody wants, but without which we do not continue. I do not know if the trust in this Government is exhausted; I know that the dignity of this Government is exhausted. And don't think that the lack of actions can compensate you with the proliferation of definitions. It is of no use to define ourselves as the party of the Constitution in words if we are complicit in the demeaning of the Charter. It is of no use to define itself as the labor party, if the only thing that is strengthened is an instrument with devastating effects such as the income of citizenship. Together with Carlo Calenda we have created Action precisely for this: a tenacious and coherent work, that does not yield to the ease of statements that cost nothing, in the face of gestures that produce the opposite, because this is the time of the turning point, a real turning point. The challenges we face (support for families and businesses, the vaccination plan) require that this theatre, sometimes of absurdity and sometimes of self-referentiality, is replaced by an assumption of responsibility and seriousness that the country can no longer wait for. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u196	Mr President, never before do we have the urgency and the duty to give answers and to build certainties to get out of the crisis: that is the meaning of this law. In these weeks there is a lot at stake of our destiny, as a nation and as a democracy; it goes from the ability that we will have to start really building a new model of development, first of all with social infrastructures, which are a formidable multiplier of growth and equality: right to health, right to study, quality of work, redistribution of wealth and opportunities, today increasingly concentrated in the hands of the few. It is necessary to build bonds and build societies, because we are no one alone and we are not going anywhere, as they have taught these months. And there is no Italy without a great collective challenge, especially in this time that we live, that is not any time. They need project and vision; these are the first tasks of politics, this is what they must show that they know how to have the forces that have given life to this Government. The ability to respond to the social and economic crisis is a decisive part of the management of the pandemic. Things are connected; for this reason emergency interventions are not enough, so we need a large structural investment plan for restarting. Therefore, this law must serve to put us in a position to make the best and courageous use of the funds of the Next Generation of the European Union, for which Italy has fought successfully, concretely reaffirming the reasons of the Europe of work and solidarity. Mr President, the crisis is putting entire territories at risk; it puts at risk our regions, those of manufacturing and made in Italy, the artisan value of the widespread enterprise, which is one with the life of a territory. In this law there are important interventions that we have taken to strengthen the areas of industrial crisis, those on which we have struggled to establish them, in order to protect our districts. There are fundamental interventions for economic development and the revival of the Regions of the seismic crater. In particular, there is an instrument, the new development contract, with a budget of EUR 100 million, which will also be immediately available to companies in the most suffering crisis areas, such as the shoemaker. We strongly call for measures to cut labour costs, which are planned for the regions of the South, to be extended structurally to all areas of industrial crisis in the regions affected by the 2016 earthquake, to restore confidence to those who do business, because our manufacturing, our workmanship, our craftsmanship are decisive for our future. So much of the draft law speaks of the future in our examination and in particular the investment for the right to study: every extra scholarship is a piece of the future that is recomposing. I think of the resources to expand the no tax area and to get the children of families in difficulty back to university. Among the school rules are some that have a special value, i.e. those that strengthen the Fund against inequalities and the fight against educational poverty, to strengthen the school of children and the paths from zero to six years. These are vital interventions, to prevent the costs of the pandemic from dumping on the weakest children and take away tomorrow from them, in a country like ours, where the dispersion and school dropouts are almost twice as much as the European average. In conclusion, in a country like ours, where the Italian school for too long is no longer the school of inclusion, the resources allocated today are only a first step. The real revolution will have to be to reduce the number of pupils in classes, increase the number of teachers, extend school time and learning time, innovate teaching to give answers to the needs of students, face the node of precariousness, changing a system that is unjust and mortifies teaching. Addressing the problem of insecurity is inescapable for the reopening of schools in safety and is decisive for the relaunch of the school of inclusion and, Mr President, it is decisive to give strength to a new lever of teachers and to give recognition to the most beautiful and most important profession. We must invest in the civil function of teachers and in the desire for the future of students, because both teachers and students represent the best values of our Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u197	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary manoeuvre in our examination leads us to represent two challenges, which are not separate from each other. The first is the health challenge, which unfortunately has seen our country engaged from January 2020 to today, with DPCM in scattered order, openings and contradictory closures, decrees in sequence, schools and benches, with the problem of the transports that has not been solved, because we did not realize that the schools would start again in autumn, and now also with the problem of vaccines, relative to the quantities, but also to the assessments on their obligatoryity. Speaking of which, I read in the paper that someone would refuse to make a vaccine. Personally, especially for those who are in contact with people and first of all for civil servants, I think it's a bit like for the military at the front. The military at the front fleeing are deserters and must be treated as such. [[Applause]] If public personnel refuse to make vaccines they are deserters and must be fired: there must be no other evaluation and no discussion. Alongside and as a result of the health challenge, there is the economic challenge. We have a country that is stationary, with almost 300,000 companies that have ceased their activities and a state that cannot refresh as Germany does. Do we realize that? There have been improvised measures at the last hour and, until now, decree-laws for more than 150 billion euros, the result of a superficial reading from the beginning, with continuous budget deviations and jagged measures, without any connection with a logical design. What, then, is in the maneuver? An important consumer association said that the overall result will be 862 euros more per family per year. In the budget law we have a forecast of issues of 367 billion more debt. Of the 1,150 paragraphs there is certainly something positive: one billion euros for the autonomous fund without cash is important, and it came with an amendment of the opposition to the House. [[Applause]] But the serious question is that a government that has a vision of the country would not have left to an amendment of the opposition to the House an issue like this; a government with a vision of the country would have included it in the provision or would have presented it as an initiative of the Government. [[Applause]] Instead, it was the opposition that did so. The block of the Imu for tourism is very partial. The extension of the ecobonus to 110% is an important measure, also linked to the future recovery, but remains monco in mid 2022. There is provision for 70 million for equal schools and industrial policy interventions. But there are also very negative aspects, for example the 50 euros for lenses (for a total of 5 million): they cost more to the poor man who has the ISEE under 20,000 euros than the contribution to go to practice. Then I remember the fund of 20 million with 1,000 euros to replace the sanitary and showers: it means 20,000 families. The question is: did we invent a new lottery? Shall we add it to the many we have? [[Applause]] This doubt must be borne in mind. Or the extension from seven to ten days of paternity leave: you may agree, but I do not think it is the emergency of the moment and it is essentially about the public sector. As far as tax reform is concerned, an allocation of 8 billion is envisaged, which is then partly absorbed by the single allowance. There are no solutions for everything else: the block of redundancies is extended, waiting for the final blow, because they will all arrive together. All in the hope of the recovery fund. I would like to remind you that, out of 205-209 billion euros of recovery, 180 billion is to be returned. [[Applause]] So it's not the panacea and the whole solution, because the subsidy part must also be returned. That's to remember. I'll finish. There is only one logical thread against the producer. To distribute income, somehow someone has to produce it. You do assistance and no shopping selection. It's not credible. The Parliamentary Budget Office, which has already been mentioned, has defined the budget law as a combination of measures without an underlying political design. [[Applause]] President Conte on television defending himself from his majority; allies engaged in power struggles, since they must prove to exist; clashes to decide which lobby will go to manage the portfolio. [[Applause]] And what about who owns the Secret Service? From the protection of the state to the protection of friends? That is what we do not want, and that is why we are fighting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u199	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u200	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, government representatives, how did we get here? We are at one of the last acts of this comedy - as I thought a few days ago - and instead it is not a comedy, but a tragedy, because we are talking about a dramatic period in which we are institutionally forced to do something that has never happened before, namely to do the second reading of the budget law in forty-eight hours. I repeat, this has never happened before. Someone mentioned the 2019 maneuver. I remember that in that case there was also a third reading because the second reading that we did brought about changes that had to be ratified by the House, so we do not compare things that are not comparable. [[Applause]] However, we remember the rifts that are made regularly in the Constitution and Regulations. The use of trust, therefore an emergency tool, for normality has unfortunately started for a long time. We have seen all the governments that have used more and more trust and now we have reached the historical record. Monocameralism was an exception and became the rule. We have seen another super tear: entire decrees that become amendments to the basic decree, as happened with the decree-restoration laws. Never happened before. Finally - as has already been mentioned - we have a second reading of the budget law carried out in just 48 hours. Undoubtedly we see that this Government is tormented by the internal struggles of the majority. There is even the party of the "purchasing" that moves incredible criticism, but then, however, despite everything it says against the government, it always votes in favour of trust. Original. [[Applause]] Any reference to Italia Viva is purely random. However, I note once again (I have already done so in other interventions) by this Government the inability to govern the variable time, in addition to the constant tensions within the majority. All of this has led to a perfect storm. However, let's also consider the propaganda of the regime, which reminds a little 'the Light Institute of the 20 years and follows communication techniques from reality. I don't want to forget the General States in perfect Louis XIV style. And what to say about Europe's V-day communication: symbolic ceremonies, non-stop television on the theme, from morning to night, really h24, with emotion, interviews and tricolor bands on all channels. This was decided by Europe but in Italy we wanted, indeed you wanted to do even more, with an incredible pompousness. I think we all want to get out of this emergency but wouldn't it be more serious and sober to start vaccination in an organized and continuous way and communicate the numbers of vaccinations done? Maybe it's a bit of a Lombard mindset, but let's look at the practical. We want more people, especially starting from fragile subjects and operators, to be vaccinated regularly, without scenes, with seriousness and continuity in action. That's what we'd like. Speaking of the Covid, perhaps one day someone - I am taking another issue we have no longer talked about - will write the book "The importance of plastic at the time of the Covid" because I remember in this House that he wants so much to do for the elimination of plastic, which perhaps, in this period, plastic has been essential. Let's remember that. [[Applause]] What is certain is that the government sails on sight and I'll tell you that people out there are perfectly understanding it. During the very few days that each of us had to dedicate ourselves to a few tours in our city for some expense, all the people I met, except a good acquaintance of the PD, of any age, social condition and work, really all, before wishing me good wishes, asked me, as the beginning of their speech: When do you send them home? But that's it. Send them home. It would be the most beautiful gift. [[Applause]] Unbelievable. I say this not to make a joke, but to tell you how people's perception is of exasperation. I also want to tell you about the situation of an entrepreneur, who has been told to me these days: real life, lived life. In Alta Lombardia there are many textile entrepreneurs, some companies are really of excellence, and the company I talk about is incredibly solid, so the owner family is very rich, very solid, indeed, and is thinking with great anguish at the time when he will have to fire his staff. They are those families that have had the company handed down from father to son, but also the staff is handed down from generation to generation, and the third generation that currently works there is not known if it will remain. But I'm not just talking about mortification, anger, displeasure, because the real entrepreneur knows that the staff is his greatest wealth. It is not only this; it is also to realize that there will be families in difficulty, that there will be a loss, a small piece less of professional skills, that art of building, of doing, that makes Italy an extraordinary country. All this is distressing. Before concluding, I tell you one last thing even more worrying: a third party of this company, a foreigner, a Chinese, who has lived in Italy for several generations - the children, born in Italy, speak only Italian - has left Italy because it no longer considers this country able to guarantee business. This is very worrying, and someone who only thinks it is important to increase the funding of citizenship income rather than supporting those small, medium and large enterprises that are trying to continue to produce and make this country large and strong financially and economically. [[Applause]] It really is incredible to live this moment; I didn't think I would vote on a budget law like this. It happened. Let's be careful. As Mr Richetti said earlier, we are massacred our institutions, and we cannot allow that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u201	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u202	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are two positions on the maneuver: the majority commends the strong points, the opposition attacks claiming that it is made of tips, measures that make the measure a pitfall of meaningless interventions. I like to talk about facts, not opinions. I think politics is more than attacking by telling half the truth, hiding the other half, just trying to bring water to your own mill. We spend too much time lying to each other, risking figures not upbuilding in front of the Italians, who do not care about the begas of the Palace, but just wait for the pandemic to end up being able to resume a normal life, reopen the shops, travel, return to class with companions and teachers, hug their loved ones. Among the most dramatic situations, of which, unfortunately, I am a first-person witness, there is that of loneliness, experienced by all the people admitted. As much as we all appreciate the effort and sensitivity with which the staff of the various hospitals tries to take care of our loved ones, all this can never replace the closeness or affection of their family. Even the strongest personality, seeing itself lost and without certainties, risks letting go, and not all, unfortunately, have or have had the strength to react. But let's get back to the maneuver. We can say that for this year it is the fourth budget law, at least as far as the effort of billions of euros put into the pot: care Italy, relaunch, raise-a, for 100 billion total, and now this budget law with about 40 billion. Parts of the oppositions do not talk about the large numbers approved by the draft budget law under consideration and prefer to focus on the measures they define tips, claiming that the whole maneuver is a tip. Can we really define some measures? Maybe so, perhaps some of the Members of this House have tabled and have been approved by one, five or ten million euros. If it has done so to ingratiate the citizens of their own constituency, it has done something regrettable in my view, whether it is opposition or even a majority. But, if that figures remedy a situation that concerns a small economic area that grabs a part of the Italian population, then I would not howl at the moon, but I would look at everything system as a whole. Just considering the macrothemes we realize how this is anything but a maneuver of tips and tips. It allocates in fact 8 billion to finance the tax reform of 2022, 5 billion for the extension of the Cassa Integrazione, 3 billion for the single cheque from mid 2021, which will become 5.5 billion under regime; and still 3.3 billion for the stabilization of the cut of the tax wedge; 24 billion in the three years for the National Transition Plan 4.0; one billion for the white year contribution of autonomous and VAT consignments; an additional billion for the National Health Fund, one billion to cope with the vaccination campaign with the recruitment of 3,000 doctors and 12,000 nurses; 3.7 billion in the three years for the school; 1.1 billion for the tax credit for the Mezzogiorno, as well as 6 billion in 2022 for the superbon and I stop at the figures that exceed the billion euro. Tip or tip! Intellectual honesty should lead to admitting that these are bodily and organic interventions that affect all sections of the population. With the universal single grant we help couples to have children, trying to reverse the decline in the birth rate that Italy suffers from, while with the partial exemption of contributions we support small self-employed entrepreneurs and freelance professionals, especially young people, who feel in a particular way the weight of this contribution. With health funds, we are even more supportive of the health system in this country. I would like to remind you that, in the face of tears and blood cuts in the previous decade for about 37 billion, since the 5 Star Movement has been in the government on the health sector, 13 billion more have been put in place. [[Applause]] With the funds for energy redevelopment and the extension of the superbonus we start the economy without consuming the soil. This measure is formidable and, although to be improved, it has already caused a surge in medium-sized jobs, with a geographical distribution with leopard stain and this means that small and medium-sized enterprises work throughout the country. How can we fail to see the unity of the law, which affects the vital segments of our country: family, small businesses, autonomous and VAT matches, the health system? This means that a whole virtuous circle of the economy can start to grow again. I believe at this point that I have shown that the principle of Walli, the so-called Law 80/20, is widely respected by this draft budget law and, above all, that it is presumptuous to extend to the whole measure the comment that could be made for one, ten, fifty measures that are worth a small part of the entire maneuver. There are also zero-cost measures in the measure which remedy problems created years ago. For example, paragraph 487 of Article 1 puts an end to the problem of non-payment of charges to cover end-of-term treatment (TFR) and end-of-service treatment (TFS) for former employees of the Italian Red Cross (CRI) placed on compulsory mobility. There are about 2,200 people who have worked for the CRI, who in the administrative sector who in the operating one; then came the legislative decree n. 178 of 2012, that in my opinion has reorganized in a disastrous way the Italian Red Cross, putting in mobility the employees and moving them to other administrations of the State, creating an instrumental institution in liquidation (the so-called Esacri) and a new association of the Italian Red Cross, private, that however continues to receive subsidies from the State. In all this the contributions to the TFR and the TFS of these staff have not been paid. The aforementioned legislative decree n. 178 of 2012, certainly formulated by the genes of the economy, provided that they were welded with the transfer of real estate for equal value, but at the time of the facts the INPS, not wanting to be a realtor, obviously did not accept this condition. With the help of the staff involved in this issue (which I thank), I proposed an amendment to the August Decree-Law, which was, however, inadmissible on the ground. However, this proposal has found the interest of the President of the Tridico INPS, who has taken to heart the absurd situation that is cured with the measure under consideration. I know that others are putting the hat on this measure; I do not care whether they have really worked on solving the problem now or not. All I know is that they didn't do it before and that, before my amendment and the appreciation of President Tridico, there was no trace of wanting to resolve this situation in the House or in the Senate. [[Applause]] Maybe it's just a coincidence that it's now in the arctic. This problem, which caused a great stir, should have been resolved before it even came to the attention of the well-known television programs. I'm glad you can finally order a piece of the history of the Red Cross. Let us move forward with the conviction of doing the good of the country and remember that there is no perfect recipe or a perfect budget law, especially in an emerging situation such as the one we are experiencing, but that if most of the law has its own organicity - and I believe I have proved it - then the country is receiving the tool it needs to start again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u203	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of Article 1 of Law No 2054 of the Budget Budget of the State for the financial year 2021 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2021-2023, in the same text as that approved by the House of Deputies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u205	The Presidency notes the position of the matter of confidence on the adoption of Article 1 of Law No 2054, in the same text as that approved by the House of Deputies. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the debate on trust will begin tomorrow, at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u206	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-288.ana.u207	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, December 30, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.50 p.m.
