ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved. The list...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u4	TARICCO (PD). I would ask you to put it on the record that I asked for the floor before the vote was held. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u5	Are you talking about yesterday's session? TARICCO (PD). Exactly. I asked for the floor before the vote was taken, and I ask for it to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u6	Look, there's a report and a shorthand report that realizes everything that's happened. The sequence of the work was represented punctually by the Report. Sorry, we are in the vote. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u9	MANTOVANI (M5S). I am speaking on the Minutes of yesterday's sitting. According to Senator Taricco, it can be seen from the video that the President's assistants pointed out that there were people who wanted to speak in the Chamber before you declared the vote open. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u12	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I, however, want it to be put on the record. Then, if we want to, let's go see the videos that will make it clear that we had asked for the floor - I certainly had asked for it - before you put the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u15	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I always speak on the Minutes of yesterday's sitting. Last night I was absolutely without a voice and I complained about this with the President of my Group, asking him for greater protection of the prerogatives of all Members. I was sitting on the third floor up there, and since President Calderoli started talking, I have raised my hand to ask for the floor. After that, I started screaming. I yelled earlier, I yelled later. [[Applause]] The truth is, when you're sitting up there, you don't see much. From there we can't carry out our business. I can assure you, though. There were the assistants in the Chamber who can confirm this and there were the same members of the opposition who saw me screaming like an eagle from my place. I wrestled, but I couldn't get the word. This is an incontrovertible fact which can be confirmed, both by all the colleagues who were sitting there on the third floor and by the opposition colleagues themselves. Mr President, you know that I am not trying to raise issues of any kind and I always do so in a very quiet manner. Yesterday it was not even so, because - I repeat - I finished the session without a voice, because I tried to make my reasons felt without being able to do so. I insist that this was also noted by the parliamentary assistants who were present there in the third row. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u18	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, the same thing happened to me. I, yesterday, when you asked if anyone wanted to intervene, I raised my hand from up here and there were so many around me who could testify to it. I asked, I called, but I was not given the floor. So, I would like that to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u21	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, unfortunately I too, like my colleagues yesterday, have not only asked for the floor, but I have tried desperately to vote from these posts, from where it is increasingly difficult, for how work is organised and for how technology is structured, which should enable us, by voting, to exercise our prerogatives. Not only did I fail to get my will to speak to the Presidency, but I did not even succeed in expressing my vote on the famous tablet, so much so that I was forced, subsequently, to protect my prerogatives, to go down and invade the House, at a time when, as you all know, I should not do so for the health rules in force. Attention, however, Mr President, I also had to do so in order to protect the parliamentary institution at such a delicate time as that of voting. The free expression, guaranteed, of the vote by us Members at the moment is not just about the fundamental prerogative of being able to vote. The inability to vote safely undermines the credibility of the parliamentary institution itself. [[Applause]] We saw, in fact, yesterday that this impossibility of having guaranteed the free expression of the vote comes to determine a situation that has no precedent in history and in the parliamentary annals: to have cancelled, even, a vote of confidence so important, as today it is possible to read in all the newspapers and listen on all the radios and on all the televisions. What has happened is serious from an organizational point of view, but above all from a political and institutional point of view. What happened yesterday afternoon - I repeat - is serious from the organisational point of view, but above all from the political and institutional point of view because the annulment of a parliamentary vote, in this case even of a vote of confidence, which must give citizens the security of having a Parliament in the fullness of their prerogatives in order to work at such a delicate stage for the whole country, is a black page that must be deepened, because it not only harms the image of Parliament, but it affects our political credibility among citizens, and it also deeply undermines our international credibility. We cannot guarantee the citizens the security of having a Parliament in the fullness of their functions and I wonder at international level what will be written today in all the gates. I wonder what kind of messages are being sent to, for example, the Farnesina, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. We must take responsibility for all this and you too, Mr President, must take responsibility for what happened yesterday. It is not only a technical problem, because the organizational and technological malfunctions of this Parliament, its Presidency and the Presidency table, through which the proper functioning of the institution should be ensured, have produced a situation through which - I repeat - the annulment of a vote of confidence has been determined, the credibility of Parliament has been undermined, exploited mercilessly [[Applause]] from opposition with regulatory quills to hand. In this respect, we must say that Senator Calderoli, who is his Vice-President, would have a duty not to discredit Parliament by using regulatory subterfuges. [[Applause]] He is your Vice President and I believe that you have a duty to ensure that the opposition has recourse to these half-breeds, but you also have a duty to call him back to the institutional function he plays. For these reasons, Mr President, I invite you, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, on behalf of all voters and all citizens, to consider with great caution the steps we are about to take. What you will decide this morning will remain in the parliamentary annals and will be a dangerous precedent if we are not all in a position to exercise the parliamentary rights that the citizens have given us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u22	May I say that perhaps the word 'dangerous' could have saved it. [[Comments.]] I think it always takes respect for the institutions, because you are certainly not the bearer of a truth. [[Comments]] You can't afford it. [[Comments.]] Don't let him go and sit down. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u25	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like it to be recorded that from the position in which we are seeing very well the Members who are in the gallery and I would like to confirm that several of them, those who spoke earlier, raised their hands yesterday before the vote. I would also like to point out that with the use of tablets we have a rather abnormal situation because, both yesterday and today, it was given to us that we did not need to vote on the tablet and that it was not even necessary to turn it on. This, on yesterday's day, caused, both on our side of the House and where colleagues sit before us, moments of excitement, because, between switching on the tablet and entering data, it was quite difficult to vote at the right time. I wanted to point this out, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u28	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, on the basis of the requests made by my fellow Members, and I am referring explicitly to that of Senator Taricco, since the minutes explicitly state the timing of the request for intervention by Senator Taricco, I would ask you to proceed to the vote on the minutes, on which we request this amendment, and then to proceed to the vote on confidence. I would ask you to vote on the Minutes, as provided for in Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u29	Who's picking up on the phone? Then I'd like to point out something. We will certainly now proceed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to Rule 60, which is referred here for the possible correction of the Minutes, to a vote by show of hands. However, I would like to make the following point: I am used to taking on all the responsibilities, as is the case with those who chair this House. So, I don't back out and I have to say that I am very bitter about what happened yesterday afternoon on the vote of confidence. I must say I wasn't there, but President Taverna was there. [[Comments]] Excuse me, I said I'm taking responsibility. There was President Taverna, but there was a mistake that is not attributable to anyone. [[Comments]] After I get her to talk, let me finish. I learned last night at 8.45 p.m. that there had been this problem. Anything can be said, but that we blame the Presidency for a computer error, even to the point of defining it as dangerous, seems to me to be excessive. Then we have a dangerous computer system. I would also point out that, if there was no quorum yesterday, this is certainly not attributable to the Presidency either. If there was no majority, it is not attributable to the Presidency. [[Applause]] I would also point out that when one asks to speak, since the President does not look at three hundred and sixty degrees, I have before me, precisely to ensure that everyone can speak, a parliamentary assistant, then there are the Secretary Senators who must report the requests, in addition to the General Secretariat. So when someone tells me something, I give the floor; because sometimes I read and I can't have the third eye to watch as I read, I can't see the whole House at the same time. Secretary senators, assistants and the Secretariat-General should Report it to me. I have never denied anyone the word, that is to be specified. Senator Calderoli raised his hand first yesterday and this was pointed out to the Presidency, which gave the floor. I went down because I had been asked to come down for the vote of confidence, and then to do the Conference of the Leaders later. This is the sequence. I have to say that I have nothing to blame on yesterday's conduct, but I want to apologize, because I am sorry that the electronic system did not work. However, I cannot accept anyone saying that this Parliament - or this Senate - has a responsibility for a serious computer disorder (repeat, serious). Last night, when I learned it, I certainly did not jump with joy because it is the first time in thirty years that this thing happens and it absolutely did not have to happen. So I can agree on that. The fact, then, that this compromises democracy! Democracy is another thing: it is a possibility for everyone in this House to vote and give everyone the chance to vote every time. Therefore, I do not accept lessons from anyone regarding the conduct of this House and the possibility for everyone to speak, to exercise democratically the vote and to say what they want to say. Having said that, by way of a show of hands, I would like to point out the vote on the Minutes... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u32	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, the Bureau is impersonal and making names and surnames only degrades the institution. [[Applause]] Yesterday I was chairing, in place of Mr La Russa, who consciously knew what would happen in this House, namely the desire to make the quorum fail. [[Applause]] Not a political opposition between those who were in favour and those who were opposed to the measure, but the intention to undermine the institution in its expression and to put the country in difficulty on a measure that concerns the date of the elections. I don't context anything to anyone. In particular, I wish to denounce in this House the shameful behaviour of Senator Gasparri, who yesterday on television told us that the Presidency had mystified the result, in the figure of the Vice President, who is there to enforce this House. [[Applause]] I never strayed from my duty and yesterday I replaced a colleague and replaced, in his figure, the institution that I represent with honour and that I have always carried out with the utmost respect. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u33	Senator Taverna, I frankly don't understand what that means. She just replaced it. You're the Vice President, and when I leave, you're replacing him. What's this got to do with anything? This is an unacceptable will for controversy. [[Comments.]] Who is in favour of voting on the Minutes by show of hands? I have spoken of amending the Minutes... [[Comments.]] What do you want to intervene on? We're voting. I called the vote. In this House it is not possible to photograph, I say it all the time. Who are you photographing? You have to tell me, please! Are you here like puppets or do you want to talk? Senator Lucidi, tell me you're doing a live feed. Here you can't photograph, you can't, it's forbidden. You all need to know the rules. I don't have to teach you. [[Applause. Comments]] Senator Lucidi, every time I say it can't be done and keep doing it. This is the responsibility of each one. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, by show of hands, on the amended Minutes, pursuant to Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u34	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u35	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u36	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] I would like to recall one of our employees, who unfortunately failed. The premature disappearance of Elena Di Pancrazio has aroused feelings of deep emotion between the employees of the Senate and all of us. Generous, always available for collaboration, Elena Di Pancrazio was a brilliant documentary writer, very prepared; she was a graduate in law. Cultivated and efficient, he revealed unmistakable professional skills in his work over twenty years at the International Affairs Service, where he spent his entire career in the Senate. But Elena Di Pancrazio also had uncommon personal qualities: fairness, loyalty, solidarity, concrete and effective listening ability, a positive character and naturally oriented to the common good. It leaves a great void, but also an equally great example. I am deeply close to the family, to the husband, to the three children, to whom I renew my feelings and feelings of this whole Assembly of affectionate and touching participation. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u37	The next item is the final vote, pursuant to Rule 108 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1845, already approved by the House of Deputies. Yesterday's sitting [[Comments. Applause]] , due to an error in the tab produced by the calculation system... [[Comments]] So, you were so interested in what happened yesterday, I'm reading it. In yesterday's sitting, following an error in the record produced by the system of automatic calculation of leave on the basis of previous electronic votes, two senators who had taken part in the vote on the question for a preliminary ruling were not missing, so that, following the checks carried out, the Senate was not in a quorum at the time of closing the call. Consequently, the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 26 of 20 April 2020 cannot be considered approved in yesterday's sitting. That is why - and I repeat that I regret and regret this - it is therefore necessary to cancel the proclamation of the result of yesterday's vote and to proceed to a new vote. I therefore have the vote on the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 26 of 20 April 2020 on which the Government raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u38	I would like to point out the vote on the single article of bill No. 1845, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 26 of 20 April 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his place. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Pichetto Fratin is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Pichetto Fratin. Montevecchi, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bress, Buccarella Campagna, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Cattaneo, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Crocioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Felini, Di Nicolara, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fattori, Fattori, Fedeolamo, Fedeli, Flori, Flori, Ferrari (Senators Monti, Nannicini and Nencini declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are there any other senators who want to vote? If there is no one to vote, I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of bill No. 1845, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 26 of 20 April 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 162 Senators voting 158 Majority 80 Favorables 158]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 26.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u41	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Regional Council headed by President Thesei has made it more difficult for women to apply Law No 194: a serious and terrible step backwards in the history of rights, against the freedom of self-determination of women. In fact, with the resolution of the Regional Council n. 467 of 10 June 2020, at the suggestion of the regional council member, the possibility of administering the pharmacological treatment RU486 under day hospital and home health care arrangements has been cancelled. You have understood well: a great step back for the right of choice of all women. In short, those who wish to have an abortion will have to be admitted to the hospital for at least three days - I say three days - being forbidden the possibility of day hospital, as was possible until 10 June, also through a controlled path of home health care. A question not very simple, if it is true, as is estimated, that in Umbria two out of three doctors are conscientious objectors. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you what these women will tell during their stay - at this forced point - at the hospital to employers, family members and acquaintances. In short, in a moment of extreme psychological difficulty these women will find themselves forced to justify themselves, to give explanations of their lives. To whom, I ask you, does a woman have to ask permission, if not to herself? [[Applause]] In fact, the Regional Council has deprived the Umbrian women of discreet, less invasive and psychologically less devastating routes than having to resort to a hospitalization of at least three days, with the consequent logistic difficulties connected to the prolonged hospitalization. The intention of such a measure is clear and easy to understand. With the excuse of greater protection of women's health, we want to make the path of voluntary termination of pregnancy as difficult to take, making it more complicated and more public, hoping to discourage the use of the pill RU486. As if that weren't enough, the junta Thesei has also made a gaffe. In a resolution in May, in full phase two, there are guidelines on voluntary termination of pregnancy, which promotes the pill as a service - and I quote from page 63 - protected and guaranteed. Then I'll turn her back. President Tesei shows how to be a woman is not enough to be a friend of women and to support the rights that have been hard-won with decades of struggles and sacrifices. The 5 Star Movement, at all institutional levels, will fight to remedy this absurd decision to the detriment of women and do everything to restore the widest possibility of decision-making in the matter of voluntary termination of pregnancy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u44	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, two days ago, the European Court of Auditors certified once again, if ever there is still a need for someone who does not want to understand, that the costs of the Turin-Lion high-speed line are disproportionate, that the tunnel is useless and will not improve the situation in freight transport. In fact we remember that it should transport quickly only goods, between Piedmont and France; goods that are not there, because all the forecasts of traffic are based on a false hypothesis, as already widely demonstrated and certified. If the traffic volumes were the current ones, not even for 2050 would the investment on that work - I repeat - be worthless. The costs are disproportionate, the environmental damage enormous, the consumption of CO2 is such that it is not known whether and when it would be reabsorbed, recovered or compensated by any savings deriving from the realization of this work. [[Applause]] These are huge economic costs that Italy should bear, billions that must be used at the moment for health, for our citizens, for national infrastructures that are lacking, and we see it continuously. [[Applause]] There are fragile bridges that need manpower; this was also pointed out yesterday by the opposition's colleagues in the questions to Minister De Micheli. Do we have to make the whole world laugh at us? When who finally makes these decisions will realize that we need those billions for something else? All those who had to do so have already certified it; let us put an end to this waste and to this waste. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u47	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would simply like to make one point. I had the opportunity to read carefully the shorthand report of yesterday's sitting and I wanted to leave it to the documents which, where on page 38 it is generally recalled that counterproof was requested, I am one of the people who did it most forcefully. We have now realized, in the last twenty-four hours, that at that moment it was difficult to understand, perhaps even behind the mask, from whom exactly the requests came. But I wanted to leave the proceedings, because it was important that it was in the proceedings, that the Democratic Party asked for a counterproof of the vote for the non-version to the examination of the articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was told it was you, Senator Ferrari.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u50	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am sorry, it is not my custom to speak at the end of the sitting, but I was caught up in the news that during today's sitting, it had been made, so I must say not quite correct in my opinion, a hypothesis from Senator Taverna about my incorrect request for replacement by the Bureau in order to try not to have a quorum. This was in a context of controversy with Senator Gasparri, to whom of course I am completely foreign and I believe that this is not in doubt. I really found out of every rule and out of all logic the intervention of my colleague, who accused me openly (I heard the recording). So I ask for a jury of honor, since it is peaceful, dear Senator Taverna, as the offices will be able to testify, that I had asked for the replacement two days before, because there was a center-right summit, which the press agencies have reported, in which I participate together with Mr Meloni. In any case, his speech to another Vice President would not have been very elegant, but elegance is not an obligation. The truth is, though. And the truth is that, through my offices, I had called the competent office and the official on duty already on Tuesday; Wednesday I had then mentioned to the Secretary-General and Dr. Toniato the need to get the replacement for Thursday, because I did not know how long this summit would last, which in fact has been postponed and rippled several times. One phone call of yours would have been enough to inquire with me. We also have a shared chat. Since that's the truth, I'm asking you for a public apology. If you do not think you should give it to me, I believe that the Rules of Procedure allow for someone to verify this certain truth. I'm saying it with no clinging and no getting angry. I understand the story that involved her, with the technical error; I just told an agency: they asked me if, in my opinion, she had done it on purpose and I replied that I thought not; they asked me if it would happen to me and I replied that I thought not. Maybe it wouldn't have happened to me, but who knows? You don't know. Maybe it would have happened to me, too. I therefore ask for a public apology, otherwise, Mr President, I would ask you formally to proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I think I have a serene tone. I am simply making it clear that my request to replace Senator Taverna was not motivated because it could not be, since at that time no one knew what would happen, least of all me who was in Verona on Wednesday to attend the funeral of a dead colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u53	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking as calmly as Senator La Russa has explained his facts. Of course, I pulled the senator into the debate when I was called to respond to things that could not be attributed to the Presidency, which, as I continue to support, is informal because I was replacing Senator La Russa. Where the replacement was not, as unfortunately it was in the Chamber, a will, but a requirement, I could not know that and I apologise a posteriori if I attributed an intention that was not so. It is true that the Group of Senator La Russa, as then happened, has abstained, as have the oppositions in their legitimate action of opposition, in order to create what then unfortunately occurred. Mr President, I would like to point out here that I brought Senator La Russa into the debate because I was objectively replacing him, but certainly the problem arises from Senator Gasparri's statements, which I would ask you to check because they do not question Senator Taverna, but the goodness and reality of what is happening in the Senate Chamber. [[Applause]] In fact, if you accuse my person of the mystification of a result, President, you know very well that it is not I, there, who can manage the result of a vote; I am there to honor the institution of the Senate and, therefore, the action of Senator Gasparri, in questioning my person, you question, as Vice President, and the Senate all as High House, the institution and impartiality and the truth of what happens here. I repeat, therefore, that if the indication or my thought that there could be a unity of intent between the request for replacement and the lack of quorum does not correspond to truth, I apologise to Vice-President La Russa. Where I'm being insulted, I ask you to stand up not for Vice President Taverna, but for the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u54	Before I give the floor to Senator Perilli, I would like to point out that you are constantly referring to a transmission. Unfortunately, at night I work and I don't have time to watch television. So you referred to what Senator Gasparri said, but maybe last night was a special day, since we were starting all the procedures for calling this morning. Therefore, referring to something that perhaps someone has not seen, I do not think...: I am referring to saying something like this to the Presidency, referring to a transmission that, perhaps, someone has not even seen. No one questioned his good repute, because I made a precise reference to an error that was not attributable to anyone, which was solely attributable to the computer system. I said that three times, apologizing to the Senate. Now, let's not make a case.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u57	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, we must be calm but not indifferent, and frankly we will not be happy at the next part-sessions. I speak on behalf of our Group: I do not know whether you are afraid or not, but a little shame you should feel, for what you have done and for what you have said. [[Applause]] I am surprised, Mr Bernini, that these words come from a Group President. You see, President, it doesn't matter, I could say, if you couldn't see the broadcast, because agencies have come out - and I would like to remind you - in which they say quite widely - President, I would like your attention - that President Gasparri has used exactly the words 'institutional cheating'. He spoke of institutional fraud, accusing vice president Taverna. [[Applause]] Therefore, on behalf of our Group, I express the greatest outrage at this very serious insinuation and, at the same time, I believe that I represent the outrage of all my colleagues, not just those of my Group, because the institution has been attacked. [[Applause]] We are talking about the Bureau and, therefore, you too, Mr President. It would be good if in addition to the words he often uses, trying to bring back the right attention to the value and dignity of this institution, she would express as many words of indignation and ask, as I ask her, Senator Gasparri's apologies for his abusive expressions. We are talking about distorting the results and it is a very serious thing to which we will always ask Senator Gasparri's apologies and we will reserve ourselves to do whatever is possible. [[Applause]] I say this not in the sole interest of Senator Taverna, we repeat it, but in the interest of the Senate itself. So, Mr President, I would like to say that there are no broadcasts or issues: words have been said on the air that have been reported by the agencies and we need a clear stance, because this is intolerable, it is shameful. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u60	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, last night, at 9.30 p.m., I learned that the Senate would be convened for this morning, which no one expected, because a call had been planned if the work had not been completed, but all yesterday were convinced that there was not, first of all, colleagues of the majority, hastily returned to the Capital (I heard some of them last night that they were in Genoa, Palermo or Milan, of various Groups). The convocation confirmed with respect to a calendar that was only possible therefore surprised everyone, because we all left the works of the Senate - who participated and who legitimately did not participate in the voting yesterday - in the presumption that the works had been completed, that the decree-law had been converted and that the legal number had been reached. This was the condition that occurred yesterday at 6.30 p.m. Those who were in this House voted and those who were in the Senate, like me, followed events. I do not know at what time colleagues received the summons, it arrived at me around 9.30 p.m. because I believe that the determination of the quorum - whether there was a quorum or not - has continued. I have a long parliamentary experience and something like this - they tell me that there is a precedent in 1989 - in recent stages I do not remember it, I mean the proclamation of a result and then a reanimated convocation - the one already scheduled for Friday - that no one thought there was. Then, if the Members who are present thought that they would come to vote this morning, they will say so. Everyone knew that the operation was concluded. I learned this, I said in a television show that it is an institutional fraud to proclaim a result that is not there, because it is a very cheated thing and the fault is of those who announced the result and presided over the session. [[Protests]] So I repeat the request for the resignation of Vice President Taverna who proclaimed a result that was not real. Otherwise, this morning, what are we doing here? With regard to non-voting, which before Senator Taverna, in her speech to which I had not replied (at the end of the sitting), she stigmatized, the faculty to participate or not to participate in the vote is a full right of parliamentarians and in parliamentary history all the Groups have used it. Yesterday we decided not to take part in the vote in front of the umpteenth abuse of Parliament denounced, yesterday, by the President of the Senate Alberti Casellati, whom I thank for the words he expressed, defending a Senate suffocated by trust, votes and even results that were not true. So Senator Taverna apologizes to the Italians and resigns as Vice President of the Senate. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u61	Senator Gasparri, we can't say that. Senator Taverna proclaimed a result that came out of the count. If the count turns out to be wrong, nothing can be attributed to Senator Taverna. [[Applause.]] No responsibility whatsoever. I said this three times this morning: unfortunately - and I am sorry - there was a mistake, but that clearly cannot be attributable to Senator Taverna. As always happens (and a President and the Vice Presidents know this), there comes a sheet with the results of a count, which we cannot do, which make offices and which are found on the computer. There has been a mistake and it is certainly not attributable to those who represented him.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u64	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make one point straight away. Of course, Senator Gasparri spoke personally, urged by a speech by Vice President Taverna. Legittimo the intervention of the vice president Taverna, just as legitimate the answer of Senator Gasparri. I would like to represent the position of the Forza Italia Group in the Senate. No one has ever attributed any responsibility to Senator Taverna. We have joined the option of our colleague... [[Comments.]] It's an objective fact, colleagues. We are in an emergency situation, which we hope will soon be able to normalize, in which votes are expressed not only by the Chamber, as has always been the case. [[Comments]] , but also from the stands. It is evident that, having a double action, human and computer science, error is possible. We have given no responsibility to those who proclaimed the result. If this is a political polemic, [[Comments]] Animated by another element, that is that of the presence or absence of the opposition during the vote of confidence, I would like to emphasize, with the same clarity that I used with reference to Senator Taverna, that it is absolutely legitimate on the part of the oppositions to use as an instrument of political opposition the non participation in the vote. And I'd like to separate from the senator's intervention... [[Happy comments.]] Colleagues, we're not at the tavern. Excuse me. I have already accepted from President Count expressions of all kinds without making any objection and any consideration. I did not bring to the attention of President Alberti Casellati a behavior to say the least eccentric that President Conte had towards me, as Parent Company of Forza Italia. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who have never received insults, abusive expressions or gestures from us, because we do not do so, to use the same kindness towards us. It surprised me that President Perilli, whom I respect and respect and with whom I have always collaborated, as I have always collaborated with the same respect and esteem with my colleague Patuanelli, throws at us threats that have no reason to exist in this House. [[Comments.]] Colleagues, do we want to stop talking to each other like this? But do you realize that this is a way to bring this institution down? It is not us, this institution; we represent it... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u65	Please, it takes respect not only institutional, but also relational: so, let us finish talking.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u66	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr Alberti Casellati, I am appealing to you: is it possible that there are people who are unleashed - some in particular - who turn to me by hand gestures? Colleagues, we have some respect for the institution: we are not the institution, but we represent it protempore. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is not just an institutional respect, but a relational one, I call this: have respect when one speaks. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). It is a human respect, Mr President: I agree. I would therefore like our position to be clear and that it was clear what I said, that I am ready to repeat it in every Chamber; I would also like to see no question of our way of conducting a political struggle which, we repeat, is absolutely legitimate, especially in the face of a disdainable use of trust and of the time of examination and approval of the measures in this House, which you yourself, Mr President, rightly and in an unexceptionable manner, have repeatedly stigmatized. So to make a long story something short: no one has lifted in doubt the technical error or even less we will do it, but that no one from the majority politely allows himself to question the legitimacy of our political struggle tool!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u69	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Lega Group, on the matter which you saw involved both yesterday and this morning, I apologise if there has been any behavior, attitude or gesture of insanity, due - as is understandable - to moments, clearly stirred up, of confrontation and political confrontation: this can happen and we apologise also to President Alberti Casellati; Yesterday I got a little upset, so I apologize officially and we will try to do everything we can - first of all - to prevent such episodes from happening again. On the matter of the mistake that was made in yesterday's vote, we too absolutely believe in good faith. It can happen, whether it is the electronic system or a person who, at a particular moment, is wrong to make a count: the human error is there, we are all wrong and everyone can make mistakes, it is absolutely normal that it is so. We have reasons to believe that this can happen, this is our thought; with solidarity and respect, let us try to avoid these polemics, this is the position of the League, also because we would like the polemics not to try to hide - and here at the political level - what yesterday however happened: on the vote of confidence on a decree-law has lacked the legal number, this is the political data. In today's vote, despite the call made by everyone - I have also seen some senators present for life - the majority does not, however, reach the 160 votes of the absolute majority. This is the political fact that emerges and, from our point of view, we would not want the polemics to hide this fact: there is a government that however the absolute majority does not have it. We must also draw political conclusions from this. To those colleagues who have made the controversy, I say that the mistake that has happened, if I am not mistaken - as it was written in the newspapers and confirmed by the offices - basically has a precedent dating back to 1989. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It wasn't even that, so we didn't find a precedent like that, because it's not comparable to the 1989 episode. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I do not know, however, I was told about a mistake about the vote in 1989, regardless of whether it was of confidence, verification of the quorum or anything else. Well, Senators Gasparri, Bernini and La Russa, let's take it as a good auspicious: in 1989 the Berlin Wall fell; this Government will also fall and we will celebrate the day of freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u72	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to begin by speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr La Russa has made clear with his speech, and I was pleased with the attention that the whole House has paid him, just as we note Mr Taverna's apologies. It is a gesture - in a rather lively climate - of which I repeat, with some satisfaction, hoping that it will serve as a lesson to everyone in order to avoid, on other occasions, making mistakes or expressing oneself in a way that may give rise to misunderstandings. I come to the credit. There is no desire - on the part of Brothers of Italy - to take an active part in the matter of mere technical and material error in the calculation of votes. You must note instead that, before all this, which certainly represents a serious and important incident, Brothers of Italy requested yesterday, taking a strong position, the Government to discuss and rewrite together an important measure for this country; a full-bodied measure, which arrived late from the House, which had only four days to be examined in the Commission and which could not be discussed in the Chamber. And the content of this measure is important not for one party or another: it is important for everyone, for the country, for the votes we will go to in September. Unfortunately, our proposal was not accepted, and we wanted to protest - followed by the other opposition forces - not participating yesterday, as today, in the vote of confidence - to underline that, unfortunately, with yesterday we arrived at the twenty-seventh vote of confidence, and that this parliamentary practice, now more and more consolidated, prevents us from discussing and correcting the measures. It is an arrogant course that disturbs us and worries us about parliamentary democracy. And since I have read some press releases from a majority group leader, who left the Chamber five minutes ago, who said that the Brothers of Italy took advantage of a long weekend, I repeat that this is not acceptable. I have to say this - and I say this with calmness, but with firmness - because yesterday we anticipated and explained, before leaving the Chamber, our attitude and all the reasons for not participating in the vote of confidence. Everyone knows that the lack of the legal number is a responsibility of the majority, and it is a political fact in particular on such a delicate and important provision; therefore it is equally important and equally legitimate to choose the opposition not to participate in a vote when it is given to this absence - as we of Brothers of Italy have done - a meaning of political dissent. Let us recognize the right and freedom of the oppositions to express themselves and let us not talk about weekends at sea; let us not say weekends at sea because Brothers of Italy worked in the Commission and was in the Chamber in his place, willing to work and then explained the political reasons for his dissent. The absence is political dissent, it is a sign of protest when the majority goes on with votes of confidence, emergency decrees and DPCM.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u75	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I should like to make a few comments. First on the measure. I would like to remind you that the conditions that led us to put the question of trust - also because of the very close expiry of the decree-law compared to when the Senate was able to examine it - depended essentially on a obstructionism of the Brothers of Italy Group carried out in the Chamber, only by the Brothers of Italy Group. It is legitimate, but it cannot be said that it is because of the delays of the majority if the works in the Senate were contracted. There was the obstruction of a centre-right Group to a decree-law that basically created the conditions for an agreement, as it must be, between all the political parties so that the elections, which concern all the political parties, were carried out in the best way and at the best possible time, finding in agreement the point of fall among all the political parties. It is thanks to that obstruction, also through the many amendments that have been tabled, if we have come to examine the measure without ample time. With regard to the reference to the responsibility that President Romeo also made, it is correct, but it must be all-round. Even today we are in a position to work with difficulties. The vote, which with a great sense of responsibility and also the quality of the offices and the Bureau, has been established could be made by the forums, put the senators in a position to participate fully in the work of this House and was not taken for granted in the past weeks. We knew we had to do some trouble. The difficulties are still there, I trust and I am sure that the Offices and the President will do everything to improve the interaction between the voting methods, but I would like to point out that yesterday we did not have the quorum because all the senators in the center-right have come out. They have therefore put a decree-law in a state of fragility precisely because of the situation that is determined by the health emergency, which is not yet over; while they are aware of this situation, the whole centre-right has come out, putting this Parliament in a position or not in a position to respect the legal number, which is different from expressing its own opinion contrary to a measure. If therefore responsibility is valid, responsibility must be on the part of all. We will safeguard this institution if we take note of what must be done in a condition of exit from the emergency which, however, is not yet complete. It is up to us, of course, to ensure that the majority always have the numbers, alone, in order to be able to carry out the measures, especially those of the Government that we support, but to ensure that this House carries out its function of converting the decrees is also the responsibility of the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u78	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, already yesterday in my explanation of vote - I say this because perhaps the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy were not there and therefore did not hear - I explained, as we tried to do very clearly also in the debate that there was in the 1st Commission on the decree-law, that the responsibility for the fact that we had arrived at the last days, at the last hours in order to convert the decree-law was certainly not really to be attributed, this time, to the work of the majority or to the delays exclusively of the majority in the House. Everyone must assume his own responsibilities: it has been done - legitimately, out of charity - an activity of obstructionism in the Chamber that has led to a remarkable, insane delay. Do you think that we, the senators of the majority, are so happy that we cannot somehow change the decrees, say our own, do our duty? We're not happy about that. This is a situation, as the President knows, which creates problems for everyone, but in this case there are also specific responsibilities. The undersigned, my group and others would have wanted, let's say, and need to intervene on the decree-law, but we too were somehow prevented. I say this to rebuild things as they are. Even yesterday, in the explanation of vote, with composure, we recalled the events, we also said that we were all available, for example, for the referendum, to make sure that there was much more information to the citizens and also to make efforts to make the RAI Monitoring Commission aware of the opportunity to make much more available to make this campaign of fair information. Secondly, with regard to the voting methods and the difficulties that we have had and which we continue to have, because of the objective conditions in which we find ourselves, I would like to remind you of the Senate's solution, of which we should give some credit to everyone. The House, where, as you know, there was controversy at the beginning of the pandemic, had found a way of voting that excluded a part of the Members. We, on the other hand, must all thank the Senators Quaestors and the Offices, who have found a solution on this. I want to say that because we have to take note of the work done. The Senate, in fact, through the possibility of voting from the forums, has given the possibility to all senators to be able to exercise their mandate to the full. Then, it is clear that, of course, the system will need to be further refined and implemented. That is why, Mr President, I repeat that it is somewhat unacceptable what happened yesterday. I have opposed it for a long time and I cannot say to others that they must not do it: everyone exercises his mandate and opposes it. However, coming to talk about fraud, I find it absolutely serious. Also because: would we do it to harm ourselves? We must always be very careful about the words used: the words, the statements, the statements, not only in this House, but also outside, in all the broadcasts, which, since last night and also this morning, continue to make the citizens feel that who knows what fraud has happened, giving it, among other things, to the majority. This is very serious, just as it is very serious when presiding. It is a matter of protecting all of us. You have to have respect, because they are forms of guarantee for everyone. Therefore, I say quietly: everyone thinks about the words he uses. Everyone thinks about the words he uses, because words and statements really cause a situation of delight of all the institutions, because it is not that someone comes out in a clear and clean way. I say this because very serious statements have also been made. Let us realize that we are still in a difficult situation. You know perfectly well that, as far as bringing people in, we still have a very difficult transport situation in the country because of the pandemic. We therefore need the sense of responsibility of everyone, where everyone plays their part: those who do the majority do the majority, those who do the opposition do the opposition. At least, however, have respect for the work that we have all tried to do at this time and in these difficult months. You have to be very careful and dose the words you use. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u81	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, of course, since representatives of my group have already spoken, even if we are at the end of the sitting, I do not speak on the purely political issue. At this moment, in fact, I am speaking to highlight, as a matter of record, an issue which has already been highlighted, of the protection of the Presidency, which is the maximum protection of the institution of the Senate. I was pleased to hear, even from the opposition, a separation of the political question, which was a duty. Especially at such a difficult time for the country, when there is also a loss of citizens and where we are a reference, we decided, using all possible instruments, not to close, rightly, the Senate and Parliament and to be present, also for this reason. Really, then, that the invitation is not rhetorical right now. I would like to point out, in defence of the Presidency, that there is a great deal of attention to the use of polemics. This must also be very harsh, but be careful not to trespass. When you even talk about a problem of legality of voting and political and legal actions (because this is reported in the agencies and, in case, you can always deny, but I have reread the agency), we are on another ground. It's not a personal matter, and we can't take it under the table, or say it's okay a little bit, I'd like to say prank it, but I don't want to say it, because it recalls times we don't want to remember and if we remember them, we do it to know that they are definitely closed in a past of this country. A lot of attention, therefore, because when you attack the highest points of the institutions, it is an unreasonably serious moment for the country. We have a great responsibility and I wanted to speak only as a member of the Presidency to say that we all Vice Presidents, whoever has presided, are very careful, because the unity of the Presidency is to safeguard the institution, even before, as the President has pointed out, an issue of institutional and relational education; especially the latter would be desirable, but it cannot be an obligation, while instead honoring these institutions is an obligation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u84	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have clearly listened to and spoken, given that I have also seen my name clearly in the press. I can absolutely subscribe to the seriousness of all the conduct, in the sense that, as you know, I also said that I voted outside, at a moment of excitement because we had just arrived, the doors had just been closed and seeing the opportunity - I say - with great lightness I voted. I am making this statement to apologise to all my colleagues for perhaps this action will have contributed to this kind of confusion and to accentuate a little discontent. However, I would like to give another reading to my statement, saying that it was not isolated, in the sense that I shared it with our Parent Company, which immediately affirmed and shared with me the idea and the intention to make public the error. I therefore simply hope that the souls will be reassembled, that we will continue to cooperate with a view to collaboration and transversality because, apart from personal facts, technical issues and legal issues, we are here for the good of the Italian people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u85	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-232.ana.u86	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.55 p.m.
