ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.22. The Minutes shall be read. Mr GINETTI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 21 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders has defined the new timetable for work. In today's sitting, the President will make the communications, pursuant to Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft budget law, prompting the allocation of the measure that will start the budgetary session. The 5th standing Commission will have to complete its work by 1.30 p.m. tomorrow. Consequently, the reports of the standing committees will have to be submitted in good time. The amendments to the Assembly will have to be tabled within one hour of the time limit set by the Commission. It will then pass to the discussion of the decree-law on the relaunch of the health service of the Calabria Region. Since the Government has announced its intention to raise the question of trust, the Conference of Leaders has established that the discussion on trust is included in the general discussion of the measure. The latter will take place, until its conclusion, in today's sitting, which does not include closing hours. Tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., will take place the replies of the rapporteur and the Government, the vote of the non passage to the articles announced by the Forza Italia Group, the explanations of vote and calls it. After the vote of confidence on the decree-law, around 13:30 will begin the discussion of the bill of budget, according to the following temporal scans. For the general discussion, six hours and thirty-five minutes were allocated on the basis of the Group's requests. The government's response will follow. Once this procedural phase has been completed, the articles of the second section of the draft budget (and any amendments) will be voted on. These votes take precedence over the examination of the first section (Rule 1), pursuant to Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure. As the Government announced its intention to put the question of trust in Article 1 in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the Conference of the Leaders held the relevant discussion. For the discussion on confidence, which will begin on Wednesday 30 December, at 9 a.m., an hour and thirty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you. At the end of the call we will move to the final electronic vote of the bill as a whole. The Commissions will return to meet again on 7 and 8 January 2021, without limitation of subjects related to the epidemiological emergency. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday 12 January 2021, at 4.30 p.m., with ratifications of international agreements defined in the Commission. The Conference of Leaders is convened on the same day from 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new schedule of proceedings until 12 January 2021: [[Monday, December 28, h. 17 - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, on the content of the draft budget law * - Drawing of law n. 2045 - Decree-Law n. 150, Relaunch of the health service of the Calabria region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on January 9, 2021) - Drawing of law n. 2054 - Budget of the State for the financial year 2021 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2021-2023 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) Tuesday 29 " h. 9.30 Wednesday 30 " h. 9 (*) Immediately after the President's communications, the draft budget law will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referent and to the other Commissions in the consultative forum. The budget session will begin from then on.]] [[Tuesday 12 January h. 16.30 - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2045 (Decree-Law No 150, Relaunch of the Health Service of the Calabria Region) (4 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 37' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' PD 21' Mixed 19' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u9	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I should like to say that there has been no particular opposition from the Lega Group in drawing up the calendar that has just been read. At the same time, however, we note with regret that for the first time in the history of the Republic an economic maneuver arrived here at the Senate at second reading on 27 December. This is really dramatic for the democracy of our country, because there will be absolutely no opportunity to discuss anything at all in the Commission. [[Applause]] I would remind you of the many speeches made by some of the majority who were previously in opposition, who argued that at least in a week the measure should be brought to the House and discussed as required by our Rules of Procedure. However, the most dramatic thing - I must add that it does not leave us much of a stupor knowing the government's work now - is that for the first time the President of the Senate - you - announces the allocation of the bill, the budgetary maneuver to the Commission and we already know that the Government will put trust. [[Applause]] Congratulations indeed to this majority! Really good! Congratulations, really! [[Applause]] Finally, I would like to point out the sense of responsibility of the opposition, which also occurred on the issues in the Chamber of Deputies: in order to avoid the provisional exercise, this time we have demonstrated with the facts the true sense of responsibility we have towards the country and the many categories that are suffering at the moment. We do it for them, because you don't deserve it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u10	Precisely because of the pressure on time, the Presidency authorizes the 5th Commission to convene itself during the sitting of the Assembly in stages which do not include voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2045 already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Castellone, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u12	Mr President, the decree-law under consideration, consisting of two heads and ten articles, is an urgent measure for the relaunch of the health service of the Calabria Region (Chapter I) and for the renewal of the elected bodies of the Regions with ordinary statutes (Chapter II). Chapter I, which ranges from Article 1 to Article 7, intervenes in support of the management of the health system of the Calabria Region at the end, on November 3, of the effectiveness of the provisions of Decree-Law No 35 of 2019, previewed in eighteen months from its entry into force (3 May 2019). The intervention is considered the permanent criticality of the Calabrian health system determined by the failure to achieve the economic-financial balance. The rules under consideration, as referred to in Chapter I, shall apply until 11 November 2022 or, as specified by the Chamber, until a period prior to that date, in case of achievement of the objectives referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1. These are the objectives set out in the operational programmes for the continuation of the recovery plan from the deficits of the regional health service. Article 1 sets out the functions of the Commissioner ad acta appointed by the Government, to implement the objectives set out in the operational programmes for the continuation of the plan of return from the deficits of the regional health service of Calabria and to carry out, where delegated, the tasks of structural strengthening of the hospital network of the health service, with the adoption of specific plans of reorganization in order to cope with the emergency Covid and to ensure the implementation of the measures of the decree under consideration. The Commissioner ad acta shall be assisted, in accordance with paragraph 3, by one or more subcommissiars whose number may not exceed three. Paragraph 2 of the same Article 1 concerns the staff, offices and resources that the Calabria Region is required to make available to the Commissioner ad acta. Paragraph 4 provides that the same commissioner shall use the technical and operational support of the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas), through personnel commanded, within the limit of 12 units, or through flexible employment contracts, within the limit of 25 units. In the event of failure by the Region to provide the necessary support, the Commissioner ad acta, after having communicated it to the Council of Ministers, invites the Region to carry out its tasks within the prescribed period (maximum in thirty days) and, if the non-compliance persists, is expected to activate the substitution powers of the State. The following paragraph 4-a provides that in order to guarantee the viability of the essential levels of assistance in the Calabria Region, the Minister of Health, upon the occurrence of the conditions referred to in the following article 6, paragraph 2, on the basis of the needs found by the companies of the Regional Health Service and heard the Commissioner ad acta, authorizes the latter to an extraordinary plan for the recruitment of medical, health and social-health personnel, also for the emergency-emergency sector, using first of all the appropriate rankings in force, in derogation from the limits provided for by the current legislation relating to the charges for the staff of the National Health Service and in compliance with the limit of expenditure of 12 million annual from 2021. Article 2 provides for the appointment of special commissioners for each body of the Health Service of Calabria. The appointment shall be given by the Commissioner to acta after agreement with the Region, as well as with the rector in the case of hospital-university companies. Paragraph 4 of the same Article 2 provides that within ninety days of the appointment, the extraordinary commissioners adopt the business act having as its object the discipline of the organization and the operation of the company, which is subsequently approved by the commissioner ad acta, and approve the company's financial statements relating to the years already concluded. Paragraph 5 defines the replacement procedures for cases of non-compliance with the above deadline, which in any case result, in accordance with paragraph 6, the automatic forfeiture from office and the exclusion of the recognition of the additional fee. Paragraph 7 concerns the procedures for replacing the administrative and health directors of the bodies of the Health Service of the Calabria region. Paragraph 8 provides periodic information from each of the special commissioners to the Conference of Mayors and trade union organizations. Article 3 regulates the procedures for the award of contracts, works and supplies for the bodies of the Regional Health Service of Calabria and the operational programme for the management of the emergency Covid and for the sanitary building. In particular, paragraph 1 regulates the procedures for the assignment of contracts, works and supplies for the entities of the Regional Health Service; paragraph 2 sets a deadline for the preparation of both the operational programme for the management of the emergency Covid and the Triennial Extraordinary Plan for the sanitary building and the technological adaptation of the emergency network, the hospital network and the territorial network; paragraph 3 regulates the implementation of sanitary building projects. To this end, the Commissioner ad acta makes use of the instruments of purchase and negotiation made available by the company Consip. In addition, Commissioner ad acta may delegate the completion of the procedures in question to those special Commissioners. Paragraph 2 provides that the commissioner ad acta will adopt, within thirty days of his appointment, the operational programme for the management of the emergency Covid and define, within sixty days of the appointment, the three-year plan of extraordinary sanitary building and technological adaptation of the emergency network, the hospital network and the regional territorial network. As provided for in paragraph 3, interventions in the field of health building, financed by State resources, are implemented by the Special Commissioner. Article 4 concerns the possible dissolution of individual bodies of the Health Service of Calabria in accordance with the single text of the laws on local authorities, the so-called TUEL. In particular, paragraph 1 provides that in the case of the adoption of the above-mentioned winding-up measures, the Extraordinary Board for the management of the institution, appointed by decree of dissolution of the institution, operates as a guarantee of the essential levels of assistance, in coordination with the aforementioned Commissioner ad acta, as well as in accordance with the objectives of the plan of return from the deficit in the health sector and with the objectives of the plans of redevelopment of health services. Paragraph 2 provides that the same extraordinary commission for the management of the institution uses, for the technical-sanitary questions, a subject of proven professionalism and experience in the matter of health organization or business management, appointed by the Minister of the Interior in agreement with the Minister of Health. Pursuant to paragraph 3, the Extraordinary Commission may make temporary use, in a position of command or posting, of experts in the public health sector appointed by the Prefect, on a proposal from the Minister of Health. Paragraph 4, again for the hypotheses of unsolved health care companies, leaves to the said extraordinary commission for the management of the agency the adoption of the business act and the approval of the company budgets relative to the exercises already concluded. Paragraph 1 and paragraph 1-a of Article 5 concern respectively the collaboration of the Finance Guard Corps and the Revenue Agency with the Commissioner ad acta. Paragraph 1 of Article 6 provides that, in order to support the interventions to strengthen the health service of Calabria, it is set aside, from the national resources destined to the implementation of the projects of priority in the field of health, a sum of 60 million euros in favor of the Region itself for each of the years 2021, 2022 and 2023. Paragraph 2 of Article 7 provides that the commissioner ad acta sends to the Minister of Health and the Minister of Economy and Finance every six months a report on the state of implementation of the measures referred to in this Chapter 1, also with reference to the activity carried out by extraordinary commissioners. Chapter 2 (Articles 8-10), finally, said urgent provisions for the renewal of the elected bodies of the regions with ordinary statutes. Article 8 lays down the time limits for elections to be held for the renewal of elected bodies. In particular, paragraph 1 provides for the election of the elected bodies to take place not before the 90th day and not later than the 150th day following the date of the occurrence of the circumstances which make it necessary to renew or on the Sunday included in the six further days. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u13	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u14	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is the next step to the first Calabria decree of our Minister of Health Grillo to relaunch the health service of the Region. It is useless to hide it: the citizens of Calabria for too many years have been suffering from an offer of social and health services of an unacceptable level. Therefore, focusing on this situation is not only necessary, but absolutely necessary for the Government and Parliament. It is a very delicate moment for the country: the emergency Covid has violently exposed all the fragility of our National Health System. So we can no longer waste time; we must intervene with extraordinary, concrete and decisive measures. The decree-law today under discussion in the Senate goes in this direction; both the reasons and the objectives are absolutely acceptable. I therefore believe that this decree-law goes beyond Calabria and is also a gesture of great attention for the whole of South Italy. I come from Sicily, precisely from Sciacca, where I have been practicing the medical profession for thirty-three years, precisely in the emergency room of the hospital of my city. I therefore know very well all the dysfunctions and the criticalities, because I have lived them in the field and I have shared them every day and every minute with the patients, who all too often, despite our great efforts as a medical staff, have been faced with unacceptable situations, caused by obvious flaws of our health system. We are all committed to giving better health to our country and to Italian citizens. In fact, in these months we have approved a considerable number of decrees of extraordinary importance for the health sector, with two basic objectives: to give back centrality to the Public Health Service with a series of large investments and characterize social and health care with a basic principle, that is territoriality. This considerable institutional commitment began well before the arrival of the emergency Covid, a clear sign of how much Italian health care needed a profound reform, in the name of innovation and the greater listening to the main needs of the citizen. In fact, there was a strong need for radical transformations in too many parts, starting from our public hospitals, which are no longer sufficient to satisfy all health needs, passing through the medical and nursing staff, in chronic lack of human resources, and finally with inadequate technological supports, which have been stopped for decades. Our National Health Service, huge and historic wealth of our country, has suffered a certain slowdown in recent years. It was therefore absolutely necessary and indispensable - and still is - to take a step forward, starting from here, from the very heart of the institutions, that is, from that place where legislative reforms must be conceived and approved, that can allow the territorial services to conform to levels more adapted to the real health needs of citizenship. This is what we have been doing for a long time, even with the decree-law today at our examination, to which you go our full and convinced support. Certainly this wind of health reforms will have to continue, if possible, with even greater sharing. Among the measures to be highlighted is the forecast that the Ministry of Health can authorise the Commissioner ad acta to adopt a plan of extraordinary recruitment of medical, health and social health personnel, also for the emergency and emergency sector, using first of all the appropriate rankings in force, with an annual expenditure of 12 million euros, starting from 2021. We know that health cuts of EUR 37 billion have been made over the last ten years. We know that the Movimento 5 Stars, since it arrived to the Government, has reversed this route, we know that in the last year we have allocated almost 12 billion euros, but we also know that health, with the reform of Title V of the Constitution, is in the hands of the Regions. It is a model that has shown all its limits and that will have to be rethought already in the coming months, with a deep reflection, which will have to involve all the parties, namely the Government, the Parliament, the Regions themselves, the local and regional authorities and the social partners. There will therefore be a need for wide-ranging and widespread consultation so that a truly citizen-friendly health service model can be achieved. This will be the real leap in quality to buy, avoiding the fragmentation of services and the disorientation of patients, instead aiming at an optimization of economic resources. In order to do this, first and foremost, hospitalisation should be reduced, where not necessary, and scientific research should also be aimed at making use of more important funding and health prevention that can develop through increasingly advanced and modern instruments. And again, we will have to aim for care for the patient, who starts from his home, that is from the most expensive and comfortable place, in a complete path, that can develop starting from the basic doctor, thus avoiding unnecessary transfers in hospital, that subject the patient and the family to a stress, that certainly involves negative repercussions on the psychophysical level. This fundamental requirement has been fully met in this legislature, with important measures in the sign of concreteness and listening to the needs of the community. For example, in the decree-law re-launched, the Government provided for the recruitment of 9,600 nurses, establishing the figure of the family nurse, but not all the Regions provided for these recruitments. I am not talking about family nurses at random, because it is precisely in order to establish this figure that I considered it very useful and appropriate to present a specific bill. Now that the Government has intervened, however, it is necessary that these nurses really become part of the Territorial Health Services, on which we of the Movimento 5 Stars have been insisting for years. The health of the future will have to be based on territorial medicine, in order to lighten hospitals and make sure that nosocomi are addressed only for emergencies and diseases, which really need a hospitalization. This is the great challenge that awaits us and that we are ready to meet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u15	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u16	Mr President, the so-called Calabria- bis decree represents the obvious defeat of the commissionerial policies implemented in recent years and the Government's decision to adopt yet another decree-law is, in my opinion, in clear contrast to the constitutional principles repeatedly reaffirmed by the Council. The latter, in ruling, with the judgment n. 233 of 2019, on the constitutionality relative to the first Calabria decree, affirmed that the provision of emergency normative constituted a normative intervention not ordinary, but indeed extraordinary, that it was intended to face with determination and speed the attempt to ferry the Calabrian health towards normality, endowing the commissioner to acta of powers for the implementation of the objectives of the plan of return and above all to remove the systematic violation of the obligations deriving from the principles of the public function, the management of the personnel out of control and the various differences between regional political summits and the commissioner structure, with the result of a grid of the LEA worse of every other Region. These assumptions would not have served to appoint a new commissioner, expected that the Calabria Region, following the elections of 2020, has undertaken a virtuous path, aimed at bringing the management of the regional health service back to the rates of efficiency and effectiveness. For this reason, the issuing of a new decree-law has seriously damaged the regional competences in terms of health, which are violated not only temporarily and exceptionally contracted because of the previous regional inertia or in any case the inadequate exercise of competences, as affirmed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. In recent weeks we have seen an unlikely theater related to the appointment of a commissioner. In Calabria there was already a professional, wanted by President Jole Santelli, to whom I address a moved thought, because today he would be fifty-two years old. [[Applause]] However, we are witnessing the failure of the previous measure, which has seen the inability of the Commissioner's management to achieve the expected results. The debt has increased and the LEAs have deteriorated further. In the end the prefect Guido Longo arrived and we hope that we can finally see a positive epilogue of this grotesque story, which once again demonstrated the inability and unprovedity of the Government that decided all this. Commissioner's management of Calabrian health has been going on for ten years, during which the quality of the services provided has deteriorated, the journeys of the Calabrian hope (i.e. passive mobility) have increased and have progressively seen an emptying and abandonment of hospitals and the lack of important figures such as doctors and nurses due to the blockage of the turn over. After ten years the path to follow was to be another. A few days ago the Court of Auditors, in its report, noted that there is a chasm that has been feeding from year to year for more than ten years and that is filled with the payment of the rates by the Calabrian citizens who, in the face of the many financial sacrifices, do not enjoy adequate services. In the report, the Court of Auditors recalls that it has for years noted the pathologies of Calabrian health, which, as we said, did not approve the budgets. The latest official acts of the budget date back to 2014. Ten years after the adoption of the Re-entry Plan - i.e. at the end of 2019 - the health deficit has risen to around €225 million. The accounting judiciary recalls that the score of the LEA still betrays numerous anomalies and shows that the health deficit, unlike that accumulated by a municipality, does not endanger the levels of public services of a territory, but undermines the realization of the essential levels of assistance for all the inhabitants of a Region, endangering the protection of the right to health of the Calabrians. In the light of this ruthless report, I wonder what the ratio has been that has led not only to the renewal of the Commissariat, but to the extension of its time limits to twenty-four months. It was necessary to have confidence and bet on the regional government and citizens, but, perhaps, being a center-right government - which will win again the next elections - the national government wants to concentrate all the power and armchairs available. And to think that on September 13, President Jole Santelli sent a heartfelt letter to the government in which he specifically asked to be able to deal with the emergency. Evidently, however, the government, as usual, has been a merchant's ear. [[Applause]] The aim of the measure in our examination is to ensure that the LEAs are respected and that economic and financial objectives are respected, but governance with specific managerial skills for the health sector is necessary, with a vision that is not only acquired with a busy chair, but with specialised training. At this point, it remains to highlight three priorities that must be pursued: the first, involving all institutional levels (state, regions and companies) and overcoming conflicts; the second, in the face of the extraordinary recruitment of staff, to build a strong motivation and corporate identity, oriented to the objectives that must be communicated and verified periodically (of course, all the amendments in this regard that we have tabled in the Health Commission, even today, have been rejected); the third, to verify the needs, to which a system of measurement of performance must be flanked, with few reliable and consistent indicators. I would like to stress that Calabria is only the tip of an iceberg in the health landscape of our country and, in the light of the experience lived and that we live of the pandemic, we know that the protection of health is also linked to the protection of the economy and well-being of a country: other than citizens' incomes to the mobs! And let me reiterate that the 9 billion earmarked by the recovery fund for health care is a ridiculous thing, unless the government has already decided - well! - to take the 37 billion ESM. To conclude, I would like to highlight two unacceptable aspects which have been deliberately overlooked: the first concerns the power that Commissioner Arcuri will once again have in managing public funds without being controlled and without being accused of anything thanks to the legal shield that the health emergency has granted him. Well, I find it scandalous that the Government continues to entrust Commissioner Arcuri with white delegations on virtually all human slips. [[Applause]] , without having a proper model of efficiency, transparency and timeliness. In this decree-law are entrusted to Arcuri - and, through it, to Invitalia - 440 million euros for health building and technological modernization. As you know, the Commissioner, in view of his role, enjoys the criminal shield, the shield that has so far been denied to doctors and health workers in the trenches since the first days of this pandemic. [[Applause]] and even now the subject of numerous attacks in hospitals by exasperated citizens. This will mean that Arcuri will have enormous resources without the Calabrians first knowing why they will be used. Moreover, the latest events must also be considered because Arcuri is the Commissioner for the wrong masks, ghost masks, competitions for wheelchairs (arrived at closed schools), of which we have been asking for months, with parliamentary questions, to have the honour of knowing the price [[Applause]] Then, of the commissions and of the 70 million to some of his friends will take care of the procurator of the Republic, but let's talk about the syringes, those of the type luer-lock. Has Commissioner Arcuri been told, firstly, that they are useless because the rest of the world has bought them normal and, secondly, that they are needleless? At this point I'd like to know if you ordered the needles as well. Any doctor knows that a luer-lock syringe is delivered without needle; and needles? Well, we'll see. We wear them, I wear them all the time. The second shameful aspect is the well-served given to seventy workers in Agenas, who precisely by this decree-law had had the extension of contracts for two months, with the promise that after ten years of precariousness they would see their professionalism rewarded. It is still deafening the silence of the institutions in front of these seventy families of workers who will be home in three days' time. You've stabilized everyone, but these seventy workers are bothering you. [[Applause]] , because they are professional professionals who work in Agenas and who bother those who only want to have paperweights. An administration that has been derailed and exonerated from its functions for at least six months in full health emergency and that continues to be mortified with the loss of seventy precarious with a scientific and technical know-how ten years. I wonder - and I should ask everyone - what was functional the extension of the organic plant provided for by the decree-law August, which did not take into account the historical precariousness: perhaps only to increase the managerial positions... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .with one executive every seven employees. Seems a little too much for anyone. The government with the draft budget law did not follow the assurances that these seventy workers had had, but I believe that here too the prosecutor of the Republic will go ahead, as the current commissioner will be denounced by the precarious of Agenas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u17	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u18	Mr President, today we are about to adopt the second decree-law on Calabrian health. Unfortunately, my land has been subject to a health plan for more than ten years. Many citizens fail to take advantage of the constitutional right to care and are forced into health migration, which also leads to increased spending and thus a risk of over-budgeting. Unfortunately, as many as 300 million per year of the Calabrian health budget go to other regions to compensate for the deficiencies in the guarantee of an efficient health system of the Calabria Region; health system that unfortunately is extremely lacking. Several government commissioners have taken turns to deal with the situation, which has been seriously compromised by too many years of mismanagement. It is not by chance that we find two ASPs for Mafia infiltrations, that of Reggio Calabria and that of Catanzaro. Not everyone will know or remember that the four-year budgets of the ASP of Reggio Calabria have disappeared and have been replaced by oral budgets. Not everyone will perhaps know that the government commission has concerned only the economic-financial aspect, but the management one has always remained in the hands of the Calabria Region, and the Governors who have followed have always confirmed the same people to the leadership of the ASPs, just as they have always confirmed premiality for all the managers who, after many years of this management, have brought the index of the LEAs to 136, that is, 24 points below the thresholds of acceptability. What are the main causes of the breakdown? We need to look at the causes, and not judge the effects and give responsibility to those who are trying to remedy them today. The public-private sick relationship, for which there was recourse to continuous budget overruns for private structures affiliated with the complacency of health managers and with consequent litigation and new burdens for the budget of the ASPs; the often useless and obsolete supplies, paid out of market lists and cleared even several times; client recruitment by the politicians on duty: all this has suffered an inevitable setback with the government commission, but it has also resulted in restrictions not indifferent on the right to care of the Calabrians, which have suddenly been seen to increase the cost of the performance of the diagnostics and impose limitations in the prescriptions (this has been an effect, unfortunately). Today for the second time we vote on a decree for Calabrian health. We have made the Commissioner's structure more effective also in the area of the management of the health service thanks to its administrative and health-related enhancement. The previous commissioner structures have always operated in a sort of institutional desert and in contrast with the Governor on duty, deprived of any support from the Department of Health of the Calabria Region. Therefore, a single Commissioner, even when technically supported by a sub-commissary under the previous Calabrian decree, has never been sufficient to assist the devastated Calabrian health system because there are constitutional constraints within which we must clearly move through the reform of Title V of 2001. Now the commissioner will be supported by a structure of up to three commissioners, other subcommissiars, by a minimum quota made available by the Calabria Region of other 25 elements, plus the support of staff of Agenas. It has been given willingness to carry out an extraordinary health and social-health employment plan for which a budget of 12 million euros has been allocated per year since 2021 to be allocated to our Region. In addition, an additional 180 million has been allocated for the return plan for certified debts, but I do not know how many are not certified because of the missing budgets and we hope that the Commissioner will now come to the head of this inextricable tangle. 18.07) (Following GRANATO). All this indicates the need for state supervision of regional health systems and the need for health management not to be taken over by policy, but on the basis of public competition and meritorious criteria and not political affiliation. It is also crucial to review the allocation parameters of funds for financing regional health services on the basis not of the weighed population but also of the comorbidities, which certainly involve higher management costs. It is essential that the National Health System can be supported through the use of public facilities to cover all needs. Private structures that have mismanaged resources and risk being closed because they have operated by inflating the expenditure of the regional health service, if it is currently essential to ensure the continuity of the care service for certain health services, must be advertised. This is the recipe to get out of the dramatic situation in which today is found not only the health of Calabrian, but the health of many other Italian regions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u19	Senator Magorno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u20	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, I will go against the tide of the majority by committing myself only to the things I will say about the Calabria decree. Never before do I feel the pride and responsibility of being mayor and, at the same time, as Senator of the Calabrian Republic, I can only feel mortified and disappointed by a Government that, in fact, seems to have forgotten and abandoned Calabria, which is increasingly considered the Cinderella of Italy. Once again, Istat tells us about a South and Calabria stripped of services in which the last continue to remain on the margins, immersed in a struggle for survival, where primary rights, such as those at work, health and education, cannot find full realization. I am only one of the many mayors of Calabria who daily wear the tricolor band with that passion and that determination indispensable to face the difficult administrative path and who in trenches, day and night, engage to the maximum without the necessary resources to which they are entitled, but with all the strength and energy they possess, doing what is possible and also the impossible for their citizens who see in them the only, true and fundamental point of reference to which to cling and turn for every need, especially in this period. Today, more than yesterday, we mayors are struggling to balance the difficult balance between public demand and public supply. We measure ourselves with small and big problems of our people, we listen to their despair, we try to rework it in solutions and, above all, we never turn to the other side. We are always the ones to welcome the anxieties of every mother, the concerns of every father, the worries of every boy, the aspirations and projects of life of every young person and to gather the cry of help of men, women, old people, young people and, unfortunately, children, forced to leave Calabria and face the health exodus to the hospitals of the Centre-North, a personal and family Calvary, to be cured by oncology diseases, undergo specialized visits and surgical operations. That was the point and the reason for my amendment to the so-called Calabria Decree, in which I proposed to set up within the health structure a body made up of mayors, with powers of control and of proposal. In fact, however, this amendment - not only my amendment because it has the voice, face and soul of so many Calabrian mayors - has been totally and deprived of the part where mayors were expected to be directly involved in the chain of command of the police structure of health. I have spent a great deal of time making this prediction part of the legislation, convinced that local administrations are the only ones who know the real health services in the territories and, therefore, able to contribute to a concrete resolution of the many open issues in Calabrian health. Unfortunately, this rule has been inopportunely removed and this should concern the entire delegation of the Calabrian senators, at least those who belong to the center-left and to the majority of the government. These are the themes in which the quality of the management groups is measured, of those who nourished the ambition to govern Calabria and of those who really care about the destiny of the Region. "The Calabrians want to be spoken," wrote Corrado Alvaro, and listened. At this moment it is neither spoken nor listened to; I say it with great suffering, especially looking at the debate that is taking hold in Calabria in view of the regional elections, with a confrontation completely detached from reality, devoid of content and aimed only at self-preservation. The past teaches us that a conservative political class, worried about defending the status quo, is only able to write the worst pages of our regional and national history. The future urges us to send out a signal of great maturity and coherence, demonstrating that we have in the heart and mind only and exclusively the good and growth of our nation, of which Calabria is also part, a land of millenarian history, which coincides with that of humanity, where we breathe the soul of a civilization that lives in a culture that is history, Magna Grecia, Italy. A region that is already on its knees economically and socially, risks thus receiving the final blow with a hollow and empty decree that fails to guarantee the constitutional right to health, to the levels of assistance, prevention and care equal to the other Regions, to bridge the deep gap between South and North, to repay the existing debts, to contemplate resources for investments in human capital and technology. Therefore, in order to protect the rights of the Calabrian people to the full, I am obliged to vote no to the so-called Calabrian decree. If I voted on the text of the decree, as modified in the parliamentary work of the House, I would betray myself, my people, my roots, my history, my ideals: those ideals that I have chosen to serve since I was fourteen years old, putting not only the face, but also the heart and acting for good in the exclusive interest of the community. The measure at our examination was to represent a turning point for health in Calabria; in reality it is an anaemic norm, which does not cure the evils caused by the harmful management of the regional governments before and, from 2010, of the Calabrian Commissariat, of an irreconcilable administration, wordy, superficial and without compass of the Italian State. The decree-law was to exalt the role of the mayors, and instead humiliates them, sending them at the same time to the front line with their bare hands. In addition, the current pandemic has greatly increased the weight of those who have the honour and the burden of wearing the tricolor belt, reserved not for parliamentarians, not ministers, not the President of the Council, but only for the first citizens of our martyred communities. In this decree-law is not valued the fundamental function of the real and authentic representatives of the territory, as I had asked loudly in representation of all the mayors of Calabria. On the contrary, it also removes what Legislative Decree No. 502 of 1992 and subsequent amendments had foreseen. An example for all: the preventive opinion is actually emptied in the appointment of the directors-general to be expressed by the Conference of Mayors. The decree-law does not provide in a precise and precise manner the specific requirements, relevant to the sector, that must possess the regional commissioner; it does not identify the titles that must have the components of its chain of command; it moves on the subtle line of unconstitutionality, because it profoundly affects the delicate balances that hold the state and regionalism together. The one under consideration is a decree-law that represents a break-up of the institutional powers in charge of the representative of the Calabrian community, that is, the President of the Region; a constitutional break-up that comes from those who fought for no reason against the constitutional reform, by virtue of the supposed values that previously legitimately defended and today wants to betray in a creeping and silent way. It is true that the health situation is emerging in Calabria; however, the State has been governing and administering this situation for more than ten years and cannot imagine dumping on Calabria, both politically and economically, the financial disasters. In the decree-law in question there is indeed an attempt at economic intervention, but it is timid and insufficient. The state must shoulder the entire deficit of the last ten years, because it is the result of the management of the state itself, through its commissioners. [[Applause]] With the measure in question we want to govern Calabria forever through health care; in fact, we establish a principle that even the modern legal civilization advanced abhors: the end penalty never. That is, the end of the police station in Calabria never. I grew up in the school of politics, which starts from below and is made with dignity, coherence and transparency, in a small section of the Socialist Party, in the square, for people and among people. That's why I say no. This is the way to be and to make politics that I have always believed, inspired by a tenacious and courageous woman, a great example of passion and selfless civil, cultural and social commitment to his land in defense of the rights of citizens, in particular of the weakest sections of the population: the only woman in Italy, out of 625 presidents of the local health units (USL), to occupy in the eighties the role of president of a USL of Calabria; a woman who in her eight years of activity in health has worked so much to ensure services adequate to the protection of health and respond to the demands. Then that woman succeeded, unlike today, when the right to health is guaranteed with cuts and closures of hospital facilities, which paradoxically worsen health efficiency and increase the public deficit. That extraordinary woman is a Calabrian, Marianna Presta, my mother, an authentic interpreter of true values and the highest ideals of socialist tradition [[Applause]] , which embodies in its history the authentic politics, the one that puts the person and love for polis at the centre; that is the politics in which I recognize myself and to which I am proud to belong, with which I have always worked and with which I am carrying out my parliamentary activity and with which I am managing as mayor. However, if, as it would seem, politics is becoming anything else, with the bitterness of those who have believed and believe in the value of the institutions, with the civil and moral responsibility that belongs to my culture and political coherence as a citizen, as a free and democratic man, I will assess my withdrawal from political activity at the end of the parliamentary term and my mandate as mayor. I would definitely feel uncomfortable inside such a Machiavellian and arid political container. Happy holidays to all of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u21	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u22	Mr President, I will be much shorter than my previous colleagues, because then there will also be time for the explanations of final vote to explain the reasons behind the Group to which I belong to support this decree-law. However, the comments I have heard so far give rise to two or three points which I would like to stress. Firstly, there was talk of elements of unconstitutionality. Beyond the fact that the preliminary question of constitutionality has also been withdrawn - which in itself seems to me to mean that even those who had presented it probably were very convinced of the goodness of the elements of constitutionality present - the Court nevertheless reminded us, on the occasion of the last decree-law, that, when there are problems related to essential services to citizens, it is normal that the State should intervene. It is precisely our Constitution that guarantees this element and that, compared to a subject of concurrent matter, when we are not able to guarantee those essential services and above all that are equal throughout the national territory, a State, which is father and not stepfather, tries to ensure that the citizen is not of series A or of series B, but that, wherever he is born and alive, he can have the same quality of care. This is not the case today: we have to tell ourselves. We all see this, and not only in Calabria, where there is a particular situation, not only in relation to an element of health accounts that do not work and to a question of scarce human and non-human resources (but, in fact, with reference to all the efficiency that would be needed); but there is also one element, which we cannot pick up in this House, which sees a not positive connection between the political world, that of Calabrian health and malavitous infiltrations. We have seen it several times over the past few years, even in the national chronicles. It is something that I believe must push and lead to the external police station. The more elements of nature, contemporaneousness and strange relationships in the territory, the more important it is for someone who has a third party to come to manage accounts and situations. [[Comments]] Yes, for ten years, Senator, in which she was also in the government, with the political force of which she was part before changing, and years in which I remember that, at least the last two decrees, were approved by two different majorities. Probably, this too should make us reflect on the fact that, rather than dedicating ourselves to political polemics or to necessity, from Calabrian (not being, I am more free, from this point of view), to show the territory that defends the interests of the small piece of country that is represented, we should have, perhaps, the ability to realize that there is one more shot to be taken. There is a need to restore dignity to Calabrian citizens who do not have a political color. We must not make it a political issue, but we should all try - with due institutional cooperation, in which the Government must play its part in relation to other bodies and other institutions - to return to Calabria the health it deserves. This is the fundamental element for which we feel we support this decree-law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Calabria is not a trivial land. Only if we keep this assessment in mind will it be possible, even on the subject that we are discussing and dealing with today, to come up with ideas and proposals to overcome the crisis. In the days leading up to this debate everything was felt and the opposite of everything. There is no doubt that health care in Calabria has had a troubled affair, because contradictions, economic difficulties, the broken social fabric, the fragility of production, even the conditioning of organized crime and the laces and laces of the past have a specific weight absolutely negative on the present. All this, as has been pointed out, has led to ten years of commissioning, with results far from upbuilding. The approach of the commissioners - sent by the government and not by the Calabrian people - was, at best, accountantistic and this without considering that health, as is known, is a right not only constitutional, but that belongs to the natural ones of every human being. These cuts have translated into a vulnus, for which policy is responsible, and into a depletion of the health supply, which deserves the widest and deepest censorship. It is also true that the debt of health care, before the Commission, had reached levels of guard no longer sustainable, but the intervention of the state, what you still want today, has only aggravated the situation in Calabria, because in the logic of the commissioning there is something that does not fit and it is precisely the approach. On the one hand, cuts are made on cuts, which condemn Calabrian patients to an ever-increasing health migration, and on the other hand, in case of need, the Calabrian health system has shown weaknesses that do not allow it to face the difficulties of all Calabrian patients. The judgment on the Commissariat can only be negative. The Commissioners, especially in a sensitive area such as health care, only make sense if they are provisional and foreordained to reform and development processes and, over the years, none of this has been seen. The various commissioners have been the expression of partisan plunderings, oriented not by the Cencelli manual, which also had a logic, but by logic of power for power, fed by parties and partymen who make of the inconsistency their natural figure. [[Applause]] The result of all this is in the eyes of everyone: Commissioners with little, if nothing, knowledge of their role, who have unintentionally attempted to transform the tragedy in progress into Italian comedy. There are the dead, however, those of the Covid and those of a health and hospital system now on their knees, to remind us that unfortunately it is not a comedy, but absolutely a tragedy. Yet the Government, one year after the previous Calabria decree, has decided to insist and renew for another two years an instrument that has already proved to be bankrupt. [[Applause]] We are faced with a resounding paradox: it is as if one decided to cure a person who ingested poison with other poison. This is what is happening now in Calabria and now the responsibility is all yours. It was not enough for you the squalid theater of the many commissioners appointed by you, who represented health care in Calabria; the Government was not enough for the manifest inconsistency and/or inability of General Cotticelli, whom you appointed, who did not know that he had to present the plan Covid; it was not enough for him the Zuccatelli negator, also appointed by you, who minimized the use of the mask. [[Applause]] Not even the ridiculous ride of names you staged, which followed for about a month, with the Calabrian citizens dismayed, as if fear and fears related to the emergency by Covid were not enough. Finally, the government, even when it comes to public health, has found a compromise on the name of the current Commissioner Longo. I say right away that I had the pleasure of meeting him, because he was prefect in my city. He is a servant of the State, a man of integrity and a figure of absolute thickness; he is a former supercop and a former prefect who gave lustre to our institutions. Unfortunately, however, we continue on the wrong path taken years and years ago: Longo does not have the expertise to administer a sensitive sector such as health. [[Applause]] Health care is too complicated to be entrusted to people who know nothing about health care. Unfortunately, the appointment of Longo is the result of the historic prejudice against Calabria, the same prejudice for which Calabria is not a social, political and economic issue, but remains only a criminal issue and criminal issues must be resolved with the help of law enforcement. In fact, in recent years in Calabria no longer count the appointments of former generals of the Carabinieri or of the Guardia di Finanza at the top of the regional institutions. Now we have an ex-police at health care, as if ex-General Cotticelli wasn't enough. However, what has happened in Calabria over the last few months has shown that the health disaster and the responsibility for the debacle of health is not of the Calabrians, nor of the Calabrian political class, but of the Commissioners appointed for ten years to this side by the National Government. [[Applause]] , a government that, as I said before, renewed an administrative formula invented by the former Minister Grillo, when he presented the infamous first Calabria decree. We at Forza Italia are therefore absolutely opposed to this decree-law. Just as Jole Santelli had asked, who greeted and embraced in whatever part is now [[Applause]] , we agree with the proposal to call for the end of the Commissariat, because Calabria can no longer be colonised. I congratulate Senator Magorno for his speech and for the intellectual honesty that distinguished him. You haven't gotten your hands on inequality. The most important thing is that Calabria, also from the economic point of view, must be treated like all the other regions of Italy and instead you continue not to consider this aspect. In Calabria there is not only a need for legality; legality must be accompanied by the competences in this area, those which you have also denied us this time. [[Applause]] If not, everything will remain as it is and Calabria will always be a criminal issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u25	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u26	Mr President, it seemed to us that this was an opportunity to be seized in the name of the ever-so-called - and in substance always refused - institutional collaboration between the majority and opposition in order to overcome the most important shortcomings of a measure which, having nothing ideological, could be an ideal opportunity to accept our strategic and programmatic contribution to the construction of the highway suitable to ferry the health of Calabria from the backwardness - caused by more than ten years of police stations - to the future, change of paradigm impossible, if we do not invest in multidisciplinary specialized training able to curb the health mobility of Calabrian citizens also for simple ordinary interventions towards border regions and not only in the oncology area and the high complexity. Because if the resources are finalized only to the recruitment of staff, without the necessary technological and training support - hence the need for the second opinion support specialist and telemedicine - and without overcoming the training funnel with the new contractual models of training and specialized practice, you will never get the results that are declared in the intentions. [[Applause]] It is clear that only the combined training and care arrangements, with targeted investments in technological adaptation, young levers, enhancement of skills and knowledge in a system of second opinion support-teaching hospital and with a training network open also to non-university structures, can concretely and in a reasonable time bridge the gap between the current state and what is necessary for the protection of the health rights of Calabrian citizens in Calabria [[Applause]] , reset the inconveniences of health trips that, in addition to being expensive, are also anxious. Amendment 6.0.1, which we advocated, would have started this reform process, which would have provided for the use of hospitals of high specialty, translational mission in the field of biomedicine, in order to implement the concept of subsidiarity in solidarity in health which is essential for the modernisation of our entire system. [[Applause]] This, with a specific role also of the Institutes of Hospitalization and Scientific Care (IRCCS) in the diagnosis of quality and therapeutic continuity with a high degree of competence, according to the model of the virtual hospital for chronic care integrated capillaryly, to the service and support of deeply critical contexts such as Calabria and for the relaunch of the entire National Health Service at discounted costs, giving more and spending less. That is to say: investing in training, innovation and technology, guaranteeing sustainability in a universalistic key of our national health system and not just undifferentiated assumptions. But the idea of transposing something that comes from oppositions, though shared in substance, is obviously not part of your way of interpreting the institutional mission. [[Applause]] , careless that you are not making a fool of the opposition, but you are doing the evil of Calabria and Italy all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u27	Senator Auddino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulty facing the Calabria region is before everyone's eyes. It is clear to everyone how tortuous the path that led to the appointment of the new Commissioner for Regional Health has been. We cannot hide it, ladies and gentlemen: the renewal of the Commissioner's management has been a painful and difficult choice, but it is still necessary to deal with a truly extra-ordinary situation, in the full sense of the word. It is not a question of ordinary administration; it is not a question of revising in some way the records of the accounts (which, moreover, in the ASP to which I belong, has been oral for many years); it is not a question of tidying up some offices; it is a matter of dealing with the scandal of hospitals that have been initiated and never concluded, of supplies paid two or more times (as revealed by recent investigations, journalistic and judicial), of closed departments due to financial cuts affecting other governments, certainly not ours, but of those who spoke earlier and is today among the opposition benches. [[Applause]] So I don't take politics lessons from them. And this is how the first commission was born in Calabria with the governor of Forza Italia Scopelliti in 2010; and that is how in Calabria now, we are in the eleventh year, it has become necessary to extend this commission. In Calabria care risks becoming a luxury, if it is not already for some, or even a lucrative deal for others. This, once again, makes the Commission necessary. This has helped to create a vicious circle, so that Calabrian citizens, out of necessity or distrust, turn to care, to other regions that will then have to receive a substantial reimbursement from the Calabrian Regional Health Service, already dramatically indebted. This is over €300 million a year of passive mobility of money from Calabrians to other regions, which could and should serve for Calabrians. Why not use this money (this is the challenge) to improve performance and cure yourself in Calabria? It's not an easy operation, I know it's not an easy operation, we all know it. But we must make every effort to achieve this goal; it will certainly not be the salvific intervention of a man alone in command, of an extraordinary commissioner, of a magistrate or of any institutional figure, even if it is high, to heal, alone, the dramatically difficult situation of my region. For this reason it is necessary that the Commissioner, as the Decree-Law Calabria- bis provides, is in a position to surround himself with a group of collaborators and to create his own staff. This includes the decree-law that we are preparing to vote on, because it allows the Commissioner to use the support of Agenas (up to 25 collaborators), as well as the possibility of using the collaboration of the Finance Guard, as well as the Revenue Agency. All positive elements, so I wonder why someone decides not to vote for it. It will be a long, difficult path, perhaps even dangerous for the interests that will necessarily touch things. But it is a necessary path, ladies and gentlemen, and obliged, to restore to my land dignity and constitutional right to care. At the same time, the perpetrators of the disaster will have to be punished. It will also be a necessary path to restore dignity to those doctors, those good doctors, those nurses and those paramedics who in these difficult years (including Covid) have continued to work in Calabria and have remained there, often despite everything and despite politics. They are workers who, even outside of all administrative or career gratification, have maintained and still maintain what good still offers the Calabrian regional health service. Men and women of good will, who do their duty simply because it is right to do so. Before any further consideration, ladies and gentlemen, all of us, however, should first of all remember those who, as best they could, have kept this regional health system up. Yes, because politics in the past has been absent in the guarantee of assistance, but it has been present where it should not: in the assignment of appointments. For this reason, any intervention of politics, which I like to belong to, must begin with a request for an apology: excuses for not having been there; excuses for allowing this to happen; excuses for not having been effective. Now we have to reverse course. The appointment of Commissioner Guido Longo is certainly not the conclusion but the beginning of a new path, which must lead to the de facto restoration of a regional health system worthy of this name. It will be a long path, as I have said, and it will probably not fail those who try to sabotage it, to maintain the advantage of their status quo, but this path must begin now, immediately and, ladies and gentlemen, it will have to continue as a medium-term objective, beyond the political orientation of those who govern or who will rule the Region, as I have already said in my previous speech in this House, with constant support from the Government, that goes beyond the life of this legislature, if necessary. The government did not back down and handed over to a commissioner the unique and extraordinary solution of such a serious emergency. Article 7 provides that the Commissioner shall send every six months a report on the state of implementation of his measures to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and the President of the Region. This synergy must teach us a lot and it must be a condition shared by everyone, by politicians today and tomorrow, because the citizens to be treated are not from one side or the other, but in need of care and that is all. As such, the policy that represents them must guarantee them a fair chance to take care of themselves within their own region. There is more, ladies and gentlemen: in Article 6 there is also the contribution of solidarity for the Regional Health Service, for the three-year period 2021-2023, however, conditional on the presentation and approval of the operational programme for the continuation of the return plan. This is also good news, but it is not just a matter of funds, ladies and gentlemen, because we will have to spend well. It is not only a question of allocating more money to a specific regional health system, but also of rebuilding an entire administrative body, a system that allows, first of all, effective and truthful reporting of the funds spent and reimbursements to the services. The time for oral accounts is over: I say this in this House, so that everyone listens well, even in my own area. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the pandemic, it is not acceptable or acceptable that there should be whole, incomplete or empty hospital facilities, because they have never been tested, while there are those who think they should build others. Building only to build - and not to cure - is not acceptable. How many times has our country been hit by this misconception (if not a crime)? However, the people of Calabria cannot wait any longer: they have already waited so long, too long, and those who have not been able to do so have gone away. For this reason, we take immediate action, with the decree-law under consideration, with the recruitment by way of derogation of medical, health and social-health personnel. The administrative emergency cannot and must not put health care into the background. Thus, while on the one hand financial management is being put in hand, on the other hand we are not waiting any longer and immediately we are putting new forces and energies into the field, which can support the population at this difficult time and which must be the staff on which to rebuild the new regional health care. We separate the deficit from the management of health care and we take care of our fathers, grandparents and children in Calabria, ensuring the essential levels of assistance (LEA). I would ask the President whether I can still have 30 seconds to finish my speech. The common people in the lane will not meet the regional commissioner, but will have to find a new nurse, will have to see an extra cardiologist or a consultory that adds one day of reception, because a new healthcare assistant has been added. This will have to see the people and this is the new that citizens will have to find in relation to past managements. This, only this, will give people the perception of a true reversal of course: not our slogans, not our promises, not our statements, but the facts. For these facts we will be judged and not for what we have said. A short time ago, some of my colleagues, I think of the Forza Italia Group, were angry with the Commissioners and this Government, but the problem is not the Commissioners or this Government. On the other hand, we must understand the reasons why the Commissioners were decided, the first of which was more than ten years ago. Do I say that we must make a revolution? Maybe someone thought I was talking about this, but I didn't. No revolution, but there is a need for pure and simple normality: what the citizens of Calabria and the one I invoke in this House, as a representative of the citizens of this land, are simple and revolutionary normality; Calabria needs everyday normality. I begin to conclude and thank the President for giving me an extra minute. To achieve this goal, there will be no half-measures or compromises, no longer: for this reason, with Article 4 we have also granted the power to dissolve individual bodies, in case of manifest management failure, but continuing to provide health services, to guarantee the LEAs. Calabria suffered too much. It must now be politics that makes up for these mistakes; it must be politics, the high one, that shows that in the lands marked by crime the state is there. This government is there: it does not abandon Calabria and has not abandoned it even before. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to vote firmly, because the stakes are very important, as they consist not only of the restoration of a devastated health system, but also of the very meaning of the state's presence. Justice and fairness are at stake in my land and not only, because in disorder and disservice the underworld and evil thrive, bartering the right with favor, friendship with support and fidelity with injustice. Therefore, together with democracy it is necessary to create a solid social structure, egalitarian and secure. As I always say, we must certainly observe legality, but - first - the sense of moral duty and justice must have formed our consciences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u29	The general debate is closed. As already anticipated, the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government will be carried out tomorrow. I therefore refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u30	The next item is: In accordance with Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the President's communication on the content of the draft budget law is in force. Pursuant to that provision, the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies shall be examined only after the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission and the Government has been obtained whether the draft budget law contains provisions which conflict with the rules of coverage laid down by the legislation in force. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u31	The 5th Permanent Commission, Economic Programming, Budget, examined, pursuant to Article 126 (4) of the Regulation, the draft law on the budget of the State for the financial year 2021 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2021-2023 and heard the representative of the Government; considering that the draft budget law, based on the provisions of Article 14 of Law No 243 of 2012, does not comply with a coverage rule, but with a balance rule, by which the value of the net balance to be financed or to be committed by it must be consistent with the public finance policy objectives; notes that, as regards financial profiles, the updated technical report contains information on the consistency of the programmatic value of the net balance to be financed or to be used as a result of the draft budget with the programme objectives, through a table linking the net balance to be financed and programmed and the consolidated economic account of the public administrations, it emerges that, in correspondence with a net balance to be financed from the State budget of approximately 194 billion in 2021, about 155 billion in 2022 and 136 billion in 2023, the fiscal billion of the general government, is attested, the fiscal billions of the general government, as at least in 2021, at least. These values of the net balance appear consistent both with the maximum level of the net balance to be financed established by Article 1, paragraph 1, of the draft budget law, and with the net programmatic debt resulting from the trend values reported in the 2014 financial and economic document update note, as modified in the light of the overall effects of the manoeuvre; expresses a favourable opinion considering that the values of the net balance to be financed resulting from the draft law on the budget of the State for the financial year 2021 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2021-2023 are consistent with the net programmatic debt resulting from the trend values reported in the 2014 financial and economic document update note, as modified in the light of the overall effects of the manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u32	In the light of that opinion, draft law No 2054 (State budget for the financial year 2021 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2021-2023) is referred to the 5th Permanent Commission in the reference with the opinion of all the Permanent Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u35	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, a few days ago I spoke on behalf of my Group in an explanation of vote on the Senate's internal budget. Well, all taken up by my speech, I forgot to thank the officials, Dr. Serafin and Dr. Marini, who, because of the pandemic, are working hard to help us all. I do it now and wish them all a happy New Year! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u36	Thank you for your integration, Senator Lanzi. Obviously, in addition to the 5a, the other Commissions are also authorized to convene for the examination of the bill n. 2054.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u39	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, spinal muscle atrophy is a neuromuscular genetic disease that arises shortly after birth and causes a progressive atrophy of the striated muscles, until the end of the paralysis of the respiratory muscles, resulting in the death of the small patients within the first years of life. Today, at last, there is an innovative therapy able to correct the genetic problem and whose use has been recently authorized also in Italy. A very expensive therapy, but able, if started early, to determine the blockage of the atrophy process, preventing, in fact, the progressive evolution of the disease, managing to replace the missing gene. The first treatment in our country was carried out at the Santobono hospital on a six-month infant. A result first of all obtained by scientists, researchers and geneticists who, after years of study and research, have managed to achieve this brilliant achievement. Research knows no boundaries and must be encouraged in every country, and of course also in ours, promoted and facilitated with appropriate measures. It represents in reality the future of the world. Thanks to all the health, parasanitary and technical staff of the hospital Santobono, for their constant commitment and their high professionalism. Thanks also to the technical direction of the hospital, which, with foresight, has allowed to achieve this important and innovative result. Just as it is necessary to point out the serious structural and programming deficiencies in my region, one cannot fail to stress, with satisfaction and pride, what happened because it demonstrates the great work carried out by the professional excellences and the skills that operate in it. The exceptional teamwork paid for and made possible a goal that, until recently, seemed impossible, involving facilities, services and staff of the Neapolitan paediatric hospital. I conclude by making two considerations: on the one hand, the importance of neonatal screening for an early diagnosis, a fundamental condition, as in this case, for treatment as much as possible started before the effects of the disease are irrecoverable; on the other hand, in a world where health policies are often dictated by pre-established budget parameters and poor availability, being able to save a human life must not be absolutely linked to an economic cost, albeit very high that is, as in the case of the small patient. We hope that for the many other genetic diseases, unfortunately still without decisive therapy, the research can succeed, as for the SMA, to show the light so long awaited at the end of the tunnel. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u42	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, seventy-five years after the birth of the Sicilian Special Statute and twenty years after the so-called federalist reform, the Region of Sicily is still waiting for its implementing decrees. These, in truth, are present to this day, but they are generally not in harmony with the statutory dictates; and when they are not, they are even violated by ordinary law. What happened with the state's last budget law, which has unconstitutionally absorbed into the Agency of revenues the society Riscossione Sicilia, while the Statute and the implementing decrees provide otherwise, represents yet another illegality to the detriment of the Sicilians. In spite of a volcano scattered with art, the reality is that today the Region and the Municipalities that depend on it already have total autonomy only on the side of the expenditures, because they perform almost all the functions, while the revenues are firmly in the hands of the State. Except for police, prisons and teachers, Sicilians already pay everything for themselves, while only a fraction of non-proportionary tributes is attributed to them. After decades of abuses already denounced in the last Sicilian regional legislature during the Crocetta government, they, instead of remedying it, signed scallop agreements in which the illegalities were cured making legal what was and remains illegal, unconstitutional and unsustainable. Under these conditions and with the pandemic catastrophe, the budgets can no longer be closed, and - let us be careful - not because of excessive expenditure, but because the natural revenues of the Region have hijacked elsewhere. Another distortion on the Joint Commission: its decrees, as it was in principle, should have been issued directly by the Head of State; for some decades, instead, the decrees of the President of the Republic have been transformed into legislative decrees, real decrees delegated in the absence of delegated laws. There is also talk of insularity in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which also means tax advantages according to the Azores trend. Another violation concerns the lack of hesitation of a Sicilian regional law voted unanimously by the entire constitution, relating to the establishment of mountain free zones. 132 municipalities have been involved and for eighteen days their representatives have been demonstrating in the district of Irosa, along Palermo-Catania, to ask for the completion of the legislative process. The Senate is in breach of Rules 73 and 74 of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask that, within the next two weeks, we finish the process here in the Senate to give refreshment to the families and small and medium-sized enterprises of the territory affected by the Covid, and not only. Otherwise, we will have one more reason to appeal to the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u43	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-287.ana.u44	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 29 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.03 p.m.
