ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for University and Research, the Minister for Education and the Minister for European Affairs will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Pharaoh has the right to explain the question 3-01626 on measures to deal with the shortage of specialist doctors for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u4	Minister, the epidemic has made us realize, even more dramatically - it is not that we had not noticed before - the lack of doctors in this country. We were even forced, with a virus that hit older people the most, to call retired doctors into the lane, in fact forcing them to... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u5	I hear too much buzz. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u6	FARAONE (IV-PSI). ...force them to risk a lot, even their lives, and many have left us. And all this happened while many young doctors would like and could very well practice the profession; unfortunately, however, a dramatic short circuit has been created. You know the matter better than I do, Minister, and I am convinced that you have the same sensitivity in dealing with it, but we really must. The one in which doctors and young doctors are lacking, because of the shortage of scholarships in the specialization schools, cannot achieve the title and therefore cannot go to the lane is a dynamic that we must immediately stop, first of all creating a programming condition. The Ministry of University and Research and the Ministry of Health must organize themselves in a common table to coincide, with serious planning, the possibility of placing doctors in the lane and, at the same time, the verification of the number of specialization schools necessary to satisfy the needs of citizens. When young and good doctors or doctors are missing, they go abroad to work, the most affected are Italian health care and Italian citizens. The fact that, already today, 8,000 doctors are missing, according to Anaao estimates, and the retirement of 52,500 doctors is expected by 2025, with a trend that will lead to less than 16,500 doctors, is a problem that we must solve. If no action is taken from now on by 2025, the current situation will become even more dramatic. We have allocated resources in the so-called decree cure Italy and in the decree I raise, but they are not enough and they will above all have to be structural, not one-off, because only in this way is it planned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u7	The Minister for University and Research, Professor Manfredi, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u8	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Senator for his inspection of what has been achieved so far by the Government on a very important subject. I am talking about the Government and not just the Ministry of University and Research, because it is clear that on the issues that have been represented there is a need for a coordinated and systematic approach by several administrations: I am of course referring to the Ministry I represent, but also to the Ministry of Health, which is specifically called upon to plan the health system for young professionals, as well as to the Ministry of Economics and Finance, which is obviously required to find economic resources. I must say that in recent years the Ministry of University and Research and the Ministry of Health have committed themselves in a concrete way to increasing the number of contracts for access to the first year of medical-specialistic training schools. In the name of this commitment, in fact, the number of contracts has increased exponentially in recent years; we must remember that, in the academic year 2017-2018, there were less than 7,000 specialization grants (only 6.934), while in the next call that will come out in days more than 14,000 contracts are expected. I would therefore like to point out that, on the occasion of the last very important intervention of my own with the so-called re-launched decree-law, I felt that I had to add to the resources already identified by the Ministers of Health and the economy a part of those that had originally been allocated to the system of high training and research, precisely to give a further response to a very important problem that emerged, and this was done precisely because we believe that this issue is extremely relevant for the future of the national health system. I would like to make a very important point, starting with the conclusion. I hope that, even on the occasion of the conversion into law of the so-called re-launched decree-law, there will be the possibility of further increasing the number of grants, precisely to give an answer to the problem. However, there is another issue on which we need a commitment that must be put in place by both the Government and Parliament: I am referring to the best location of the resources identified, precisely in order to allow an optimal allocation in our public health of specialization contracts. In fact, there is the paradox that in some disciplines, for which there is a great lack of specialist doctors, there is a poor question from young doctors: I think of emergency medicine and surgery. I therefore conclude by pointing out that, within the framework outlined, the role of the Ministry of University and Research is also to allow the best allocation, both between disciplines and on the territories, of grants relating to specialist training contracts; an objective that can also be achieved thanks to the establishment, at this Ministry, of the technostructure to support the National Observatory for specialist medical training, which was foreseen in the last budget law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u9	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u10	Minister, together with you, we have only been able to act in an emergency on the subject of medical specializations and, therefore, the resources provided for in the so-called Italian care decree-laws and relaunch. The problem, however, is that we must find an automatic mechanism that reverses the current condition, so that we find the money today and on the basis of them we finance the specialization schools. We should do the opposite, i.e. see what the need for doctors is and on its basis, then, find the resources and involve, in addition to the Ministry, also the Regions, expected that there is also a difference in the grants made available to them. You know, in fact, that, in addition to national resources, there are regional ones and, therefore, when there is no sensitive Government, there is a risk that in a region no medical specialization will be carried out. Therefore, I urge you to find a way, together with the Ministry of Health, to provide for a mechanism that will allow us not to have to pursue the resources of every budget law, first identifying, depending on the needs of doctors, how many they need. Those resources must become incompressible; if we need doctors, we cannot question with an amendment of any Member of Parliament to take away resources, which involves a smaller number of doctors in our country. I believe that we must work on this point to find a definitive solution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u11	Senator Iannone has the right to explain the question 3-01622 on international student mobility programmes for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u12	Minister, I have already had the opportunity, on the occasion of the information you gave a few months ago in the Senate, to draw your Ministry's attention to the problems that many students and their families are experiencing with regard to international student mobility programmes. The difficulty arises from the medical emergency of the coronavirus, but I want to remind you that, according to the Interculture Foundation report, last year 10,200 students attended the fourth year of high school abroad, living an experience for us considered highly formative from the point of view of the possibility not only to receive an education, but also to obtain the teachings of life. Well, those boys and their families have been left to uncertainty. The programme must be prepared very early. The kids are supposed to leave next summer, but they haven't gotten any answers yet. In addition, families are pressed by brokerage agencies that have set very high penalties for the possibility of withdrawal, which reach up to 40% or, alternatively, have proposed vouchers to be used in the next few years. However, since it is an unrepeatable experience, dedicated to children with high school merits, we are concerned that families can no longer face this commitment. However, young people cannot see such a possibility being precluded by having it replaced with a tourist experience. I ask you, therefore, once again what initiatives your Ministry intends to put in place to give certainties to those children and their families and whether you believe that these programmes are still feasible in full health security, which is obviously a priority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u13	Mr President, since the onset of the health emergency, the Government has taken all appropriate measures for the health of students and students and for the prompt return to Italy of students engaged in international student mobility programmes. In order to safeguard families, we have ensured that to the suspension of travel and educational initiatives, deliberate as early as February and confirmed subsequently also by Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, the article 41, paragraph 4, of Annex 1 of Legislative Decree No 79 of 2011, as well as article 1463 of the Civil Code, with the forecast of the reimbursement of the sum spent by the families or the issue of a voucher of equal amount to be used within a year, with a distinction between the terminal classes and the intermediate classes of the various education cycles. Following the World Health Organisation's declaration of pandemics, the various institutions involved in individual student mobility have completed their programmes in advance abroad. In conjunction with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Ministry of Education has become a mediator to ensure the early return of students. With departmental note 493 of April 14, the Ministry also provided operational instructions to the class councils to ensure that the return of the students takes place in a serene manner, agreeing with the pupil an essential course of study, focused on the fundamental contents useful for the attendance of the following year. With regard to the planning for the next school year 2020-21, I can assure you that the Government intends to deploy every effort not to leave the families alone, guaranteeing in safe conditions the opportunities for study and growth developed by these forms of international student mobility, where there are health conditions and on the basis of the epidemiological context. It is for this reason that, working closely with the other countries involved and with the organizing bodies, we will evaluate in the coming weeks the most appropriate initiatives and decisions, given the importance of the topic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Iannone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u14	Minister, I cannot say that I am satisfied with your reply, because we have been calling for your attention on this issue for over fifty days. As is the custom of Brothers of Italy, we do not only denounce and bring to the attention of the Government the problems, but we also provide possible solutions in our opinion. From here to a few hours, we will discuss in the final stages the decree-law on the school. I myself have tabled two amendments which dealt with this problem. Well, the vote in the Commission - although, of course, you will trust the measure - has rejected our solution. However, I still want to be optimistic, although the facts leave little room for this attitude of ours, in the interest of the pupils who must not miss such an opportunity and of the families who must not be left alone. I hope that in the next few days there will really be a commitment from your Ministry that we have not yet seen in this regard, to give a concrete response. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u15	Senator Saponara has the right to explain the question 3-01624 on the safe reopening of schools in the new school year, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u16	Minister, we are happy to finally have you among us, which we have hoped for in these days of frantic work of the Education Commission, engaged in the examination of its decree-law. [[Applause.]] Mr Duole, however, pointed out that we have never seen it before, and even yesterday, in the general debate on the decree, his absence weighed heavily in this House. We would have been pleased to have you with us in the Commission to be reassured not only as representatives of the Education Commission, but above all as citizens and parents, about when and how you intend to reopen schools and with what kind of teaching, to ensure in the best way the right to study of all Italian students under conditions of maximum health security to face the Covid-19. Since the decision to close schools, there has been no linearity of behavior on his part. His statements have often been mixed, communicated before to the media, unfortunately, than in the institutional fora. Yet, it cannot be said that it is not adequately supported in its decisions, since its is the only Ministry to have two task forces of consultants and industry experts. I would like to point out that, while schools are gradually reopening in the rest of Europe, although with many health security limitations such as distancing, reducing the number of pupils per classroom, sanitising, masking, Italy has provided for a possibility of reopening in September, but no official way has been indicated as to what will be done to multiply the classes, expand the spaces, increase the staff for constant sanitization of the classrooms and for the management of the canteens, but above all what will be the strategy to ensure an adequate number of teachers, including those of support. [[Applause.]] To conclude, it is estimated that about 30 percent of peer schools in September will not reopen and about 300,000 students will crowd public schools. In this regard, Minister, we would like to know how you are preparing for this, which, rather than an eventuality, will be a certainty. We would like to be informed about these fundamental aspects for the life of the country, because families need reliable and reliable information to plan a minimum of their future from here to a few months. We would be grateful to you, Minister, if you would give us some answers on the issues we have presented to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u17	The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u18	Senator Saponara, the Government will accompany the return to school of our students and students ensuring maximum security and continuity of teaching. To this end, we are working, in synergy with the Technical and Scientific Committee of the Ministry of Health, on the document containing health claims and final filings. The document will be made public in the next few hours. I would remind you that the same document has already been adopted in the presence of the State examinations of the second cycle of education. In addition, the committee of experts I have appointed has been working intensively for weeks to provide guidance for the resumption of teaching activity. This second document will also be presented shortly. In addition to the work mentioned above, the work to be carried out and carried out with the involvement of social forces and local authorities is of course essential. I want to reiterate this clearly: the reopening of schools in September and the resumption of teaching activity in the presence are a requirement for students and their families and the goal is shared by the whole Government. In view of the start of the new school year, precise operational guidance will be given to all schools, flexible to the characteristics of each school institution. In order to find the necessary financial resources, in the so-called decree-law I throw again the Government has arranged a fund for the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, with an allocation of one billion euros in two annual. The same decree-law has increased the fund for the operation of state schools by 331 million euros for interventions aimed at ensuring the development of the next school year in safe conditions compared to the epidemiological situation. In the field of school building, the so-called decree-laundering law has provided for measures of administrative simplification to allow the local authorities owners of the buildings to operate quickly. On the other hand, in the conversion phase of Decree-Law No 22 of 8 April 2020, an important amendment was approved yesterday in the Commission for Public Education, cultural heritage of the Senate. The mayors and presidents of the Province will in fact have powers commissioners in order to be able to quickly put in place what necessary in order to carry out the work of scholastic construction. With regard to equal schools, it should be mentioned that Article 233 of the Decree-Law of 19 May 2020, n. 34 has allocated special extraordinary funding, amounting to a total of 150 million euros; this demonstrates the Government's will to protect all our students, respecting the freedom of educational choice of families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u19	Senator Saponara has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u20	Minister, thank you for your reply, for which I certainly cannot say that I am satisfied, because - to be clear - as we are very late with the decree-law that we are going to convert or reject today, I am afraid we are also very late for the reopening of schools. Do you not think, Minister, that all this should already be on the table of those who have to prepare the schools, the teaching and the reorganization of staff? [[Applause.]] September is tomorrow: I beg you and I beg you, Minister, to listen to the people directly involved in the world of school; I think that is what you basically miss. Thank you and I really hope you can listen to my humble advice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u21	Senator Moles has the right to explain the question 3-01621 on the criticalities affecting the schools and the staff of the school, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u22	Minister, welcome. We are actually asking you about the macro-themes of the decree-law on school, which we will vote with confidence this afternoon, because both during the examination in the Commission and in the subsequent passages they did not have any answers. In particular, like Forza Italia, but with the entire centre of the right, we had tabled a whole series of amendments in support of the world of school, providing extraordinary support for public and equal schools or the deductibility of the expenses incurred in the same. I would remind you, Minister, that there are almost 13,000 state and equal schools, with more than 900,000 pupils, but we have also proposed a selection for titles and services for the thousands of precarious teachers, as well as many other possible solutions to the various annual issues relating to the school, such as that of school managers, ATA, magisterial graduates and others. Unfortunately, none of this has been taken into account by you, the Government and the majority, but it has failed. Many problems have not been solved and, therefore, we absolutely regret the fact that the Government continues to take initiatives without confrontation, especially with the worlds concerned, certainly with the social partners, but also with the opposition forces in Parliament, nor without listening to requests from the school world. Regardless of the contents of the decree-law on school, which in reality - as far as we are concerned - is absolutely insufficient, we therefore ask you to know whether you intend to take initiatives to allow a serene and orderly start-up of public and equal schools; to know - for example - also for the serenity of all, families and students, what the date will be for you to carry out the final exams; to ensure that the selective procedures for the placing in the role of teachers are guaranteed to all, including those who have provided and serve in public and equal schools; to what initiatives - if you intend to take them - to ensure that the precarious of the school a long-term perspective, leading to the stabilization of teachers, so as to finally guarantee the continuity of teaching; finally, if you do not feel that you take urgent steps to ensure that students receive adequate support and psychological support, including by providing the establishment of an ad hoc figure, which can provide support for the fragility and difficulties resulting from the currentemergency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u23	The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u24	Senator Moles, I fully share with you the need to ensure teaching continuity for all students. The legitimate aspirations of precarious teachers to enter the role of teachers are also acceptable. Even having in mind these priority objectives, last April 28 the Minister banned four competitive procedures for the coverage of 61,863 places, common and support, throughout the national territory, of which 12,863 in the schools of childhood and primary, 25,000 in the secondary school, with the ordinary competition, and 24,000 places for teachers of secondary school to be covered with special procedure, reserved precisely for precarious ones with at least three years of service in state schools. With regard instead to the teaching staff of the peer schools, it is worth remembering that it may participate, if it has completed the prescribed requirement of minimum service, in the extraordinary procedure aimed at the acquisition of the qualification to the teaching, but without prejudice to the possibility to take part in the ordinary contest, also for the purpose of the placing in role, if in possession of the requirements provided for in the notice. In addition, article 230 of the recent decree I throw again has increased of 16,000 units the places already previewed from the aforementioned contests. We have therefore started procedures to recruit almost 80,000 teachers. We want to reduce the precariousness to give more stability to the school and we want to do so through regular and selective competitions. For this reason too, in the process of converting Decree-Law No 22 of 2020 which is being discussed today in the Senate Chamber, with an amendment already approved in the Commission, we have modified, on the basis of a majority agreement, the procedure for carrying out the exam of the extraordinary competition, eliminating the so-called cross quizzes provided by the school decree last December and replacing them with open-ended questions. On the other hand, regarding the request for initiatives aimed at guaranteeing students adequate support and psychological support in this emergency phase, I can already reassure you: specific initiatives have been launched with the Ministry's task force for educational emergencies, among which I signal an online service for psychological support to families, students and teachers in dealing with the difficult moment of emergency, the preparation of a team of psychologists of the evolutionary age who is listening to young people, teachers and families, to ensure even remotely the service of the listening desk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u25	Senator Moles has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u26	Minister, thank you, but let me say that I am not satisfied with your answers, because I do not really trust you and we do not trust you anymore. We have heard many: closing school yes, closing school no; in April the students will all be promoted, in May you can also fail; the lessons in September may be half at school and half at home. I do not insist on funnels to fill and not fill, because there was a confusion between Montessori and the funnel of Nuremberg. But there's some confusion, so let me not trust what you said. You too, Minister, loudly announced stabilisation by title and service, and you are well aware that this mediation of the extraordinary competition of the precarious does not help to resolve the problem of the precarious, above all it will not help to guarantee the continuity of teaching: in September we will find ourselves with 200,000 exposed chairs. On distance learning I add nothing else, because many have already spoken; then there are the teachers of support excluded from peers and so on. I should like to end by quoting: If a teacher faces a selection and takes a course that lasts a year, you don't understand why then you have to make him do more to pass role. It is as if it were a competition for all intents and purposes. These, Minister, are your words of September 6, 2019, not so many years ago. Unfortunately - and I am sincerely sorry - you have succeeded in an almost impossible undertaking: to unite everyone against you and against your decisions (unions, teachers, executives, ATA staff, families, students). I would remind you, Minister, that the school needs credibility and seriousness. And credibility is like virginity: it is easy to lose, difficult to maintain, but impossible to recover, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u27	Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-01623 on the procedures for carrying out the examination of maturity, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u28	Mr Minister, I would like to begin by expressing to you the solidarity of the Movimento 5 Star Group, the Extraordinary Commission on Combating Intolerance, Racism, Anti-Semitism and Incitement to Hate and Violence, as well as the majority of the school world which is not recognized in the unqualified attacks you have suffered these days. [[Applause]] I come to the credit. Given that following the health emergency and after the closure of the school complexes, it was essential to regulate with emerging tools the operations relating to the closure of the school year 2019-2020 and the orderly start of the school year 2020-2021, for this reason, by Decree-Law No 22 of 8 April 2020, currently under parliamentary scrutiny for the conversion to law, ad hoc measures have been taken to regulate this matter. As a general rule, the above-mentioned decree-law put the detailed rules on pupil assessment and on the conduct of the state examinations of the first and second cycles of education back to ministerial orders. For the latter it has been arranged ex lege, in any case, the modification of the admission requirements referred to in Legislative Decree no. 62 of 2017 with reference to the first cycle of education as well as to the second for the internal candidates and for the private candidates. In the context outlined above, Decree-Law No 22 of 2020 provided for two options for the possible resumption of the teaching activity in presence by the end of 18 May 2020. In the most serious scenario - the one that then materialized, unfortunately - this act has established separate measures for the final state examination of both the courses of instruction with reference to the tests object of the same and with reference to the composition of the jury. On 16 May 2020, the aforementioned ministerial orders were published after the opinion obtained by the Higher Education Council and assessed that, during the suspension of the activity in presence, the continuation of the teaching activities for the purpose of the conclusion of the current school year took place through the mode of distance teaching. In this context, in which the use of this method appeared to be the only viable alternative during the epidemiological emergency, the Government intervened in order to strengthen this new form of learning by allocating substantial resources to ensure both teachers and students, with particular reference to the less well-off ones, to be able to take advantage of the individual digital tools necessary to carry out or follow the online lessons. I would ask you, Minister, what measures have you taken in the above-mentioned orders to allow examinations to be carried out in the presence of the second cycle of education, with regard to both school staff and students, with particular attention to the safety measures identified. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u29	Mr President, Senator Corrado, as I have repeatedly said, the protection of our girls, our boys and their future is a fundamental and unavoidable priority. To this end, on May 19 a specific agreement was signed between the Ministry and the trade union organizations that transposes the document produced by the Technical and Scientific Committee on measures to ensure the conduct of the State exams of the second cycle in presence under conditions of maximum safety. The Protocol provides, in addition to health requirements, for appropriate operational indications. To this end, we are working closely with regional school offices and trade unions. The Ministry, in fact, has already started the help desk service in favour of schools through the activation of a toll-free number that will help to collect questions and reports on the application of security measures and to provide assistance and operational support also of an administrative nature. In addition, the Technical and Scientific Committee may be asked at any time to take any further measures proportionate to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. Regional working tables will also be set up to monitor the territorial situation with the collaboration of trade unions, local authorities, epidemiological hygiene services, the Red Cross and civil protection. These regional tables will connect with the permanent national table and the school institutions providing concrete solutions to the local tables established in the territorial areas. The Ministry will then provide training support also in online mode on the use of personal protective equipment and on the contents of the technical and scientific document, as provided for in the convention with the Red Cross of 19 May last and regional intervention plans. The implementation of the indications contained in the technical and scientific document will be guaranteed by the resources allocated with the decree-law relaunch for this year equal to 39 million euros destined to state and equal schools precisely for interventions aimed at guaranteeing the performance of the state exams in safety conditions, ensuring interventions of cleaning of the school environments and the purchase of all the personal protective devices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Lucia may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister first of all for staying with us outside the Commission last night until 1.30 a.m. until we have all worked for the measure that we are going to adopt today. In addition, I would like to inform you that yesterday the representation of the 5 Star Movement in our Commission, which happens to be all women's, has been called "the Minister's shield." I'd like to tell her that she's got a lot of squires around, so she can be quiet and serene. [[Applause]] , and continue to stand by the teachers and learners, as they are doing. The choice of abandoning social distance for a day and making the exam de visu to the matures is a way to give them a dream, what they will remember all their lives. I challenge anyone in this House to say that he does not remember the day of his examination of maturity. So why not give these kids this year, to whom almost everything has been denied, at least the opportunity to look their teachers in the eyes and remember for the whole life of this moment? Thank you very much for that, too. Social distancing - a bad expression that I do not like - is the case to abandon it even for a moment, which will then be remembered for life. Thank you, therefore, for all the measures you have put in place to make our children face this moment, who will remember it forever. Thanks again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u31	Senator Pittella has the right to explain the question 3-01625 on the negotiations for the launch of European support funds after the Coronavirus emergency, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u32	Mr President, members of the Government, Mr Amendola, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of truth and intellectual and political honesty, I would have expected - and I would still expect - that, in the face of the plan proposed by the European Commission, yesterday, for reconstruction after the pandemic, those who in recent months have prejudiced the indifference, the inconclusion and the weakness of Europe would admit with the same force to the Italians that Europe is there. The European Union puts in place, between loans and grants, EUR 750 billion, after disabling the Stability Pact and having activated EIB and ECB interventions, the Sure programme and the ESM line, for those who want to use it. All this without triumphalism, without singing victory, but with the pride of seeing - I say this in a concrete way - a Eurobond embryo born. Instead I read elucubrations, messy words, stubborn coercion to deny the undeniable. All this happened while in the Chamber of Parliament in Brussels, Vice-President Meuthen of the sovereignist group to which the League belongs proudly attacked the reconstruction plan and even considered it without a legal basis. As if to say: in Rome, Salvini says it is too little; in Brussels, the Group to which Salvini belongs says that not even that little had to be done. [[Applause.]] Minister, we know that yesterday we laid an important stone, but the path is not concluded: we will have to defend this proposal by having it approved as soon as possible, providing fast times and procedures for the delivery of funds that will mainly cover the three key sectors that also affect Italy (green economy, digital and innovation). Together with my colleague Fedeli and our PD Group, we ask you, Minister, to move in this direction with that negotiating capacity and intelligence that has led to important successes for Italy, for the European Union's stability and future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u33	The Minister for European Affairs, Vincenzo Amendola, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u34	Dear President, I thank Senator Pittella and the other interrogators. The Commission, as has been said, presented yesterday its proposal for a European recovery plan after the Covid-19, responding to the mandate given by the European Council on 23 April: a solid and innovative proposal, which opens up new avenues for European tax policies. The Action Plan includes two closely linked elements: the multiannual financial framework (MFF) 2021-2027, reinforced compared to previous proposals with a new recovery instrument, the recovery fund, renamed "Next generation Eu". This latter instrument will be financed by the European Union through loans contracted by the European Commission on the capital market guaranteed by all Member States. The recovery fund amounts to EUR 750 billion, of which Italy is the main beneficiary. Of this amount, 500 billion are distributed in the form of grants and 250 in the form of long-term loans which will be returned to investors between 2028 and 2058. On March 25 - like you, Senator Pittella, I still remember skepticism - Italy, together with eight other countries, had asked itself to work for a common debt instrument issued by the European institutions, in order to finance investments for the internal market and to support the resilience of the European value chains invested by the global crisis. Since then, many decisions have been taken, and I quote the most important ones: the suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact, the flexibility granted to the State aid system, the launch by the European Central Bank of the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme (PEPP), which brings intervention only for purchases of securities to EUR 1,100 billion, and the flexibility of the use of cohesion policy resources. The European Council of 23 April then consolidated the joint response by defining three security networks of EUR 540 billion, and so yesterday, before Parliament, the MFF was presented and this proposal, consisting of three programmes and three major intervention pillars. With the recovery fund we are going to EUR 1,850 billion in the budget, an amount increased by the increase in the budget's own resources and linked to the Union's objectives, and not by an increase in national contributions. I repeat, it is a great and solid negotiating base, along with the other security networks and the ECB's programmes. As Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri said, it is a breakthrough on many robust and coordinated economic policies between the Commission, the Council and the ECB. In view of the European Council meeting in June next year, negotiations are beginning which are not easy for a rapid agreement to maintain the ambition of departure. On the MFF we will defend our red lines and, in particular, an appropriate allocation of funds for the cohesion of agricultural policy. On the recovery fund we will analyse the technical details, proposals and their rapid enforceability. In conclusion, however, the Government's commitment is not limited to the European side of the negotiations. The Government, as announced by President Conte, will prepare its national recovery plan to relaunch the economy in line with European objectives, starting with the green deal and digital transition and innovation, all of this in close conjunction with and with the consent of Parliament since the preparation of the next European Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u35	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Fedeli for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u36	I must say, Mr Amendola, that I am particularly honoured and proud to have listened to your words here today in this House in response to Mr Pittella's question, although I believe that there should be a pride of the whole Senate, of the whole Parliament and of the whole country. I want to thank you, I want to thank the Government and I want to thank Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri, because I think you have done three fundamental things. The first: you have come to the Senate, you have received a mandate, you have exercised it with great determination, coherence and ability to create conviction, involvement and even alliances, which is the correct method by which you should be in Europe. I too think that the turning point has taken place, a very important turning point and underestimating it would be a dramatic mistake for the whole of Italy, but also for all European citizens and citizens. That is why I believe it is equally important that we continue in this way, until we reach the vote of the European Council in the coming days. I say at once that, as you mentioned now, there is a close connection - and for this I particularly appreciated, I want to emphasize, the intervention of President Count of yesterday - between what we can have from Europe and what we have achieved with the recovery plan in Italy, consistent with that choice; a choice that looks at investments in innovation, digital and, let me say, in formation and research, able to quickly bring this country to be an important competitor, as it deserves, in the construction of a society and a knowledge economy. This is the great point and the great turning point that is also linked to the ecological transition. I want to end with a reflection, which I hope will help all of us. This country deserves, on June 2, to be able to put all the windows (since we cannot all meet together, as our custom, in the squares), in a web, in addition to the Italian flag, the European flag. The extraordinary work that this country has done to build the historical result that started yesterday really deserves to be recognized and made to live concretely, in all the streets, in all the neighborhoods, in all the Italian houses. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u37	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u38	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today marks the 40th anniversary of the terrible murder of Walter Tobagi by a commando of the terrorist group A man of great intelligence and lucid capacity for analysis, Walter Tobagi had dedicated himself passionately to studying and telling the complex causes of one of the most difficult and dramatic periods of our history. Irremovable defender of freedom of the press and the right to report, he was also aware that true journalism is not being pursued by chasing the news, but by rebuilding the truth with patience, scrupulousness, perseverance and intellectual honesty. It was precisely his great professionalism and the courage to defend these values that made him a target of the violence of terrorism; a violence that has been tainted with the blood of too many innocent, heroes of normality, women and men struck for the sole fault of having interpreted their role in society with commitment and a great sense of duty; citizens well, whose sacrifice cannot and must never be forgotten. In renewing, therefore, the closeness of the Senate and of all Italians to the pain of their family and friends, I ask this House to observe a minute's silence, in the name of Walter Tobagi. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u39	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1774. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to the speeches that followed in the general debate, both those received by the majority and the opposition forces, which, I must say, with a sense of responsibility for the majority of them have helped us respect the right differences. I listened to the criticisms, some of which were constructive and others instrumental. However, we must not forget, although unfortunately I have noticed that perhaps too often we happen to do so, that all this happened in a state of absolute emergency that has no precedent in the history of the Italian Republic. I have heard that the measure under consideration does not have a vision of the future of the school. It is an absolutely legitimate observation, but certainly demagogic. I strongly say that we have done everything possible to safeguard and protect the world of Italian school. It cannot therefore be denied that the vision is inherent in the responsible and rational exit from the emerging situation, guaranteeing the right to study our children in the best possible way. No one can say that we have not put the interests of students, families and their essential needs at the centre of the whole regulatory body as a whole. Others insisted on the need to get the kids back to class as soon as possible. For example, Senator Bagnai pointed out how strong the fear of parents of an immediate return of their children to school, and then urged a sudden return to class, a quick return to normality because only the class represents the true school. It is a twisted reasoning, but also very contradictory. Children can represent a dangerous vehicle of infection at school, because they can be part of the vast array of asymptomatic infectious diseases. This is the simple reason why we did not do it: to protect the elderly, grandparents, teachers' parents, the weakest sections of the population and most exposed to the virus. I have often heard Mr Calamandrei quoted in this House. I would add that he argued that, if a comparison were to be made between the constitutional organism and the human organism, it should be said that the school corresponds to those organs which in the human organism have the function of creating blood: without the public school, which must come before the private one, there is no point in talking about democracy. To those who have quoted it I say that in this dark period, despite everything, the school instead has continued to generate blood and life for the protection of democracy and has done so with all the difficulties found by all the actors involved and interested, so that it returns to be the great founding institution of Italian society. There was someone who even talked about a Caporetto from the Italian school. I find this remark really out of place; I understand the role of preconceptual and ideological opposition to everything that comes from the current Government, but it is quite excessive as a statement, also because we must not forget the dramatic nature of the moment. What has not been done in the past decades and, above all, the written school policies carried out in the most unsavory ways, cannot be put on the shoulders of this Government. I believe that no one here can deny the objective principle that school is educational service, cultural and social growth, inclusion, solidarity and tolerance. I challenge anyone to say that these characteristic elements are not a fundamental part of the regulatory framework that is highlighted in the text. True, perhaps more could be done in the direction of stabilization of precariousness, but we must also have the lucidity to say that much has been done in so many fundamental and essential points of didactics. I also reply to those who criticized us in an instrumental way; for example, to guarantee an order to start the next school year does not mean to surrogate the shortage of teachers with emergency measures, but with appropriate structural interventions, guaranteeing principles of equity, transparency and meritocracy for recruitment and entry into role, also guaranteeing the continuity of teaching, in particular with the teachers of support, since the scenario that emerges from the emergency health penalizes them to a greater extent and penalizes even more the most serious disabilities, up to the various problems that affix to the specific disorders of learning and to the special educational needs. However, we have managed to avoid staff contractions and we have given the possibility, for those who have three years of service on support, to specialise in order to compensate for the shortage of specialized teachers. I also remind those who accuse us of being superficial that we have protected the merit by opposing the six politicians. Some of you have underestimated this strong emphasis on the meritorious principle. In a dramatic condition that has devastated the civil and social life of the last three months it would have been very easy to avoid more thorough and just forms of evaluation - such as those highlighted in the text and that we are preparing to vote - and to take comfortably refuge in an egalitarian promotion without merit and without the indispensable differences of values. We have not done so; we have chosen the most difficult path, but the right one for our students. I want to reiterate to all of you that the salient point of the measure is merit, it is what the historical moment imposes on us, it is what young people who believe in change ask us. We couldn't afford not to give the country an important signal. The answers we give with this measure are emblematic of the concept that meritocracy and preparation will never be put in the background, less in the educational field and less so in the case of teachers. Overcoming an objective assessment of the level of teacher training has always been a priority on which we cannot afford to compromise. With this text we want to reduce the precariousness in order to give more stability to the school and we want to do so through a method of recruitment that guarantees the merit, putting before the principle of the quality of our education system and, consequently, the efficiency of the service rendered to the students who then are the main protagonists of it. We will return to school in September in full safety, ladies and gentlemen; I assure you that we are working to find all solutions in relation to the different age groups of students, to the individual school structures and also to the specificities of the different territorial realities. The choices we make today will have repercussions in the coming years. We have 78,000 teachers to hire in the first and second cycles, between ordinary competitions and extraordinary competitions and among the aspirants there are thousands of young people who have been preparing for a long time and want to have their chance to start teaching. Some points will certainly be improved and certainly in the next measures, starting from the decree relaunch, are confidently expected of the provisions that contemplate the reorganization of the classes, for example guaranteeing the health distance or other forms of improvement and reduction of the risk future. However, I would like to say that, despite everything and despite this very difficult moment, we have a unique opportunity to put school back at the centre, turning this tragedy into an opportunity. After having detected a whole series of problems already present, there will be in the decree relaunching expansive measures that will intervene in various points, trying to fix structural deficiencies of our school system. I want to remind you, for example, that we will hire 16,000 more teachers than the 62,000 already planned by two incoming competitions, 8,000 more seats for each of the two calls. This brings us to 78,000 new recruits who will start entering the school as early as September. We will present, with the decree relaunch, also measures for the teachers of support in possession of the TFA. This provision takes into account the extreme selectivity of existing ordinamental paths, while leaving unchanged the ordinary competitive procedures, providing for the possibility of insertion and updating the scores on a biennial basis, since the annual coverage of the roles on the support represents each school year a particular area of criticality. There will be new measures, such as financing the purchase of professional services, training, technical assistance for safety in the workplace, for distance learning, for medical and health care, we will finance the purchase of protective equipment and materials for individual hygiene and environments, interventions in favour of teaching of students with disabilities, specific learning disorders and special educational needs, we will acquire and make available in particular to students with fewer individual digital devices for the necessary network connectivity. We will finance the purchase of innovative publishing and teaching tools and will also allocate 150 million euros for equal schools, of which 70 for primary and secondary schools and 80 for services from 0 to 6 years. We must all have the honesty to recognize, beyond the logic of political positioning, that these are important numbers and we must do this as soon as possible. The school needs stability and planning. In the past all this has been missing and so it is time to move on, to do it now and do it better, we must do it for our children and we must do it even better to safeguard our future in the interests of our children, reminding us that the school is us. [[Applause.]] 10:45 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u41	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u42	Mr President, I would also like to thank the senators and the senators for the speeches they made yesterday in the general debate and, of course, for the work that has been done in the Commission over the past few days. I would like to start by thanking all of you, the majority and the opposition, also for the very important contributions that have come to this debate. I believe that, in this difficult and complex phase, without precedent, that our country lives, this is even the most felt need: I feel the strong need for a broad political and cultural debate on a topic such as school, university and research, which does not just concern what has happened in the last three months, because in the last three months, faced with the emergency, although we have done so many things, we have found those difficulties and problems that have probably accumulated over the years. We have a great need for this debate - for a real debate - and to regain centrality (I say so). Perhaps this is the point of suffering and difficulty. For too long the school (which is also a great theme, because it concerns half a country and above all the future of Italy, starting first of all from the younger generations, students and students) has perhaps not been adequately at the center of a broad political and cultural debate, that it was not relegated simply to the professionals (who obviously have to be part of it), but aimed at understanding how one can imagine a revival and how - I really like this expression - the reopening in September can be a real new beginning and not a simple reopening. We need a fresh start. In my opinion, the rapporteur is right, which has just said so, and which I also thank for the work she has done over the last few weeks. We must have this kind of ability. Of course it will not be easy, but it will be very complex. Our challenge must be to try to turn the dramatic emergency that we have experienced in recent weeks into an opportunity, knowing that there are many things that we will have to face. It is obvious - and it is needless to say - that we would have done without this dramatic emergency, first of all because of the load of deaths that it brought with it and then because of the most difficult social and economic conditions in which it vice-presidents today the country. Somehow, however, it is as if this emergency had opened the eyes of each of us, a bit like with the air. When do you realize that air is important? When it's missing and it's not there. The same applies to freedom: one realizes how important and decisive it is when one is deprived of it. The school is the same thing: the whole country realized how decisive the education system was exactly when we had the difficulty and had to close the schools because there was no other choice. At that very moment we noticed how the school and the training system are the great democratic pillar of this country, just as it is - we have seen it plastically in these weeks of emergency - the national health system. It is as if this country, in the end, was based on two major infrastructures: the health system (which has had to withstand the dramatic pressure of the last few weeks, during which we realized how important, fundamental and decisive it is to have a health system that holds in times of difficulty) and the school system and education, from the point of view of families and especially of children. Can we tell each other something with a little courage? In these weeks' debate there is a very understandable point, and I think it is also well-founded, but - at least from my point of view - it does not fully address this issue. Inevitably we focused very much on the theme of reopening by imagining it as something primarily functional to families. Parents ask themselves: How do I go to work if the schools are closed? Where do I put the kids? Where are they going? It is a matter of course true that we must not underestimate. People who work need to know where to send their children in the morning if they can't stay home alone. But can we say that this is not the heart of the problem? Can we tell ourselves that school is not simply the parking lot where children are left when their parents go to work and that this issue may deserve to be viewed from another point of view? It is through the school that the subjective and collective right to education of the younger generations is satisfied, which is a sacred constitutional right and the ground around which the elements of the progress of democracy of a country like ours are measured. For this reason - and not by chance - I am talking about civil infrastructure, because I consider this element the pillar around which to put in place a system so decisive for the development of our country. It is obvious - I have no intention of denying it - that we have had difficulties. For intellectual honesty, I'd like to know which country in the world didn't have any. Do you know how many students have stayed at home, in the world, at this stage? A billion and a half. Since our Ministry has also collaborated with the counterparts of other European countries, to know what the situation was like, I can assure you that even some very large country I do not say that it has told the students dear kids, we have to close the schools, we see each other in three months or when it will be, but almost, in the sense that the difficulty has been enormous everywhere. We have to say this with sincerity, otherwise we do not introduce an element of progress into our debate. Do we have difficulties too? Of course, because we know very well that, when we close the schools, in the face of a gigantic fact, what we managed to put on the field was very useful, in my opinion, but inevitably has struggled, compared to the scope of such resounding and gigantic events. But can one really not have the intellectual honesty to recognize that something like this inevitably produces an element of suffering? I think that distance learning has served in a situation like this, and it is not that we have great alternatives, except simply to close. The distance learning, however, was still the way to maintain some connection. Is it different from the school in attendance? Yeah, totally. Can you replace normal teaching? No, of course not. Our school, that of the Constitution, is based first of all on sociality, relationships, growth and training: it is clear that a distance mechanism suffers an element of difficulty; but, even here, let us try to bring this thing back into a more normal debate. We had to use distance teaching, because there was no alternative; of course we do not imagine or imagine for any reason in the world the distance teaching as a substitute for the future of what we had in our history. However, we can draw on one element: girls and boys have accumulated an experience that we can instead try to understand how not to disperse, with integrated mechanisms; why should we disperse an experience that is however positive and also constitutes another way and another idea, for example, of using technological tools? I see it with my children, who, with the iPad, up to three months, played simply; the fact that today they use it not only to play, but also with another kind of head, seems a positive thing, that I do not want to disperse. When we return to school in presence we can imagine, for example, forms and attempts to apply digital teaching even in the classroom. We know that there are already so many experiments on this, like the inverted school, and so many very important things, and so I think this is a terrain. What else did you do with your distance learning? It has made some elements of inequality more visible. Yesterday I listened to the speeches by the opposition, who insisted very much on this point. True, there is no doubt: the most fragile and suffering part has emerged, for many reasons, not simply from the economic point of view (although of course, if you don't have the tablet, you are). On the other hand, I have to say that the Government has intervened on this and, as you know, in the decree-law care Italy has foreseen an appropriation of 80 million and we have also used 70 more of a PON, so we have allocated a significant amount, to meet exactly this type of difficulty, that is to provide technological material to those who do not have it and therefore determine anyway some form of connection in the most difficult phase of the lockdown. I understand that and it is clear: from the point of view not simply material, but psychological as well, probably that piece of the most fragile and weak student world had the greatest element of difficulty. Here too, however, we must tell ourselves a great truth among ourselves: distance learning has made these inequalities more visible. But can anyone really reasonably argue with intellectual honesty that they were born today? Those that we have seen in a plastic way with distance teaching - with which we have discovered that the most fragile part of the country has gone into greater difficulty - are unfortunately the fragility and weaknesses that have accumulated over the years and that are a very true feature of our school, which is certainly a great democratic pillar; but it is not that there was no inequality in the Italian school before the Covid-19 and lockdown. Early school leaving and educational poverty were even before lockdown, of course. The elements of inequality which we see and which we have seen with our own eyes are unfortunately the great problem on which I think this Government must work over the coming years. And I think precisely that we need that public debate which I invoke and which I believe is decisive. What is this inequality in the world of school? I'll tell you what inequality is. Do you know how many students do classical high school in Italy, whose parents are not graduated from classical high school as well? Just under 5%. 95 percent of those who do classical high school in Italy, by chance, have parents who have also done classical high school or scientific high school; and they all come, either mainly or at least in a very large majority, from a specific and precise social context. Do you know how many people do the vocational institution in a reverse situation? Everyone. Those who do professional work come from another social context. Will this be a gigantic problem in a country like ours? It somehow breaks what should be the key mechanism in a democracy, that is, the social elevator, the idea that you can improve your condition, the fact that you are not bound by your own condition of departure and that you can do it if you are good. Is this going to be a huge problem? But can we really imagine that's a problem we find out today? This is the problem of our training system for twenty-five years; it is the great element of difficulty around which the democratic system of the country has jammed. That's exactly what I'm saying, then. Today these things are seen more clearly, because at least the Covid has made sure that today they are all the most attentive. I have been discussing these weeks, for hours and days, and I imagine that each of us has done so: we have been debating all day and today there is a very strong level of attention on the part of students and families on these issues. It is the right time to make this kind of reflection; when should we do it, if not now? A reflection on how we imagine a basic idea, a vision that goes exactly to disrupt these elements, that goes to disrupt this system that somehow led to a blockade in the democratic advancement of a country. I think when we start again, we need to talk about this. Of course it is difficult; it is ambitious and very difficult. But I really would not want the debate on the reopening of schools in September to be limited simply to a matter of inches. Sure, we're gonna have to discuss inches, and we're gonna have to do the physical distance. Maybe if we used to call it physical distance and not social distance, I think we'd do better. But anyway, we're gonna have to do this physical distancing, and we're gonna have to keep the students separate from each other, so obviously we're gonna have to take care of the inches, too. Since we know that we have the atavistic problems we know, for example the problems of the too large classes, we will have to divide them into groups and we will have to do significant work on this point (on which I will then say something). However, I think that it is also crucial that the approach that we put in place when we go to do this; it is not enough simply to address a question of a geometric type relating to how to set up the benches, so whether it is necessary to place half the class in the corridor or keep it all together. That's not the point. Or, better, that is also the point of course, because we must do it in full safety, as is evident, with the full agreement of the Scientific Committee, the Ministry of Health, for the safety of all, of the children, of the professors and of the ATA staff. It is clear that we must also take care of this; but I think that we should strive to take a step further, that is to imagine reopening exactly in this spirit, with the idea of who today has a new opportunity compared to the past, which is exactly in a much higher level of attention than before on the part of the country and finally in the possibility, even from the political point of view, of gaining that centrality that has been lacking in recent years. I want and will fight so that the school in Italy can become central in the public debate and can be precisely the great element around which we reason. This decree-law, of course, served a great deal. First of all it was to close the year, it was to give an outlet and a conclusion to this difficult school year, unique and unrepeatable in our history; it had to fix these elements and also those related to the examination of maturity. I believe that on this too the chosen path is honestly of common sense, in the sense that I think it was right to imagine not losing the year, unless there are very particular situations and there is a number of absences such even in the first four months to make the promotion impossible. I think it's right to have a kind of approach that's all but punitive. These boys and girls have not been on vacation in these three months; all of us have seen how difficult it has been, even from the psychological point of view, and how much this closure has been suffered. The kids were on vacation and, therefore, frankly loading them with a punitive element would be really incredible. It is right, in my opinion, to imagine this kind of conclusion and also to be able to safely take the exam of maturity in that way. It is right to imagine reopening as the return to class in the situation in which we are saying. Finally, I do not exclude and avoid talking about it. I think that from this point of view we must have great transparency and honesty even when, as has happened within the Government, we are debating and even when we are carriers of non-identical views. There is no doubt that there has been a very close discussion over the past few weeks on the very important issue of recruitment. It's a serious point. I said it just now: if we think that there is a big problem in the country and, that is, that we have very different social contexts between them and schools very different between social contexts, the theme of the quality of teaching is very serious. If there is no quality of teaching, the social elevator does not unlock. There's nothing to do. If you are a little boy or a little girl who comes from a more difficult, more fragile, more troubled context and, therefore, you do not have a family behind you who helps you, you must have the luck of meeting a teacher, a teacher or a teacher who teaches you in the true sense of the word and, that is, who takes you on a new path of life. It must, however, have the quality to do so and, therefore, there is the theme of the quality of teaching. It's not nonsense; it's a serious theme because it's exactly what it takes to modify an element of crystallization. The theme was to understand how this very serious element of the quality of teaching found an element of synthesis with another serious issue that we have in Italy for many years. I'm talking about the precarious. It's about teachers who have been in the classroom for many years doing supplements. Can we thank from this House all the teachers who are precarious and not, of the role and not of this country? Let's give them a round of applause for the work they've done these past few weeks. [[Applause.]] They did an extraordinary job; however, they took charge of distance teaching, which was not easy for them either. Routes have been made, but they are not even very trained and, as we know, they are not even very young because in Italy the average age of teachers is not low. It is higher than in other European countries. I think that they have loaded themselves with a great element of difficulty honestly in these weeks and, therefore, I think we must thank them very much for the work they have done. I absolutely do not want to evade the theme and return to the story of the precarious, on which it was a question of finding an idea that could keep alive the two elements of the quality of teaching - which someone summarizes with the word "merit" - and the need to produce a progress that could put in the field of the elements of greater stabilization and progressive entry into a dimension no longer precarious. It wasn't easy. In words it is easy to say these two things, but when you have to cross them into a norm and make a decree or a law text become it is not very simple. Inside the government we started - it is not a mystery - from positions that were not similar. I myself, as you may know, have repeatedly said my opinion in all these weeks. I always thought that you couldn't do the extraordinary contest now, that quizzes weren't a proper selection mechanism, that you had to reason in another way. Of course, an element of synthesis is a mediation between different policy options, but I think it is a reasonable balance. I think that it bears in some way in mind the different starting points, and I also think that in this situation we must not forget even the very significant part on which we can reason today. Anyway, we're gonna do 78,000 hirings, as we've been reminded. This is not something we do every year; I repeat, we will make 78,000 hires in the world of school. There were 24,000 at the extraordinary competition, 24,000 at the ordinary competition and 13,000 at the childhood school and primary school. We have succeeded, even in the political debate between the majority forces, in improving this element again: we have achieved and obtained another 16,000 recruitments; we have a significant number of recruitments that we can now put in place. Does it reduce the precariousness? Of course I do. Is that gonna work out? Certainly not. Surely we will still have to work over the months and years to come to settle the big issue of recruitment. I have said this many times in this House: although I have accumulated some political experience over the years, I am not from the world of school, I am not a teacher or principal. None of that. Before I became State Secretary for Education, I was a Member of Parliament at political level, so I was not involved in this area. I have to say - I have to tell you this openly because it is a subject on which, in my opinion, we must reflect - that something that struck me very much when I began to deepen and when I became Undersecretary it was to see how over these years it is as if a series of elements had accumulated and stratified even very different between them. Rules made one after the other have accumulated and stratified, and they also make a topic like the one of recruitment very complex. I think - I tell the senators and the senators - that the day will have to come when we say in this country: to become teachers the system is this [[Applause]] That's all, not others. It will have to come that day when, when you enroll in university or any school, you already know what is the way to become a teacher? I think we have to do this; we have to get to that day. Of course, we must know that in the meantime we must try as much as possible to intervene on the world of precariousness, making it emerge from that condition - of course by requiring the elements of merit - in order to arrive at some somewhat more complete form that will actually allow us to take a step forward. Otherwise we will always be in this kind of situation. Otherwise, year after year a new government will arrive that will change the rules again, will accumulate even more stratifications, you will become teachers in a hundred different ways. [[Brusio. Comments.]] I'm done, I think I'm talking about something that should interest us: we're talking about school.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u43	The government representative is speaking for as long as the Rules allow him to speak. I think the subject is interesting and it is worth listening to, given the heated debate on this subject. [[Brusio. Comments.]] The Government has a time set by the Rules of Procedure and that is granted - I repeat - on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. So I think any controversy is superfluous. [[Brusio.]] Who is calling for speedy implementation of the Undersecretary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you very much. Actually, I would like to reassure some senators and senators, because they interrupted me as I was about to finish. Let's say they were very timely. I believe that with this decree-law I raise a step forward we do so and you know that there are resources invested. I think we should try to do this job: knowing that everything we have done is important and it is certainly a step forward even though I do not think it is yet enough, because we will have to do more and gain even more centrality, even more resources. We really will have to change the point of view of this issue. I end up in the way I opened my speech. I think we need a great public debate that concerns everyone, all political forces, of majority and opposition, because the Italian school is of everyone, not of someone, not of one government rather than of another, it is of all and of all. [[Applause]] I believe that the social partners, the trade unions and all those in school who work and are there must of course be involved. I think that students must be involved because for too many years - we can also say this here - even if the school should start with students, this seemed almost a secondary issue, but that is not the case: we must put the students back at the centre of the political debate. I mean, we have to try to open a debate, knowing that we have taken a first step, a small step. We are of course aware that the road will not be easy - and I am done - but I believe that if we get there in this way and with this head, we can actually take a step forward. We're gonna try hard and hope we can do this for real. [[Comments. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u47	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you, you are always kind. Since there has been a great deal of reply from the representative of the Government (which we are pleased to hear, because we have been objectively told some interesting things) we regret, however, that we have not been told at what point is the drafting of the maxi amendment: we wonder if perhaps it would not have been appropriate to suspend the sitting and then start again. I thank the Undersecretary for having entertained us so punctually, but I also thank him because he is telling us today, while the question of trust is about to be raised, that we could all be involved, whereas in reality...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u48	Senator Gallone, please. In fact, you anticipated the Minister's request for intervention for relations with Parliament. Please, Mr D'Incà.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the 7th Commission finished its work in the late afternoon of yesterday's day. The maxi amendment was built in the night and in these moments the boiling is being carried out at the General Accounting Office of the State. I am therefore calling for a suspension of the work of this House until 12 p.m., so that the text can be presented and then put the question of trust, as indicated at the Conference of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u50	I suspend the sitting until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.15 a.m. and resumed at 12.19 p.m.) The session is resumed. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u51	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment transposing the amendments proposed by the Commission in the referent, entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u52	In the light of the Minister's statement confirming the correspondence of the amendment to the text approved by the Commission, the Presidency shall assess the amendment itself admissible under Rule 161 (3)-b of the Rules of Procedure. He again asked the Minister for relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1774, of conversion to law of Decree-Law No 22 of 8 April 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u54	The Presidency takes note of the question of confidence in the adoption of the fully replacement amendment submitted by the Government and, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, forwards the text of the amendment to the Budget Commission, which is now authorised to convene. I invite the Conference of Leaders to organise the debate on the issue of trust. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m. and resumed at 12.59 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u55	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the Decree-Law on the conclusion and start of the school year and the conduct of state examinations. One hour was allocated for the general discussion, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will follow and he calls it, orientarily around 3:00 p.m., in which each senator will vote from the place and declare his vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u56	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under discussion today and on which confidence has been placed is very important and necessary, given the time needed to regulate the conduct of state examinations in a serene, safe and effective manner. We in Italy Viva have proposed many improved amendments to the decree-law, in order to ensure that our schools, but above all our children, could enjoy the quality and professionalism of which we have been discussing for some time, but which is always difficult to realize for the most varied reasons that I am not here to list, but on which I would like to open a discussion also with the Minister, whom I greet and thank for the work he has carried out. That is why we are counting on everyone's commitment, especially our Minister, who will certainly, after this particular and critical phase for all, be able to address every issue in the most appropriate way, using Parliament, which is the institution that gives voice to Italy. Among the various proposals, today we in Italy Viva can boast the acceptance of the amendment (so its inclusion in the text) on school building, which is part of our shock plan on infrastructure, for which are immediately available as many as two billion euros without any bureaucracy; these resources are already in the state coffers and can finally be used to secure our school buildings and to make them even more beautiful, as already foreseen during the Renzi government the measure on beautiful and safe schools. The school is the basis of cultural formation and the garrison of the learning of the values of our Constitutional Charter and it is important that we begin to talk about it again in a more appropriate and appropriate way, giving it the necessary importance, to allow the formation of the personality of our children and our children, but above all to allow Italy to have a future ruling class that, if we work well together, will be composed on the basis of merit and competence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u57	Mr President, in the meantime, I would like to wish the Minister every success, partly because of what has happened these days, although I shall now express a vision perhaps not quite in agreement with the one outlined in the amendments that have been adopted. Meanwhile, I would like to point out that the decree-law under consideration was born within the framework of the emergency by Covid 19 and also the vision of the post-Covid 19 school. Moreover, one of the Leitmotiv that followed and which led me to propose some solutions is also related to the fact that the good ideas are not right or left and this is one of the cornerstones of the Movimento 5 Stars since its foundation. I listened carefully to the speech of the Undersecretary De Cristofaro that I found interesting; I will take inspiration from two points that he pointed out, that of the school for everyone and listening to the young people. I start from the second saying that listening to young people is absolutely fundamental, but I immediately conclude the observation by saying that listening must be critical and respectful of the freedom of young people, without conditioning any, and I think that this is an absolutely shared value. As far as school for all is concerned, I have listened carefully to the speeches and I think that there is some confusion about some of the terms of the matter. Private schools are confused with peer schools. I would like to point out that my children have always used the public service, by means of public service. I recall, however, that Law No 62 of 2000 clearly states that public school encompasses equal public school in itself. What do you mean? Let's leave the public school alone now and see the difference between private school and peer school. The private school does not receive state contributions, does not follow the programme established by the MIUR and has no state control; the public school instead is part of the public system and receives funding. Therefore, the reference to the Constitution that denies we say the contribution of economic contributions in relation to institutions or private, in this case falls, has no foundation. The programme that is being carried out within these schools is always in the context of ministerial planning, which it therefore takes absolutely into account and which are institutions which receive a State contribution. There is also another speech to be emphasized that concerns the geographical aspect and concerns the situation of some of these schools, for example, in the regions of the North. I am Sicilian and, therefore, you understand that I would go against my interests if I considered the role of senator simply as a confined within the geographical area in which you live or have been voted. We must then have a broader view of these issues. As for the family welfare in particular, in Italy we have a state welfare that also allows families that are not rich, in which there are two workers, husband and wife, who have need - perhaps not having the grandparents so daring - to have access to structures. These are the substantial differences, apart from the fact that the average cost of a pupil in the state school is 8,000 euros, while in the equal it is about 4,005 euros. So the risk of a loss of 30 percent of these facilities would mean 300,000 pupils arriving at the state in September. If we already have a social gap problem, let alone what would happen in that case. The last point I would like to highlight is mobility. I believe, I have said this in all ways and in various places, that it is appropriate for September to review the supplementary national collective agreement. In percentages we must allow a reorder within the chessboard Italy. It is true that in the Centre-South the chairs available are lower than in the North, but this too can be covered if we are talking about a reduction of pupils by class. In short, we should put ourselves around a table and reflect on this aspect. Even if we are not in an explanation of vote, I can say that all this does not mean that I will vote for confidence, precisely because of a sense of responsibility towards the children who are going to have to take the state exams. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u58	Mr President, today's opportunity to speak in the general debate on the important measure we are considering should not be wasted. If we had decided to move directly to the explanations of vote, we would have been available anyway (the colleague of Brothers of Italy, Senator Iannone, who will present our decision on the vote and the reasons, will be exhaustive). It is therefore up to me to examine just a few political aspects of this vote and this day. Today it happens that we vote on a school held prisoner throughout the period of Covid 19, without any prospect of exit, because while in other countries it was immediately understood in which direction you wanted to go, to us - with all due respect, Minister - you have discussed - but it is a kind way to say that you have argued heavily - on what prospect to have our school take, on how to start the end of the school year, on contracts, or even better on how to settle with the precarious. It was a waving that, in the opinion of the speaker, ended up with nothing in fact, with a sort of decision not to decide, starting again with the precarious as usual and then seeing in progress what happens. What is more serious, however, in my opinion, is that on an occasion like this once again the decision is taken, almost entirely outside the possibility of intervention by Chamber and Senate. The House will not even be able to look at this provision, because it will come to an end and the Senate itself will decide whether it has been able to really examine it in its delicacy and completeness. I believe that school cannot be treated in this way: school is the place where we form future generations, where the state must give its best, where certain conflicts between public and private schools cannot find space. What does it take to understand the importance of the presence of private school, parified and not, next to that sacrosanct public school? What's it gonna take to agree on this? It is not that we need this whole debate. I believe that this matter could not be resolved with yet another confidence. Once again, the government takes refuge behind the confidence, once again a great amendment, dear Senator Iannone, who will then have to point by point try to make us understand our deep criticism of the government's work. The government has taken refuge behind the saying yes or no, because trust means this, otherwise this government has no confidence. This Parliament will give you confidence, but I do not know how much confidence you have from the voters: when will you ask the voters for confidence? When will you ask the Italians if they want this government or another? Soon we will vote for the regionals, there will also be the alibi for which we cannot vote in the coronavirus period because we will vote not only in the regions concerned but for the referendum on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, rightly, we will vote throughout Italy. Trust, then, ask the Italians, let's see what kind of government they want. On a day like this, I remember a person I had the opportunity to know only marginally, but alas forty years ago I was already there when Tobagi was murdered by a group of aspiring brigadeists. It was a kind of mature examination to enter the red brigades: they had to kill a brave, helpless journalist and they did it. I quote him to remember him, to honor him, but also to remind all of us that from difficult times Italy has passed and brave people there was, like Tobagi, that a few days before his death had written an article attacking the red brigades, saying that they were not invincible samurai. As well as, five years earlier, a seventeen - year - old boy had written a theme in the classroom against the red brigades and had paid with his life, five years later Tobagi wrote an article and pays with his life. We have gone through difficult times and we have come out with courage, strength and even unity when it was necessary. In those years we never imagined to say: "Be good, you can't vote; be good, command only the Government". He didn't do it who was in the government, and we were in the opposition. There is no alibi today for what is happening. It gives me great hope that, on the occasion of the tour of the Trecce tricolori that are going through all the places of suffering in Italy, people gather spontaneously in the squares and streets, keeping their distance, to applaud that moment of passage of a symbol of our identity and our homeland. I repeat, this gives me hope. It saddens me that the mayor of Bologna told his citizens not to go out at the passage of the Trecce tricolori and to be careful not to join in the squares. It might as well not let the Tricolored Arrows pass through; or do you want them to pass through and people not look at them? It is the example of the inconsistency of the directives of this Government: the Tricolored Arrows yes, but the mayor says: "Don't look." I conclude by not sinking the blow on the measures contained in the measure (repeat, this will be provided by Senator Iannone) but on the inadequacy of this Government, which I begin to suspect has - with the alibi, for charity sometimes justified, of the danger of contagion - almost pleasure to keep as long as possible a state of subjection of the electoral body and a claim of silence towards the opposition. This little game can't last. The measure under consideration is proof that we are not yet in a position to have a Government able to give clear, ready and definitive answers that the school, teachers, students and their families absolutely deserve. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u59	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis that has hit the whole world over the last few months and of which we can only now cautiously see the containment has marked our time and upset the balance of our everyday lives in depth. The emergency has forced all of us to revisit - we could say to re-inhabit - our habits and to rethink also the typical needs and needs of our lives, adapting them to the need to contain the risks of an expansion of the contagions and of course obliging us to new relational modalities, very often compressing our rights and our freedoms. What we are experiencing is a time of extraordinaryness in many respects and above all for the reflections on our personal freedoms and in the relational dimension, which is emotional and affective. That is why it is very important to continue the debate that is taking place in this House today, so that we can have the opportunity of a debate that does not end today, but can continue very carefully in further steps. It is true, it has been and is still a difficult time and we have all been called - and we are still - to look at and understand our lives. I think, of course, because this is what we are discussing, in the world of school and young people, about that space of vitality, formation and education that so much dignity and attention should always and continuously call upon itself. School is the place where space and time experience difficulties, but where the individual each time, small or large, learns to understand and understand himself in the approach to the other. The school is the place where critical thinking develops and helps us to read and interpret the pages of the world. Institutions and families have been able to bear the incalculable weight of complex decisions, but it is precisely during this emergency that it was necessary - and still must - to demonstrate that they are up to a new time and that they are able to draw a future that is increasingly attentive to educational needs and relationships, thinking of school not as a separate space, but as an indispensable articulation of society. This is where we must combine our political will, in the capacity - which we must have - to put in place a network in which skills, integrated in trusted connections, help to regenerate the whole community and its sense of belonging. Only when each individual, who grows in the school and needs it, becomes aware of the responsibilities he is the bearer of can actively participate in the construction of places of community, where this concept means having awareness of oneself and others. That is why the institutions must now take responsibility for giving concrete answers (but they will still have to continue to do so), first of all to educational poverty, school dispersions and above all to that terrain of inequality which unfortunately does not help growth and which, instead, I think must be one of the issues to which we are all called to respond. Those are the real distances, the inequality first of all, on which it is necessary to intervene with firmness, will and also ability to find a healthy and just balance between the parties that are discussing today about such an important measure. We are called to accompany the phase of closing the emergency with a perspective, which realizes with force the commitment to resolve social emergencies, draining, as I said, any syntax of inequality. We are now faced with an important moment: it is obvious that the measure contains so many points on which we have already discussed and on which I imagine those who will carry out the explanations of vote will be able to insist. So let us say that, within the measure, we have taken so many steps together, we have tried to do so. It is obvious that there are still situations that deserve further attention, but I think that the whole majority is willing to put in the field authority and answers, especially serious ones. It is important, however, to make a point: the work done in the Commission has also seen moments of difficulty, however, born from the desire to set the point on the central issues and to address, above all, those relating to the world of children and teachers. In this regard, it was also important that the subject - which sees progress, but which will still see us engaged - be concerned with extraordinary competitions for the recruitment of teachers. It is obvious that there is still work to be done on this and that, above all, it is possible to lay the foundations for following up the desire for an even more precise articulation that takes into account the needs of precarious teachers. However, it is very important that everything that we are going to approve today with a vote of confidence does not remain just a niche of reasoning, but rather becomes an overall idea that concerns society and deserves the attention of politics. To conclude, Mr President, trust is not and never can only be a summary act, but rather assumes the meaning of a commitment of all of us, who are called with responsibility to give concrete answers to the government of this country. It is a commitment, ours, that must pursue with responsibility the ambition to build also a new face of the school system, with the look on the future generations, but above all the recognition of the centrality and dignity of a function that deserves so much respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u61	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u62	Mr President, Minister, I have heard, during the speeches before me (at least one part) and in the past hours, that the same majority have a thousand doubts about this decree-law, but vote for confidence. I come back to last week's sitting when there were a thousand doubts about the Minister of Justice, but the Minister of Justice was saved. The country does not need doubts and confidence in armchairs: the country needs certainties on measures that we are convinced of. [[Applause]] That is in my opinion, but it will be my impression. On the subject, I have heard some ideological prejudice not only on the subject of school, Minister, but on the whole area of private initiative in general. I read this morning on the "Corriere della sera" that on June 4th there will be an online strike of all the free professionals in the private sector, who felt discriminated against by the Government: nurses, engineers, architects, accountants, psychologists, job consultants. Today we have heard words that I don't like about public equality, but also about private school, as if the words "private," "autonomous" and "free" in this House bothered someone. We cannot afford ideological prejudices. [[Applause]] Of course, the public school comes first, but the 900,000 children of the public peer schools, if the ideological prejudice that erases them by stroke of pen passes, where do they go? Where do the 180,000 workers and teachers of equal public schools go? Do we recognize this country's right to freedom of education and freedom of enterprise or is it always the State, State and State that must decide, control and finance? No, I think a free country has the right to have free parents, free teachers and free students. So, I hope you will stop with this statist and centralist ideological prejudice. [[Applause]] We come to the numbers: 8 million students (so 8 million families), 800,000 teachers, plus all the rest of the school staff. Zero odds after almost four months. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u63	Senator Zuliani, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u64	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let us look at what is happening around us in Europe. Today we are surrounded, Minister, by European countries that, with their ministers and governments, have given certainty to families. Now in France there are 1.5 million children in class, divided into 40,000 schools. Today children are at school in Switzerland, today children are at school in Austria, today children are at school in Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Finland. Everywhere, today, children are at school; teachers do their work and parents have certainties. We are here today at the end of May to see that perhaps a few young people will return to the classroom in September: that is not normal. Allow me: there is no phase 2 if you do not start again from children and students. Or the others are crazy. Of course, children are in a distance class, protected, protected, ten or fifteen per class and no more. However, allow me to say that if someone is leading our students by distance teaching and lack of social contact, you have not understood anything: the child needs to go to the classroom with his companions. [[Applause]] And this also applies to the university, unless someone attacks private school in words, but wants to help in fact the private university that has some contact with some movement currently in the government. I am for public university, free, open and attended by all. [[Applause.]] There is little and nothing for students out of office and I thank the Italian Regions that, from North to South, are doing in this case also what the Government has not done. It is not possible that there are parents who are in debt to pay for months the approximately 500 euros of house rent for their children without them enjoying it. We would have expected more. With regard to zero bureaucracy, which the President of the Council is filling in his mouth, there is a ready project by the Union of Italian Provinces - as the League we make available to you on the table - which has plans to set up 1,747 Italian schools. The planned expenditure is EUR 2 billion and EUR 100 million. Since Europe will fill us with a bunch of billions - which is already money paid by the Italians - we ask you to put aside two of them to set up schools where our children go to study, if it is not too much. [[Applause.]] On the teachers we witnessed until yesterday the battle of life by the PD, which however - evidently for the sake of armchair, with alternate plates - finished fighting. Inconsistent appropriations are provided for recruitment. Already in the past years it was difficult for all teachers in their classes to be present on the first day of school reopening and to be in their place. This year there will be another 30,000 pensions and there will be no hiring. You have had the idea - in my opinion - of the odd contest for tens of thousands of teachers. Have you explained to us that everyone needs to stay at home and that going to the aperitif at Milvio bridge is a danger and now you plan to make tens of thousands of teachers go around Italy? Agree with yourself. In my opinion, it would be much more normal to draw from the rankings and finally give an indefinite contract to the tens of thousands of teachers who have been in those classes even for fifteen years, without driving the competitionists around and crazy for half of Italy. [[Applause.]] Perhaps even in this case there is an ideological prejudice to the precarious. In my opinion, those who have worked with those children for 15 years have gained more right and experience than those who arrive tomorrow morning, but maybe there is someone who feels superior than others. There are no more than others and we should be much more concrete than I think we are. We have made proposals and we have tabled dozens of amendments and agendas. At best, you told us that there was no room in the provision because it needed to be done quickly and there would be some in the next decree. In March, when there was the first decree and there was no money, you told us to stay calm because our proposals would be taken into account in the second decree. I don't know if we realized that every day that passes makes a difference for families: not everyone can afford the babysitter; not everyone has the luxury of being able to count on grandparents and not everyone has a house with garden. If you don't reopen the schools safely as soon as possible, you're complicit in this country's disaster. [[Applause.]] There is no economic restart with closed schools, closed speakers, closed day centres for disabled people and closed elderly centres. You explained to us until last year - and someone on the left continues to explain it - that at the age of seventy you are young and arzilli and, therefore, the Fornero law is right. Now, at the age of sixty-five, however, we must stay in the house and be useless to ourselves and to the world. Let us free the 60s and 70s of this country; let them go out, breathe and become grandparents again. [[Applause.]] We hope to be heard, Minister. We are little interested in the internal begas between Italy Viva, PD, LEU and 5 Stars that there are on justice, economy, MES, school. Already the quarrel is not pleasant in times of peace; less so for those moms and those dads who may be among that million Italians who are waiting for the integration fund from March and will see it perhaps in mid-June. It's like this and maybe some senator who shakes his head here doesn't know the problems of those who have been waiting for the integration fund for three months and has to be indebted to go shopping [[Applause]] One is worth one: weed grows on horseback! Unfortunately, still 1 million Italians - yesterday's data of the President of the INPS - waits for the Cassa Integrazione and of the 600 euros there are more than half a million questions rejected. So let's ask ourselves a question about how these decrees were made. Without taking quotes, our children are the future of this country and, if we do not restore trust in the sector of school and university, putting our children back at the centre and not the political bega, there will be no way to rebuild Italy. We are available, and we hope to be heard. Minister, you have all my personal solidarity and the Group that I represent for the threats that have been addressed to you. [[Applause),]] because one account is political criticism and another account is the threat or insult, which have no political asylum either in this House or outside. However, I ask you to consider whether the majority consider that they have a Minister of Justice not exactly adequate - but, for the sake of Fatherland, it is confirmed - and some of its members feel that they do not have a Minister of Education particularly appropriate - but, for the sake of Fatherland, it is reconfirmed - and that you are not doing good to the country. Free school from prejudice and political ideology. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u65	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u66	Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, colleagues, this is not what the school deserves. The school does not deserve a government and a majority that have privileged the waste of time with their internal discords, rather than compacting and creating a bipartisan alliance even with the minority, for the sake of the system of education everything, which represents the backbone of the country. Not content with this, after having kept us in the Commission waiting for the texts 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 - I do not give the numbers, but it is precisely so - of small-panniel amendments emptied and rendered useless, no support has been reached either for the emergency contingency or for solving old issues such as the stabilization of precarious people, even just to guarantee the children - I am speaking as a teacher - at least the educational continuity at a time already destabilising for them. We are not talking about the alliance that should have been consolidated between state public school and public peer school: the ideological fence on this issue, instead of being destroyed, has risen very high by making prevail, always within the same majority, the Jacobine state wing that has crushed under its feet the concepts of freedom expressed in the Constitution and putting in condition a tomorrow, if everything continues like this, even the state school of collapse. Just as every private initiative, which is mortified every day in the name of welfare and the use of money - finally, among other things, will arrive abundant from Europe, as the first had predicted and asked our President Silvio Berlusconi - will make Italy a country of beggars. You are annihilating young people - I have said this several times - from that income of citizenship that is truly disdainful for a country where ingenuity is the raw material. The school will become worse and worse, among other things, without an integrated public school system, which sees the state school and the equal one working together because, without a healthy and virtuous competition, there can be no stimulus to improvement. I said this yesterday by explaining the question that we had presented as the last bulwark to stop this measure, which I do not define, because it is not my custom to use words that are not appropriate. The school - I said yesterday - is the country in the country, it is the business card of a nation and the mindset of those who guide it. It is clear therefore: today, with the umpteenth and intolerable question of trust that you put, among other things at first reading, without even giving the possibility to at least one branch of Parliament to intervene, you definitively kill every possibility of making the country grow all, and this we should have done really in honor of those who have remained on the ground after this emergency. And you do so, moreover, continuing to distract us because, to hear the words of the Undersecretary De Cristofaro, who has long drawn his speech - I hope to spend sincere words and not only to lengthen the stock and allow the government and the majority to find the last agreement on the maxi amendment - from today - as he said - we will have to work together, majority and opposition; we will have to listen to the teachers, students and families. Can I smile, Government? May I smile, Minister? Let me tell you that this is called mocking not us senators, who, however, represent the citizens, but the whole country - mocking - and this is criminal - the sacred places of education, education, training, knowledge, sociality; those places which are still sadly closed today, which are waiting for even more closed minds, having agreed to put the question of trust and to proceed with a vote of confidence, finally allow them to reopen. But reopen how? Reopen leaving all the workload still on the shoulders of school leaders, teachers, students and families, without having solved even one of the problems that have plagued the school world for too long. Distance learning and hybrid school are not school. Today we are sad, not angry, not glued, but only very sad because, when we see you clapping, it will be like when in distant times he applauded burning the books. Do you know what the first educational model is, the one from which children begin to learn from the first vagination? It is the example and yours today, closing and entrenching you behind a confidence that has seen the abjuration of principles even within the majority, the abjuration of the Democratic Party that voted against itself, is the worst example. Trust, once again, you will only receive it in here. You'll give it to yourself because out of who you betrayed you will never take it from. You're killing hope, the most effective vaccine. You're killing trust. You're killing freedom. What will happen from now on will be all your responsibility, because you didn't want to share anything with us. So it will all be your full responsibility. Italo Calvino said: "A country that destroys its school never does it only for money, because the resources are lacking, or the costs are excessive. A country that demolishes education is already governed by those who have only to lose from the spread of knowledge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u67	She's enlisted to speak Senator Floridia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u68	Minister, on behalf of Movimento 5 Stars, I am expressing not only our solidarity, but clearly and obviously our confidence in a simple fact. I have been working at school for almost 20 years: I have seen, heard and suffered, so much so that I know that many of the things that were said yesterday and today in this House are really imprecise, ridiculous in some cases. It is my duty to clarify one important point and I regret that Senator Salvini, as always, has left the Chamber after speaking. Meanwhile for the oppositions this provision had to put a piece and arrange, reorganize and rearrange a school system enchanted for twenty years. Therefore, in one measure you should have solved the problem of precariousness; to give certainty to the pandemic, which certainties does not have; to resettle the school building: this in a provision. Yet, many things have been done. For me it is important to say one thing: the League was in the government with Gelmini when Gelmini cut 7 billion in the school. [[Applause.]] But it's not just that. I speak from experience because - believe me - teaching Latin in a class of 33 boys in a high school in Schio, in the province of Vicenza, was very complicated. We had up to 33 kids in our class, and Gelmini passed a law against the Security Act. That's crazy! [[Applause.]] We too - as Salvini says - would like, as in Europe, classes of 15 boys; classes in which I taught, in Lipari, where the boys were 13. And it's beautiful to teach with 13 students: the quality of teaching is fantastic. Give us time, though. Minister Azzolina managed to give the school more than a billion, and it is not a game, while Gelmini removed seven billion. Of course, schools open in Europe, but does Salvini know that the school system is different? From us the school, between the end of May and the first days of June, closes. In other countries of Europe, this does not happen. It closes - for example - only a few days, in August or October. We also need to know the school systems. Minister, let's open schools now, in June, now that the school year is over. [[Applause.]] But then, with what criterion, in September, can we give certainties for a pandemic that does not have certainties? The Minister's certainty is to provide solutions for the different scenarios. If the scenario is disastrous, we will have a solution; if we are safe, the solution is already there, and it is to go back to class. So, it seems to me that there is certainty. In the face of uncertain scenarios, we have already prepared certain answers for each of them. [[Applause.]] Last but not least: the DAD, the Didactics in Distance, is not good. But no one has chosen to do the Teaching at Distance by whim, because they want to replace the direct teaching and in person with the DaD. It was a necessity, an urgency, not to leave the kids alone, and it is clear that we all found ourselves in difficulty. As for school money, someone said yesterday, inaccurately, that they didn't know where they were. All you had to do was call the landlords and ask if the money had arrived. I did and I was told that they had arrived and they were distributing the devices to the kids who needed it. And this was done by the Minister and, not once, but twice. [[Applause.]] Clearly, we had to have time. The pandemic happened, the kids stayed home and it took the technical time to get the money. It was a very fast time. Sure, we'll try to do more. A lot of guys had no connection, it's true. So instead of talking about the usual great works, concentrated in a small part of the country, why don't we talk about the real infrastructures, which are the digital ones? Now everyone is talking about our issues, Minister. Now they're awake! [[Applause.]] Therefore, I renew them, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, our trust, and not only because I believe in your work and believe in this Government, but also because, in addition to being a particularly prepared and determined person, let me say that you are a woman and perhaps this pushes you further than others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u69	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. Pending the completion of its work by the Budget Commission, I will suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 13.49 p.m. and resumed at 3.12 p.m.) I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,800, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u70	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,800, relating to the bill in title, transmitted by the Shareholders' Meeting, expresses, as far as it is of its own competence, opinion not precluded conditional, pursuant to Article 81 to the Constitution, the deletion of the following provisions: Article 1, paragraph 3, letter a)-bis; Article 1-a; Article 1-b; Article 2, paragraph 1, letter a)-bis; Article 2, paragraph 6-a, 6-b and 6-c; Article 2-c; Article 4, paragraph 1-a, and Article 4-b. The opinion is also conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the following amendments: in Article 1, paragraph 7-c, after the words: "of the pupil in home education" add the following: "with the employment of the staff already in service at the school institution." In Article 1, paragraph 7-d, after the words "as referred to in paragraph 7-c " add the following: "does not authorise the replacement of staff employed e." In Article 2, paragraph 4-b, the following changes shall be made: after the words "provision and" the following shall be inserted: "procedures"; after the words: "and educational" the following shall be inserted: "with the exception of any aspect relating to the constitution and composition of posts to be added"; after the words: "in paragraph 1" the following shall be inserted: "in order to identify and grade the aspirants"; the word "heard" shall be replaced by the following: "heard simultaneously"; after the words: "present decree-law" the following shall be inserted: "and the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the financial aspects, which shall verify in the same term"; the word "five" shall be replaced by the following: "fifth." The following period shall be added at the end of Article 2-a (4): "The members of the technical table shall not be entitled to any remuneration, allowances, reimbursements of expenses or tokens of presence denominated in any case." In Article 7-d, paragraph 2, the words: "to be adopted within 30 days of the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree" are replaced by the following: "within the financial limits indicated therein" and the words: "in the case of positive evaluation by the National Agency for the Evaluation of Universities and Research" are deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u73	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as a member of the 5th Commission, I would like to ask you to clarify certain situations. First of all, this is a very important measure. I have heard all my colleagues, both minority and majority, stress in their speeches the importance of this decree-law, which keeps in mind so many students, but not only students; I have heard the words of forgotten children. I would therefore like to stress the importance of drawing up a document that can meet the resumption of normal school activity, from early childhood onwards, and of course everything that revolves around the great school system. I am a member of the 5th Commission and it is well known that all the decree-laws which also have an economic content come into that Commission. I do not go into the substance of the wording of this document and its technical content, because we know that and there has been a debate. On the other hand, I would like to talk about the working methods of the 5th Commission, which I say clearly today were shameful, because we manage public money. [[Applause]] The first thing I am asking in this House is that the work of the 5th Commission be made public not only within the Senate, but that it be made public, so that citizens can see how we work and where the money is put. [[Applause]] It is not possible, Mr President, for this to happen during the examination of such an important document. I remind you that a great mess has already happened with the Italian care measure; today the second big, unnamed mess has happened. [[Applause]] The money and the amendments, onerous and not, danced in the morning, in the evening and were given opinions under Article 81 of the Constitution, without technical report, with an opinion that is either simple or contrary to half, as if it were an upside-down game on the stock market. This is public money, it's money for our kids, and it's a shame that a Commission is being used to be the clearing house of the troubles in the majority. [[Applause]] The 5th Commission is not the clearing house. [[Applause.]] Mr President, many times President Pesco shakes his beautiful blond curls, but - I am sorry to have to tell you - yesterday he called me back heavily because I referred to the remarks of his majority and I made them mine. I'm from the League and I referred to the observations of two senators. In these comments, they themselves denounced a non-linear situation which must be clarified. I'm allowed. He has rightly taken me back because he is a President and told me that it is not good and that he was not the right Commission. You probably didn't think my intervention was correct at the time. So, I'm doing it here without a problem in front of all the senators. The 5th Commission from now on works with the right rules: if it is for Article 81, it will be so; if there is the technical report well, otherwise it will not bring out any more documents because we will be able to avail ourselves of all possibilities, from President Casellati, to President Mattarella to Conte, to everyone and we will publicly report that the money in this assembly is not managed correctly. [[Live and prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u75	Colleagues, allow Senator Picchetto Fratin to intervene and please make the silence, otherwise I will be forced to call you nominally.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u76	I call Senator Pichetto Fratin. PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, there have indeed been procedural and political problems. I am talking about procedural problems because it has happened several times now that there are wordings and rewordings of various amendments of the Commissions of merit which automatically oblige the 5th Commission to review the evaluations continuously. I am not completely negative about the Commission's working mechanism budget; I am negative about the system that has been established in relation to the references to the 5th Commission and its opinions. In fact, as I said in the Commission, there has been no appreciation of the substance of what has been said in the text of the maxi amendment to the vote in this House, because it has been taken into account the positions expressed by the Budget Commission and not those taken into account in the Commission on the substance. Therefore, we agree so far. The question is, however, political and concerns the behaviour of the majority. President, it has happened in the budget law of 2019 with the night chaos; it has happened again lately with the care of Italy with the beginning of the explanations of vote in the Chamber without the presence of the maxi amendment. [[Applause.]] Today it happened that the maxi amendment came to the Commission with a number of comments and was re-modified in the Commission because we note that the majority did not agree on the path; the majority did not have a position. Therefore, the opinion of the 5th Commission was used to stop different positions or, better, to take time on different positions in the majority. [[Applause.]] Therefore, the opposition's request is not merely a procedural one and refers to the regularity of the opinion. And perhaps we exaggerate in the requests for a technical report: I would like to remind you that the obligation for a technical report exists only for the amendments of the Government. [[Applause.]] Parliament is still sovereign in relation to the General Accountant of the State. The General Accountant of the State is paid, he rightly does his job, but I consider myself superior. [[Applause.]] This is what I am saying here and I continue to do in the Commission, where we are all too frequently working against the opinion expressed by the Government, on behalf of the General Accounting Office of the State. We must respect the Constitution, but we are the first to assess the respect of the Constitution; we must take this responsibility, not refer it back to the General Accountant of the State or to the opinion of the representative of the Government on duty. [[Applause.]] That is the fundamental point. Therefore, I would ask this Presidency to invite us not only to the Budget Commission, but to all of us, from President Pesco to myself, a humble member of the Commission, on the method of working with respect to the other Commissions and, first of all, to the method of working with the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u77	Of course, these are political remarks, because the procedure is well known.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u80	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, frankly, I do not understand what stage we are at in our debate. [[Brusio.]] Don't worry, I always listen and there's no need to mess up. We have already had the opportunity - even when there was the previous government - to discuss the subject of Article 81, calmly and calmly, so that the Presidency has also spoken only on Article 81. This argument has to be done, it's right and I'm going to do it again. Those in the 5th Commission are well aware that I support this debate and this issue should be clarified before I was in opposition and now I am in the majority. It's got nothing to do with the rest. This debate is necessary and the Commission has worked as well as it had to work with regard to a complex dynamic. Have there been problems in the majority? Yeah, but what's the discovery? Yes, but it has nothing to do with the subject of Article 81 of the Constitution. As my colleagues know, I have also discussed with President Pesco, but I do not agree with the judgment given earlier by a senator. Moreover, in full respect of the Accounting and its function, it is right to acknowledge that there is a role of Accounting, a role of the Commission, a role of Parliament and a role of the Government. That is the point that we will have to clarify, and I also say this by stressing a certain level of criticality in the relationship between the Government, the majority and the Commission. But at the moment we leave things as they are, in order to avoid making more chaos, after which there is no solution to a problem that, in my opinion, is there.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u83	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, when I accepted the task of chairing the Senate Budget Committee, I knew that I would be attacked, but such an attack, ladies and gentlemen, I did not expect it, I really did not expect it, but it is. [[Comments.]] If the Budget Committee had given its opinion on costly amendments without the right quantifications or cover-ups, then I would have understood attacks of this kind; these attacks would, in my opinion, have been legitimate. The budget committee has, however, done something quite different. The Budget Commission has examined the amendments, has taken a look at the opinion of the General Accounting Office of the State and, where the Accounting Office has raised doubts and serious doubts about the honesty by saying that certain measures cost, we could not do otherwise: we could not say that those measures were no longer expensive, because that is the case. We respect the law: if the General Accounting of the State tells us that certain interventions cost, to be able to implement them need cover. If there are no covers, we cannot implement those measures: it is a very simple speech. [[Applause]] We have given opinions of opposition, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on certain amendments which, after arriving in the Commission on the substance, have been voted on and adopted, contrary to what the budgetary rules lay down; which meant that the Accounting Office has taken over everything and said no because those amendments cost and because they are not properly and adequately covered, it is necessary to remove them. It's very simple. From here, too, the lengths and so on. Not to mention the process in the Commission, since I have been attacked on this too. The Senate has a procedure, in my opinion legitimate, so any amendment can be reworded several times. That is not the case in the House, but here it is: it is good, it is good, the amendment can be improved. However, every time the amendment is perfected, it is re-evaluated, it is called into question and re-analysed and, if it costs, and there are no covers, it cannot be carried forward, it is a very simple thing, but unfortunately this too is not appreciated. [[Applause]] I have also been accused of murky work: these words have been used in the Commission. But what dull work? We read the opinions of the Accounting and even distributed them to show that it was not a dull work, that there was nothing unusual, that they were written opinions on paper; yet no, yet we worked badly. What should we do? [[Comments]] Everyone has them, colleagues. Your group leaders have them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u84	First of all, I would like to ask my colleagues from the League and the President of the 5th Commission to address the Presidency. Secondly, as it should have been, I have also allowed speeches with the vehemence of the parties who have spoken, but now allow President Pesco to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u85	I thank everyone for the work they have done and we will continue to do in the Budget Committee. Personally, I will always work in full and total transparency, in the interests of everyone, the country, the citizens and, above all, the state accounts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u88	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, after a week or perhaps more of the opposition's expectations to know the majority's opinion on the decree-law, but very late, after the fights, the twitter messages, warnings, threats and agreements that then last half a day or half an hour, at least spare us victimism, because the victims are on this side of the House: it is we who are waiting on the part of the majority to know what the hell he wants to do with this decree-law. [[Applause]] The patience and institutional sense we have shown has a limit, Mr Pesco and colleagues of the majority. It is now 3.30 p.m. and we have been waiting to see what is written in the maxi amendment since this morning. Already yesterday, speaking, both I and my colleagues denounced - and we said so before at the Conference of the Leaders - this unacceptable, unacceptable, intolerable distortion, on which I hope the President of the Republic will soon also be able to say something. We have urgent decrees and only these; decrees on which confidence is placed at first reading for delays, omissions and weaknesses of the majority. In addition, on the eve of the vote of confidence, there is a new chaos, so it is not clear who is in charge of the majority. If the government is in charge, Minister, will you tell us a word today? A word about what's going on? Will you tell us what you think of this major amendment, of the opinion of the General Accounting Office? If the opinion of the Accounting Office is also yours or is it just a technical body? These aren't minor matters. Here it is necessary to understand whether Parliament is in charge (not the right or the left, but if Parliament is in charge) or whether Mr Biagio Mazzotta is in charge, which at this moment, pro tempore, is the General Accountant of the State. If, in fact, Mr. Biagio Mazzotta is in charge, we can also give up coming here every morning to Parliament and ask him for the final choices. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to point out that, if there was no confidence on this occasion, amendments already with the contrary opinion under Rule 81 were put to the vote by the Senate Presidency. This is to testify and certify the fact that Parliament is supreme. Parliament's will goes beyond the will of the State Accountant. [[Applause.]] Therefore, if Parliament has decided that an amendment must pass, it passes and the cover can be found even later. It can be found with another decree-law, with another subsequent provision, but it is essential to reiterate this aspect. After that, it does not mean that it is right, but it is certain that the General Accountant of the State cannot decide in the place of the majority in this case. We want to see whether the majority agrees with what has happened. Therefore, we cannot tolerate this state of affairs. We cannot, once again, vote in the dark, not knowing whether the provisions we are voting on are those of the majority, the government, the minister or simply a technical body that has not been elected by anyone. If the Minister, again on this occasion, and I tell him with the greatest possible civilization, will not say a single word to explain his position, we will have to easily deduce that the Minister of Education is not called Lucia Azzolina but is called Biagio Mazzotta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u91	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, I should just like to make it clear that a fallacious representation of the facts has been given, because the opposition's amendments have been, with great willingness by the Minister's Ministry and staff, reworded repeatedly, to allow everyone to have a chance of making them pass. An amendment by the rapporteur has also been stopped under Rule 81. So, if there were any intention to intervene politically on those amendments, that is absolutely not the case, because our amendments have also been stopped. That's to clarify. Moreover, having an amendment reworded five, six, seven times has obviously led us to conclude the work today and, practically, to keep a construction site open for forty days. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u93	But on what, President Pittoni? Because now there have been speeches that we have taken on the order of business. We must now move on to the final explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u94	PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, simply to reply to President Pesco that the amendment... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u95	Senator Pittoni, colleagues, there are now explanations of vote. Honestly, we have to move on. [[Protests.]] All the interventions have been given space. The President of the Budget Commission was expected to speak and then there were interventions for each Group. Let's keep going. Please, Minister. [[Comments. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u97	About what? PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). For a brief clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u98	[[Applause]] I would ask you to be brief in that the matter has already been dealt with. PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to give a quick example: Amendment 2.0.8 on special enabling routes. This is a rule already used in 2013 (i.e. with the green light of the Budget Commission); in this case, the same proposal is rejected in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. It seems to me to be a political choice, nothing else. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u99	I ask the government to speak on the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u100	Mr President, I clearly accept the indications of the General Accounting of the State. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u101	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u104	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, representatives of the Government, I would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the Minister with the threats he has received these days. I believe that when a minister is forced to travel with escort it is a defeat of freedom and democracy for all. [[Applause]] Lockdown was a period of emptiness and deprivation for all Italians, but nothing impacted as much as closing schools. The school was part of our daily landscape and it took the coronavirus to remind us that it scanned our lives, in a ritual that every morning was celebrated, from the Aosta Valley to Sicily, from the Capital to the smallest of the mountain municipalities. By assisting children in study sessions, many Italians have fully understood the value and commitment of teachers and teachers and have seen the generous effort of institutions to organize distance teaching, helping the less well-off to receive a tablet and a connection. Our task, therefore, is to do everything possible to get the school out of this story stronger and more important than before. The Italian school - it is well known - has several problems: a teaching staff that is among the oldest and among the least paid in Europe and children immersed in precariousness. But also the problems related to school construction and the succession of reforms and counter-reforms have generated confusion on the educational paths, up to the alarming OECD data on the level of preparation of young Italians in the scientific disciplines and the ability to understand complex texts. In essence, between structural problems and problems caused by coronavirus, the school today needs certainties above all. One of the positive facts is that the children will certainly support the test of maturity at school because, as you mentioned, Minister, it is not only an examination but a rite of transition to adulthood. The reopening of school camps is also good, although I regret that the impossibility of reopening schools as has happened in other countries has been taken for granted; perhaps in some cases one could try to do so. We must not forget that closing mainly affects the most fragile and socially exposed groups: I think of those children and young people who only have a chance of learning and cultural stimulus in school, but I also think of the free professionals and precarious workers who risk being excluded from the world of work in order to follow their children, and this applies especially to women. To all this is added the chapter of the assumptions. The teaching rules are so entangled that they have led to a situation in which the rights of one often conflict with the rights of the other; this field would require the ability of one miner and above all the commitment not to change policies of direction between one government and the other. We believe that the main urgency is too precarious, which has made the school the largest temporary agency in the country. For this reason, initially, as a Group, we were in favour of a stabilisation process, also in order to avoid a further element of uncertainty about the real possibilities of carrying out the public competition safely. However, it seems to me that the compromise reached with the Government after days is positive and that a step has been taken. We know that there are two competitions (one ordinary and one extraordinary) and we also know that with the so-called re-launched decree-law there will be an additional possibility of recruitment for another 16,000 teachers, so in the end we will touch almost the number of 80,000 teachers, who will thus be able to pass in role if they pass the competition. There is therefore specific attention to this sector also to protect the continuity of teaching and to prevent the problem of classes discovered every year. Moreover, we still remember the need to dissolve the node of the competition of the school leaders on which, after the decision of the TAR, is also expected that of the Council of State; an affair that however requires clarification as soon as possible. It was also important to open up to the request of the equal schools; on this we were able to do nothing but approve some agendas that will then have to be realized with the decree-law relaunch, where there has already been a first allocation of 70 million for the failures, to which are added 65 million more for the kindergartens. Important resources have also been allocated in the decree-law to ensure the safety of schools, which is necessary to allow the start of the next school year. Among these measures I am thinking of the purchase of personal protective equipment (DPI), the strengthening of technological tools, support for disabled students. This is an important plan of interventions from which, unfortunately, to date, special autonomous schools are excluded. I have already started a political confrontation with the technicians of the Ministry to ensure that in the conversion of the decree-law also the schools of the Aosta Valley and South Tyrol can benefit from these important measures. If, in fact, the theme is security, it makes no sense to make distinctions that would require limiting the effectiveness of interventions, in order to make the reopening of the school year more difficult in the autonomous regions and provinces. I therefore trust in your sensitivity, Minister, and in your attention to this particular issue, but we have already had some first positive signs in this regard. For our part, we will continue to urge and follow this point with great attention, to ensure that all students are guaranteed the same security rights and a proper start for the next school year. Finally, on special autonomy, I would like to mention the approval of our Group's amendment at the first signature of Senator Durnwalder, which will allow students from the evening schools of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano to take the state exams in the ordinary session. To conclude, Minister, we know well that everyone who had responsibilities as a government at this stage had to move on a difficult and unknown ground, in which it was often very difficult to imagine what would happen with the development of the virus. In expressing a favourable vote on the measure for our examination, we expect more clarity on the programming of the next school year, starting with how we will react if - and none of us wish - a new wave of viruses occurs. We cannot imagine that all schools are closing down or that there is no prevention plan in line with economic and social activities. We cannot imagine a school that returns to the ranks; as with health care we have discovered its immense value, we try to protect it and value it to the full. It is with this strong hope that I will reiterate my vote in favour of the Group's confidence in the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u107	I would warn colleagues that during the speeches they are asked to leave the benches of the government free. FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I too express my solidarity with the Minister for the threats he has suffered, as I express my solidarity with the President of the Lombardy Fontana Region and with the Undersecretary Sileri. We thought that after this lockdown you could fall back into ranks, you could have a different behavior, that you could all be quieter from this point of view; unfortunately these gestures show that it is not so. I would like to express my satisfaction with the measure adopted, starting from a measure that we have envisaged thanks to an amendment tabled by Italy Viva. I am also saying this in relation to Senator Salvini's speech that for me, indeed for this House, it is a sort of hologram, in the sense that it appears, it does interventions, even a little cyclostyled, prepared before the facts happen, and then it goes away. I would like to inform him that, thanks to the aforementioned amendment, we have provided for an extraordinary intervention and, that is, the possibility that it can also be applied for school building, for maintenance, safety and embellishment work, the model adopted for Genoa, with the possibility of deburring the actions of the mayors and presidents of the Provinces, who have economic availability and who can intervene. Thanks to this decree-law it is possible to do so and I believe that this amendment alone gives value to the whole measure. Alongside this, Mr President, I believe that we should also be satisfied with the recruitment plan for teachers. When, as a rule, 80,000 teachers are recruited and 32,000 are recruited with the extraordinary competition, this is already the case and the fact that the recruitment procedures guarantee meritorious selections. [[Applause]] for a role like that of a school teacher, which carries out a very delicate task for our children, I think it is an unpredicted success. I remember that when we approved the so-called good school and the famous 120,000 hirings, we said and committed that this would be the last stabilisation of precarious people in school and that from that moment on we would only enter school with public competition. I believe that maintaining this commitment is a valuable element of the measure. At the same time, I believe that it is wrong to hear that we can continue to maintain a methodology that provides access to teaching by seniority. This is therefore also an important element. Mr President, Minister, there is also a third question concerning reopenings. I'd like us to make a deal with our kids, our teachers, school executives and families. It is true that the school is the one that has suffered the most, it was the first to be closed when the lockdown and the epidemic began and, according to the forecasts, it will be the last to reopen. The deal we have to make is that since September we will not only reopen schools - I take this for granted - but that these schools will no longer close them, regardless. We must create the conditions for schools to be open with a wide differentiation of hours (morning, afternoon, evening) and spaces, considering not only school structures, but also imagining that we use other spaces that our cities make available. If we begin to imagine flexible teaching, with flexible spaces and timetables, we can afford not to close schools anymore, even in the face of a condition in which, without vaccine, we will not have certain that the epidemic does not return. However, we must make a plan now, from now on, we must think about it and we can make this commitment: schools do not close anymore. That's the commitment I'm asking the government. In the same way, the digital system used for teaching is a huge heritage that we must not disperse, it cannot become the tool of ordinary teaching, but it would be crazy if, having used this model and having experienced it, we did not use it further in the future also for other forms of learning and for that flexibility to which I referred earlier, of course filling that dispersion 3.0 that we have witnessed helpless in these weeks and that is 850,000 students without devices, 57 percent of the students who had to share the devices. From this point of view we have created a disparity in teaching and we have done so even more, President, with regard to disabled students, people with disabilities and their families. For the psychic disability, in fact, the didactics totally stopped. I have tabled another amendment which has created a great deal of internal pain with regard to the need to ensure that girls and boys with disabilities have, at the request of their parents and with unanimous decision by the teachers, the possibility of repeating the year. I know that this is an amendment that can create some element of hostility from certain points of view, because we closed classes and special schools, we thought and imagined inclusion precisely because we thought it was necessary to imagine educational paths that did not need any specialty. It happens, however, to be in front of the mother or dad who calls crying because the son has been deprived of teaching and the opportunity to learn. In fact, school learning is also indispensable for girls and children with disabilities, since they are given the basis for the construction of future inclusion in society. When a boy loses a year and his mom or dad asks him to recover it, in the face of the obligation of promotion I think we would have been too violent and discriminatory against these girls and these boys if we hadn't created this opportunity. The school has many limits, but in the face of disability very often even in normal conditions, so without the lockdown, I had often met parents who asked for rejections to be able to repeat the year, because however that is an environment considered muffled and protected compared to what the kids wait when they finish the cycle of studies. This means that the school has, in recent years, built the conditions for true inclusion paths; so when we abolished the classes of special schools and built these inclusion paths, we created conditions of overall growth for boys and girls, a real help for families. I believe that we must invest in this, improving and with increasingly trained support teachers. This lockdown has taught us that there is a need for supplementary intervention on the part of society, even in the face of needs considered special, but that very often they are not treated with the same dignity with which we consider other interventions. I therefore thank the Minister, the Government and the majority for this measure, with the invitation to make an extra effort and make a commitment to a certain reopening of schools. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u110	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to convey to the Minister the solidarity of the Brothers of Italy party. For us every form of violence sucks; every form of violence directed at women makes us doubly disgusting. [[Applause.]] So, from this point of view, no misunderstandings are allowed for anyone. Having said that, we will not vote for this measure, but we will vote decisively against the confidence of this Government because for a patriotic party like ours we absolutely cannot support a measure that would not be voted by anyone in the world of Italian school: students, families, teaching staff and non-teaching managers. You have done a masterpiece on the contrary: you have displeased everyone and have done a wrong to those who, in recent months, really carried on the institution of the Italian school. I would like to thank those - and only them, Minister - who in recent months have made every effort to ensure, even in the emergency, that the world of education could go on: young people (especially those who had fewer opportunities) who have followed the teaching at a distance; teachers who have invented themselves; families who have massacred themselves economically to support their children; the whole world of ATA staff and school leaders who have tried in vain to understand something for the immediate and for the future. I shall enter, albeit quickly, into the substance of the various issues. Mr Minister, allow me to say that, with this measure, these people are being given completely wrong answers. An opportunity could also be made of this emergency. It's really a zero time to do justice and start again. I am talking about the heart of the matter, that is, the question of competition and the stabilization of precarious people. Since the beginning of the legislature we have had a line of consistency: we think that our precariousness must be completely stabilized, because the merit is not established by a competition with crosses, as was foreseen in the initial draft, nor by the system you are now assuming. I would like to point out to you, Minister, that it is the same model chosen for the competition of school leaders, which has created a monstrous dispute. Attention, therefore: we have an army of professionals who in September would certainly have been ready to be in the chair, made of people who have served the State and in these years have assured the function of the school. Without the precarious, there would be no Italian school: they cannot be treated as disposable kleenex. The merit lies in the ability to do one's own work as an educator and is worth more a gram of practice and good example than billions of words and theory. We are therefore sided, without whether or not but, with our precariousness and we will continue to carry out this battle alongside them, because I repeat that we will never be of the idea that the State can be used as people who cannot perform a function and then claim that they must be destroyed: it is a principle for us that is imperative, which of course also applies to all other categories of the school world. Likewise, Minister, we expected a courageous political choice, also to heal the many disputes that exist. I am speaking expressly of the competition of school leaders and teachers of the 2016 Supplementaries, people who have also given up their work indefinitely, because they are winners of the competition, and then, as a result of a judgment, they are found not to be, neither teachers, nor at the place of work they previously had. How can a state remain deaf to this injustice? It is clear that this is a political decision, but, until we have the courage to deal with these issues politically, we will always give up docilely to the god of the State Accounting and to the judgments of the judiciary and our political role in this House will be completely lacking. It will not be necessary to have a government, a minister and a parliament, but only a cold and bureaucratic activity, which clearly cannot be Italian politics. We say this especially at this moment, when we have to give signals to the country, according to which there is someone in the control cabin and driving and the car is not mad and downhill to accommodate the events. How is it possible that, a few days after the state exams, our pupils and our families still do not know anything? They are concerned about their future and their destiny, because their children stand before everything. For many months, during this crisis, I heard President Conte talk about model Italy: which? We're the only country that, as far as school is concerned, hasn't picked an address and we're still here to discuss. I lay a pitiful veil on what has happened in these days: you have made a decree-law for reasons of urgency and look, Minister, that, if it had not been for the responsibility of the opposition, which is not towards you, but towards our nation, you would have done obstruction on your own. We come to this House with a vote of confidence in a completely reckless way, then this measure will go to the House, where, for the time available, it cannot even be examined by the competent Commission. Does this seem possible to you? I want to express - because I like to be honest intellectually - a human appreciation for the activity of the undersecretaries Malpezzi and De Cristofaro; but more than that I cannot say. We are deeply dissatisfied with the measure and believe that it is going in an absolutely wrong direction. We have offered all our cooperation contributions, with our amendments; only something has been accepted, which, moreover, is healthy of the enormous gaps within the decree-law, as in the case of the examinations of the private individuals. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that a great public education, Giovanni Gentile, said that "men who reason do not always make history"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u113	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, on behalf of all the Senators of Free and Equal and the Mixed Group, I too would like to express our solidarity with the threats and insults which once again, when there is a woman in public office, immediately have a sexist connotation. This is no longer tolerable. [[Applause]] I say this here, because we are forced to stigmatize these facts every time. We all thought that perhaps, with complaints and initiatives, this climate could change somehow and that there was a repentance; instead it continues ruthlessly. That is why we give all our solidarity to the Minister, as others have done in this House (and we are all happy about that). Now we come to the merit of trust and this decree-law. I would like to say very clearly what emerged from this great crisis of the epidemic, which caught us all by surprise (I have said it several times), with everything that has happened in these difficult weeks for the institutions and especially for our citizens. I believe that citizens have understood what the country's two major infrastructures are, the most important ones, on which we have rightly focused and still need to focus; the importance of public health and the issue of school in this country has been exposed. It is the two major infrastructures that make any country a civilized nation and a solid democracy. How many speeches have we made in this House, how focused have we been, what have we done? I will always say that we must not forget these days, what has happened to us, the emergency of health care and the fragility in that field. Let us not forget, after this decree-law on the school and after the debate on the closure of schools (we hope that there will soon be their reopening), how fundamental it is for a country to invest in the school, invest all our resources, our energies and our debate. We have rightly said that we must avoid that, after the examination of this decree-law, there is no longer a public debate on the school. This country needs to bring the question of school back to the centre of political discussion and therefore its future, not only out of respect for our Constitution and not just because the Constitution has given us this message. Unfortunately, things have turned out a little differently over the years; if we are forced on the school every time to try to buffer, to settle, to try to rationalize, it is because for a long time there have been wrong interventions. There was once again a cut in resources at the school. This is what has happened over the years. Every time it's like this. Every time we discuss school we have to deal with all the issues concerning recruitment and precariousness. But why? Has there ever been any certainty over the years that it lasted more than one or two years on how to access teaching? No, because every time we have been faced with a continuous change of standards and forms of recruitment. There is someone who wants to teach; it is not that only those who wanted to do anything else go to school, as I have heard. Perhaps there is a young man who has the right aspiration and, therefore, must know when he is enrolled in that faculty what is the path he must take, as happens in other countries. This is fundamental; this has passionate us. There was a discussion we had publicly; we did not do it in the secret rooms. There was a tough and difficult debate - we all know - on the issue of the extraordinary competition that posed a question of concern shared by everyone about how the school year was started again in an orderly way and that obviously put different options in the field on the same concerns, how they give themselves to the precarious and how at the same time they make sure that there is a quality. This was an issue that we were so passionate about and made us clash. There's nothing weird or dark about it. This is a debate that we have had publicly; we have then found a synthesis, which perhaps will not satisfy everyone. Each of us wanted something more or something less, but a point has been reached that is not a chord. It is a point of understanding made for the good of the school, to look ahead and then to try to give us the tools to deal with the other problems. This decree, which provides for urgent measures, has only one fundamental concern: to ensure the resumption of school activity and the reopening of schools in safety. But in this decree, thanks to the work of everyone (and I also thank the opposition, the majority, the Undersecretaries and the Minister), we tried to put something more than just urgent measures, but that began to outline a path, speaking precisely of centrality that is part of our government program to give a new possibility. We wanted to use the decree to give a new opportunity, a new beginning and change. We have a chance to do that, and we tried to do it. I have to say that - I do not want to reopen the debate - this decree could have been even better, but we were also deleted some rules that we had approved within the Commission which was qualifying and which helped to give answers. I am thinking of the teacher's card also of the precarious ones, which therefore helped also in this reasoning that we have made. Other important issues such as those of socially useful workers (LSU) were addressed. Of course, I think that Parliament is sovereign and, perhaps, we should open a serious debate because maybe someone, if he really wants to decide for us, can also run for election (I think of some powerful officials). But this will be part of another debate that we will do apart. So, there are some important things, on the point we have reached an understanding and we have to look forward now to make it work well, that the path is stabilized. We obtained in the decree-law I raise - and this is important - 16,000 more assumptions, which are also a result of that clash and of that discussion that allowed us to take this step forward too. We have adopted important amendments: I am thinking of the fact that the evaluation is no longer numerical, but with judgment, which is an important thing, because a child cannot be marked with a number. Some people think it's stupid, but it's very important. It was also good to address the issue of making all instruments available. We did the distance teaching, but let's remember that this has brought out - it was also well remembered by the Undersecretary De Cristofaro this morning - so many inequalities that already existed - it is not that we have discovered them - on which we must intervene. We said at the beginning of this tragedy that no one should be left behind and we must make this effort, all the more so in the school. There are children living in the outskirts to which only the school can give the instrument, not only of the social elevator but the possibility of being able to fully reaffirm his dignity as a citizen. This is the beautiful thing about our school, the school of the Constitution. But the school isn't just distance learning. Some people don't think that we have now discovered distance learning; they will help and we will use tools, but the school is to live together, to be together, to grow together, to have a relationship with the teachers and among the students. This is the school we want to raise citizens up to a democracy that is up to it. That's why we could do better, as I said. We could have had much more in this decree-law; perhaps we could have achieved more results, but this is already a step forward. That is why we will vote for confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u116	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I thank the Minister for being here. The decree-law that we are about to approve began in a very simple way: it was a decree that tried to guarantee the correct conclusion of the school year. It could have been approved by this House in a few days, because it was a very simple but very necessary measure. The choice of the Senate of the Republic was to seize this opportunity to open a public debate on the school, and I believe it was a wise choice. There have been a lot of voices in the Commission, and they have been given attention, and that is why we have arrived, with all the complexity and problems we are facing today: we have decided not to choose the easiest way. When we discuss schools and discuss schools, we always do something positive. My friend and teacher Luigi Berlinguer has reminded him these days: that the country debate school is a positive and important fact. Of course, we should all think about how we debate school, because the rate of violence, when it comes to school, is too high. And every time it is higher and more shameful when - and there are many opportunities - the Minister of Education of this country is a woman: the Falcucci, the Iervolino, the Gelmini, the Giannini, the Faithful and today the Minister Azzolina. Every time there is a woman in that Ministry (and there is often a woman in that Ministry), the rate of violence is unacceptable and sexist. [[Applause.]] Against this it is good that all the groups have spoken today, but it is necessary that we, in the words we choose to use in this House, on our social networks, in our declarations, do not become moral agents of that violence. [[Applause.]] Otherwise it is too easy to express solidarity after, when you have culturally generated that kind of violence before. This theme is closely linked to today's provision, because if we commit ourselves, because we all want it together and also from different points of view, a higher quality school is because we think that only with education, education and the quality of culture diffused we will change the rate of violence of this country. If our children and our girls, if our boys and our girls attend different and better schools than today, then there will be better citizens tomorrow. This is the reason for the commitment, the reason for the struggle and also for the confrontation; because, of course, there can also be confrontation, which is not useless. The mediation that we have achieved is not an agreement between political parties: the mediation that we have achieved means that today in the relaunch decree - which is not what we are discussing here today, but that there would have been no debate on this measure in that way - there are 16,000 more places, that there would not have been. There are resources to start in September the new school year with the safety and distance of the children; there are resources to have people, for sanitization and so on. Of course we should organize all this and it is a struggle for everyone: for the Ministry, but also for the Municipalities and for the Regions, and those who come to this House to teach how to do - and perhaps it governs some of the Regions in which it has not yet been understood how to proceed - before coming to teach should try to solve some problems in the role in which it is called to do so. [[Applause]] , because the country goes on if everyone does their part. We are about to vote for this decree-law and we are doing it with great conviction, because we believe that the decree-law has the conditions to close the year and to start the new one, as well as significant and important steps forward. I am referring, for example, to the issue of recruitment and extraordinary competition, on which attention has been focused: it is an important part, but it is not the heart or the centre of the measure. In my opinion, the level of attention which this subject has drawn to itself objectively is excessive in relation to the size of the measure, and yet progress has been made. As far as my parliamentary group is concerned, we had asked for more people in that extraordinary competition; we had legitimately felt, in respect of different opinions, that there were no conditions for the competition during the summer and that the method we agreed together, at a time when we thought we would proceed quickly, was no longer necessary at this point. We found a shared point of view. The three issues are dealt with and we think that this is a good result. When you get to a base camp on the climb of Everest, you plant the tent and you say, It is good that we have reached this point and we also have the courage and joy to claim the result we have achieved and I believe that we must do this today. [[Applause]] Then the road is still long, but precisely it is the climb of Everest, so you must also take it with a certain step, because otherwise you risk getting short breath to the destination. There are many other things in the provision. One of all, small but large, is that of the transition to judgment as a system of evaluation. You see, inside the passage from numbers to judgment there is a model of instruction. Someone has legitimately invoked Gentile's model: we have others. For example, among our cultural references there is a person who would turn the years yesterday, Don Milani. This is our cultural reference: a different school for every child and for every child to produce equality, and to make a different school for every child for every child to produce equality we must make a school with capable teachers and there are many. I'm gonna lock it up. Many people have written on the subject of judgment and I am very happy about it. I would like to quote the letter that was written to some of us, who signed the amendment, by an eight-year-old, who told us: "Thank you, because then I'll understand a little more about the evaluation they give me, because to me those numbers do not allow me to understand it." I think these things are worth a parliamentary mandate. Every day I hear of the teachers, who listen because I have been dealing with these issues for a long time; they told me how they went through the months of the pandemic with suffering, the closing and closing of the school. They're different teachers. At this moment I have three in mind: one of them will retire next year; one of them has been stabilized as a support teacher for a few years; one of them is still precarious in school. All three are women who work in the school; all three, from the first day of closing, have gone crazy to try to give their children all that warmth, all that closeness, all that educational relationship that they used to give in presence and that they struggled to give from a distance. I believe that we have done something incredibly great thanks to these teachers, because, from one day to the next, we found ourselves having to come up with a solution. And this solution, with all the problems that he had and that we all know (it's easy to come and explain what the problems are), but it worked. Know that, when these teachers were able to go and look for, one by one, those children who did not connect, to understand the reason, and had the resources to go to solve this problem, this passage was possible because in the first decree resources were allocated to this purpose. This passage has built and rebuilt relationships. When we think about school, we think about them. We're in a continuous relationship, we're not in the air. This Parliament has been working for weeks, while in the newspapers they wrote that we were closed and that it was time to reopen Parliament (sometimes someone who is in Parliament writes it too, and that strikes me). This Parliament, on the other hand, has worked. He worked to improve this decree, he worked to create the conditions for the new year and we will continue to work because we believe in the Italian school and we believe in the need for a quality school for boys and girls, for children, for students and also for their families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u119	PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, there has been no rethinking. We were deluded that the left had resumed to do the job for which it was born: to defend the weak, like the hundreds of thousands of precarious, who gave their best years to the school and now risk to find themselves on the margins of society for a distorted and simplistic interpretation of the "merit." This is so much like a spite to those who dared to annoy the "power," asking attention for the despair of those who fear losing what, in many cases, is the only source of livelihood, in an age that no longer offers great alternatives, perhaps with the responsibility of a family. The extraordinary competition (which in the latest version now has the characteristics of an ordinary) confirms that the Government has no intention of taking into account the epidemiological emergency, which would advise to focus on strengthening and stabilising the teaching staff. If today you will find the confirmation of the backward march of the Democratic Party and of Free and Equal, again flattened on the positions of the Movimento 5 Stars, next school year will start with zero hirings indefinitely; indeed, 30,000 more precarious following the retirements, which will bring the total of alternates to 200,000. The contrary of the commitment, made at our request - in words - by representatives of almost all political forces, to guarantee teachers in the chair next September in order to deal with the pandemic crisis with due effectiveness, starting from the need to double the classes in order to allow the distances. It angers to think that the solution to overcome the precariousness there would be and lies in our proposal of taking from graduations, already used for the AGE (the graduations when exhausted). The competition for titles only, in fact, born in 1989 and known as "double channel," in 1999 was converted by Law No. 124 into a permanent ranking (now exhausted). Transformation reiterated by the jurisprudence of the Cassation (example: judgment of 3 October 2006, No 21298). Graduations can be permanent (still active for recruitment of ATA staff, and also an active time for recruitment of teachers), or exhausted (now alternative to ordinary competition, specifically provided for by law and also reaffirmed by the Constitutional Court's ruling). The instrument ranking, therefore, is fully legitimate and has equal dignity with respect to the ordinary competition and is also "guarded," since the Supreme Court has stated that to it must be assigned 50 percent of the places annually available, percentage also increaseable in case of exhaustion of parallel competitive rankings. Special situations such as the current ones legitimize the establishment of an additional instrument subordinate to the existing ones, the only one to be able to guarantee the assignment of teachers in good time to the classes with the creation of a maxigraduatoria aimed at the placing in role, which uses only and exclusively the scores with which the aspirants are included in the respective lists. Among other things, the number of places in the extraordinary competition called Azzolina is so small that the whole procedure recalls the usual mountain that gives birth to the mouse. It would take no less than 100,000 hirings. With the Government's proposal, the result will not cover more than 10 to 20% of what is needed, as well as arriving - if that's okay - the following year. Today it is the primary public interest to cover all vacant and available posts. Obviously minus those of pre-existing ordinary procedures (various merit degrees and AGE), the quota assigned with extraordinary procedure for the exceptional needs of the moment must be recovered in the following years in order to guarantee equal access to those who will participate in the future ordinary competition, that in the current state of emergency it seems indispensable to procrastinate for at least one year. The one against the school's precarious by certain politics has become almost a pigeon shot. It's not like that abroad. In France, recruitment competitions, both in state and private schools, take place with absolute regularity and virtually no sacks of precariousness are ever formed, since teachers are employed on a stable footing, both in the public and in the private sector, as the need arises. Even in Spain there are no particular pockets of precarious, because the hirings are regular and the incoming training is more agile than the Italian farraginosa. In March, when the pandemic began to manifest itself in all its virulence and, as League, I launched the appeal to face together the great criticalities that we will find in September, I expected real collaboration. The fronts on which to work are basically two: emergency teaching (with the need to double the spaces and double the classes to reduce the pupils to be managed) and teaching staff, insufficient already before the emergency and therefore precarious as a risky percentage for the maintenance of the system. I have proposed a major stabilisation plan, which will allow, for the first time in several years, to have all the teachers in the chair already at the beginning of the school year. Representatives of different political forces (excluding the 5 Star Movement) have repeatedly intervened, recognizing the importance, at such a serious time, of having an adequate and stable teaching staff. Is it a children's right to have teachers who have time to get to know them and understand them, otherwise what quality do we skip? Of course, not even in this second decree-law on the school sector there is a trace of the long-awaited interventions by tens of thousands of precarious and "hidden" of the school. There is no specific path to the achievement of the teaching qualification dedicated to teachers with adequate professional experience. There is no trace of the specialization course for the teaching of support in schools of every order and grade, dedicated specifically to those who are in service, in any capacity and legitimately, on places of support of primary, secondary and infancy without being in possession of the qualification of specialization. There is no trace, apart from the usual table, of the programming of the ordinary academic path in order to achieve the qualification, indispensable instrument for the teaching provided by Community legislation as well as by the national one. There is no trace of a real competition reserved for teachers of religion, waiting to take part even for more than twenty years. There is no trace of initiatives to overcome the litigation of competitions as a school manager. There is no trace of our proposals to limit the damage caused by the delays in the transitional grant for secondary school. [[Applause]] The emergency of schools without directors of general and administrative services (DSGAs) is not adequately addressed and the commitments made on so-called "functioning DSGAs" are not met. There is no provision that solves the problem of primary school teachers graduate from the secondary school before 2001-2002, dismissed following final judgments but not included in the number of participants in the extraordinary competition held in 2018, pursuant to the provisions contained in the decree of dignity. Again. The renewed understanding between the government forces has left no way to the proposals that concerned funds, contributions, corporate credits, exemptions, deductibles and refunds, in addition to 10 per thousand asked by the League, to save the schools equals, at risk of closure. In fact PD and Italia Viva have bowed to the will of the 5 Stars, who have always shown no particular sympathy for the non-state public school, with the excuse that the school decree does not have adequate funds, so it would be all postponed eventually to the decree I throw again. Meanwhile, with the crumbs allocated so far, many non-state schools risk not reopening next school year and this could result in an enormous financial burden for the state school compared to today. For all these reasons, the vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group on a measure under the banner of irresponsible overpochism, whose ineffectiveness unfortunately will be realized only in September, can only be opposed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u122	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally called, after a long series of postponements and delays - as far as I am concerned, unacceptable and shameful - to convert Decree-Law No 22 of 2020 into law, which it brings (I quote, but it is worth remembering): Emergency measures on the regular conclusion and orderly start of the school year and on the conduct of state examinations Since, as far as I am concerned, words are important, I would first of all focus on the words:'regular conclusion'. There is absolutely nothing in the provision to regulate [[Applause]] : As is now evident to all, the school year has actually ended with the closure of March 5, the children have lost skills (we know) and have known closely the distance teaching, which however represented one of the biggest failures of this government in this crisis [[Applause]] You, Minister, for months have overshadowed the success of e-learning, relaunched data and statistics worthy of the worst fake news; you have even come to say that 93% of young people would have access to distance learning, except then be denied by ISTAT, because one third of Italian families do not have a PC, tablet or appropriate IT tools. [[Applause.]] It would have been enough to put your nose outside the building and enter what I call the real world, that of the mothers who from real acrobats have tried to manage this emergency improvising teachers, tutors, psychologists, computer techniques, as well as being at the same time mothers, wives, compañeras, daughters, cooks, colfs and babysitters. [[Applause.]] If it hadn't been for all those teachers who haven't resigned to the idea of abdicating to their role or for their mom and dad's phones or for the chats of parents and teachers, a lot of kids wouldn't even have had the chance to study. Dear Minister, it would be enough to travel around the country to realize that not only broadband does not exist everywhere, but in some parts of our country there is no Network or even the simple telephone line! [[Applause.]] You insist on saying that everything is fine; explain it to the family of Giulio, the twelve-year-old who has become the icon of teaching at a distance [[Applause),]] who, in order to hear the master's voice, in order to see his companions, in order not to feel different from his companions, made kilometers to go in search of an Internet connection that he then found in an outdoor field. [[Applause.]] Or tell the many associations that have had to make up for your absence, donating tablets to the less fortunate students who could not afford one; and do not come and tell us about the 80 million allocated to the devices with the decree-law care Italy, because to date no one has seen a tablet, except in those Regions where the governors have done alone, such as Calabria, Molise, Piedmont and even Lombardy. The only bitter truth, unfortunately, is that your inability has fueled inequalities: you have made them form A and B students, you have cut off the rights of students and you have forgotten them! [[Applause.]] You have killed the idea of an open school all; you have abandoned a generation of teachers, who despite you and your mistakes, are trying to train our children. As if that were not enough, nothing is expected to strengthen distance learning if there was a wave of return in October; yet the wave of return you need when it comes to bringing the Italians to vote in the summer. [[Applause.]] With a loud voice you asked for cooperation (we in the opposition have always asked), but on the school, as on the rest unfortunately, you did not accept any of our proposals. You have not shown yourselves open to any kind of suggestion not of partisan, not ideological, not of party, but only in the exclusive interest of children and children, who are the category that today has paid the most price of this crisis. They had to give up not only school, but also their sociality and not all children went well. I think - for example - of those who have developed psychological pathologies related to forced isolation, but also to the many, many fragile children who saw in the school the only way out and who, instead, perhaps for twenty-four hours had to witness domestic violence, when not on the street, easy prey to crime. You have forgotten so much about the kids, that not only did you not think of them throughout the lockdown, but you managed to do even worse in the fantastic phase 2, i.e. when the parents had to go back to work and the schools were still closed. You have planned a laughable number of parental leave, arrived the day before yesterday and not at all; baby-sitter bonuses so difficult to request that almost no one has received and - I don't know if you have noticed - tonight the INPS website went back in bulk and will talk about it on June 1st. [[Applause.]] The only result you have achieved was to amplify the already serious problem of reconciling work-family and, because of you, in 2020 we witness the paradox in the paradox: if first many women had to choose between caring for their children and the family or the search for employment, after years of conquests and after many sacrifices, today they have even found themselves having to quit because they do not know where to put their children. [[Applause]] You have forgotten that a woman who does not work is not only a poorer family or a poorer child, but in reality, if a woman does not work, an entire country is impoverished. However, we come to the second part of the measure, the relative one - always thinking about the words because they are important - the supposed ordained start of the school year. We would have imagined that we would first of all find clear dispositions, clear guidelines and useful to ensure the health safety of students; therefore a whole series of measures useful to physically distance the children, to implement the number of classrooms, so as to finally put an end to the age-old problem of the chicken classes that you, Minister, have so much talked about on television. And, instead, nothing at all. Once again there is the usual download on the Technical and Scientific Committee, and all this while in France, or in neighbouring Switzerland, they are already on the school benches. [[Applause.]] We're in June, and school construction work had to start a long time ago. School construction - since Pharaoh has spoken about it - is also the usual bluff. It is true that you have deburred - you have finally learned from us how things are done. [[Applause.]] Bravo! - giving power to the local authorities, to the mayor, to the President of the Province, to do, and therefore to decide and to provide. Too bad that giving power with an amendment, but don't give the money, it really doesn't do much. [[Applause]] Because jobs can't be done. You will say that there will be so much the so-called decree-law raise; yes, what was called April, then became May; soon it is June, the money is not there and the mayors money in the cash register do not have any. [[Applause.]] No more excuses: the lessons in the classroom must resume in September, without whether or not but, beyond the bizarre ideas of the Minister, who would like to divide the lessons half in presence and half at a distance. Now you are even implementing the extermination of kindergartens and peer schools that, by pure ideology, will close because of you. [[Applause.]] Where do you think 900 boys will go if not in state schools and so you will bring to collapse the entire Italian education system? The end-of-year exams were then seen in all colors; in just three weeks the kids will have to take the exams and still have no clear where, how and how they will be evaluated. Scandal of scandals: precarious teachers will not be stabilised and, consequently, will not be guaranteed even the continuity of didactic and didactic-educational. [[Applause.]] A record, however, you, Minister, I am sorry, do have it: in one shot you were able to disappoint 8 million pupils, teachers of the role, precarious, alternates, ATA staff, parents and also the unions. [[Applause.]] I mean, congratulations, because no Minister of Education had succeeded so far. So by recapturing your report card - Minister, not only the mature, but also you - we come to the judgments. Distance teaching: insufficient. Maturation tests: severely insufficient. Returning to school: not qualifying, because we still don't know. Equal schools and kindergartens: zero. Competition for precarious teachers: insufficient. And we come, as in every report card that is respected, to the vote in conduct or, in its case, in institutional grammar. In recent years you have used us a little bit to everything, but never in this Parliament had we known the humiliation of learning such important decisions as those concerning school with twelve hours' notice or communicated and denied on television rather than here. Unfortunately, too, our judgment is severely inadequate. [[Applause.]] I am sorry that you are smiling, Mr Ascani, because we have finished publishing the decrees on Facebook.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u123	I invite you to conclude, Senator, and to address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u124	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). I'll come to the conclusion. We've waited 12 hours. We can wait a minute. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u125	We are also waiting, as is the case with your colleagues and, therefore, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u126	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). We have even seen the decree published on Facebook before the vote: a serious disrespect for the whole of this House and for all the institutions. In conclusion, I declare the convinced contrary vote of Forza Italia to this decree, on which you once again put your trust, thus assuming all the responsibility for your choices. Ours is a no on the merits of the provision; a no for the method used by a majority that has confirmed that it is deaf to good proposals; a political no to a decree that unfortunately speaks of school only in the title. We at Forza Italia fight the wrong ideas, Minister, never people and, therefore, on behalf of the whole Forza Italia Group we too express our solidarity with the threats received. [[Applause.]] However, we are sorry, but unfortunately, as Minister, given your report card, you are rejected by us, students and teachers. And this is his report card. [[Shows a sign from the shape of a report card with the words "Lucia Azzolina, school report card, failed." Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u127	No! Senator, you know, put down the sign.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u130	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, I do not comment on all the inaccuracies that have been said in this context by the opposition representatives. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u131	Senator, wait a minute. President Gasparri, you! GRANATO (M5S). These dramatic gestures are only done when you know that you are in the centre of the spotlight. Yesterday, during the general discussion, all the benches were empty.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u132	[[Applause. Protests.]] This suffered decree-law, born to regulate the closing of the school year, the examinations of the end of the first and second cycle of education and the reopening of the educational activities in September had at least a value. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u133	Colleagues, let us be clear: very vehement interventions have been made, rightly, and they have been allowed to be completed. So as long as we do not go beyond language and mode, this Presidency will continue the speeches, whoever is speaking. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u134	Thank you, President. I was saying that this suffered decree-law, born to regulate the closing of the school year, the examinations of the first and second cycles of education and the reopening of the educational activities in September, had at least the merit of having brought the Italian school back to the center of public debate. For years, the quality of our school has been undermined by various reforms that have undermined it in its constitutional role. It took a decree for the Covid, born for anything else, to put some order where the school legislation of the last twenty years had created chaos. The vision of the school of Movimento 5 Stars is the same as the constituent Fathers: secular, state, social elevator for the last, free, free, democratic, inclusive and meritorious. [[Applause.]] Thanks to us today, the temporary recruitment of the teaching staff, left to the discretion of the school leaders, becomes transparent again, with the opening of the second and third updated rankings, drawn up by the peripheral offices of the Ministry of Education. In autumn, the extraordinary competition procedure that involves the recruitment of 32,000 teachers on a meritorious basis. For these results we must say thanks to Minister Azzolina and express the support of the entire Parliamentary Group of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]] Our Minister had the courage to address, unlike his predecessors, the thorny theme of the competitions. For years there have been no competitions worthy of this name for teachers. The imagination of the legislators has gone wild in search of the ope-laws procedure that legitimized in the most painless way possible a harmful automatism between service seniority and school recruitment that was within the reach of the smallest commitment of anyone who had a valid access certificate for teaching. We must say thank you to those who have done these unholy interventions if the state school and the teaching profession have over time lost more and more credit in the collective imagination, with consequences before everyone's eyes. The attacks on teachers by parents and students, now on the agenda in any context and under any pretext, and their economic position among the lowest in Europe are a clear indicator of this. Putting in place directly enabling public competitions for teaching staff every two years, without additional costs for competitors, is today a goal within the reach of any Government; having the courage and the will to pursue it to the end are another story. It takes courage, determination and loyalty to one's institutional role, because we talk mostly to a crowd of recipients to whom those unholy precedents have led to different expectations. However, the public state school was born with the aim of meeting the needs of the nation's cultural and democratic growth and, therefore, cannot ignore its function as a social elevator based on the quality of the educational and training offer. Once it was also possible to justify the cyclical presence of sanatories, since ordinary competition procedures, as not computerized, lasted even three years and were called on average every ten years. Today, with the simplifications due to technology, within a maximum of one year you can complete a procedure with pre-elective tests, written tests and oral tests. It is necessary to break a spear in favour of the work of Minister Azzollina. While Bussetti and Fioramonti at the first skirmishes have renounced the idea of competitions in order not to stumble into the crossfire of trade unions and trade associations, Minister Azzolina was the only one to go all the way, taking on the shoulders tons of mud that were poured on him, so much so that he was put under escort, taking advantage of the economic situation - more unique than rare - of the emergency Covid, the ideal pretext to hook up the most disparate requests. [[Applause.]] Taking advantage, in fact, of the inevitable discontent caused by the extraordinary measures made necessary and unavoidable for the containment of the virus, which led to the end of the school in presence from March 4, 2020, the Minister was blamed for everything and the opposite of everything, in an attempt to isolate it and make it capitulate on the indecent proposal of recruitment only for titles and service, with final oral test possibly not selective. [[Applause.]] We saw our minister attacked for closing the schools and having arranged for the reopening for the state exams in presence; for the inefficiencies related to distance teaching, so we have the advocates of reopening and those of closing without further burdens; for how the end-of-cycle exams have been modified, for some too soft and for others to be eliminated altogether; for the evaluation at the end of the year (but if you said no and rejected no when you said yes in extreme and circumscribed cases). Too much of everything has been disputed to him without coherence and a minimum of regard to the situation in progress and, above all, without proposal; only protests fired strategically to put into crisis the Minister and the governmental component of the Movimento 5 Stars, solely responsible for operating out of all lobbying, unlike all the others. [[Applause.]] No way! We're not in. We have seen squalid curtains, worthy of the most vicious and deteriorating politics of the past, so the display of the defense of the precarious is presented as a noble cause, worthy of beautiful souls. We are not so reckless that we do not understand what hides, rather, the defense of precariousness as a privileged way of accessing the profession of teacher. To the hard-working defenders of the downward recruitment, I would like to say that they are not original. Food pockets of precarious has always been the system put in place by politics and intermediate bodies to clientise, enslave and use entire categories of workers to their sole advantage. [[Applause.]] The merit would have the advantage of making them free and giving autonomous weight to their claims, and therefore it does not agree. The real intent of those who want to erase it from any selection criteria is evident: to maintain a political space, power and privileges. Yesterday, after a tiring iter, which lasted for forty days in the Commission, in which amendments were reworded indefinitely, in a semi-desert Chamber - this in order to make clear the real consideration in which politicians hold the Italian school - we saw the speeches of colleagues and colleagues who, with some amendments, requested sanatories for the precarious and, with others, asked for funds for the equal schools. What a coincidence and what an originality: it is proposed to thoroughly send the public service and to show the advantages of the private one, more efficient and cheaper. Not even this is new: it seems to be witnessing the same script of the dismantling of public health and the various privatizations, which in the last thirty years have deprived us of rights and sovereignty in our country. [[Applause.]] Public state school doesn't touch! The peroratio for peers from right to left is almost unanimous: for them too with the emergency Covid presents a gracious opportunity to make cash. But be careful: if there is a euro for them, it must be given on the basis of criteria of real subsidiarity with respect to the state service, which can legitimately happen only for the childhood segment. For others, which are fully covered by the state education system, the provisions of Article 33 of the Constitution must be strictly enforced: "Enti and private individuals have the right to set up schools and educational institutions, free of charge for the State" and therefore any possibility of grants due solely to the emergency must derive from the funds made available by the MEF for productive activities, and not for education. [[Protests.]] State school is a constitutional body, while equality is a parallel, non-subsidiary service: not even one euro should be taken from state schools, to say the least. Aware and proud of having drawn up a parliamentary act from which the public state school will emerge strengthened, I declare the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to the measure under consideration. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u135	Before we go any further, because - as you have already been told - the Conference of Leaders has decided that we shall vote from the place, as well as for the known reasons of health security, also for reasons of speed of the vote itself, since many must be able to return by the means that are there, I ask all colleagues to take their seats and possibly to cooperate in its orderly course. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u136	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,800, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 22 of 8 April 2020 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Verducci is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Verducci. Montevecchi, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - at 5.07 p.m.) The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Country, Casini, Castaldi, Castiello, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crocioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Floridia Gallicchio, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Evangelista Faraone, Fede, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrari, Floridia, Floridia Gallicchio, Garavini, Donno, Drago Loveri, Lovanti, Eranti, Ernani, Girani, Girano Senators say no: Aimi, Alessandrini, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Bergesio, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Bonino, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli Calandrini, Caligiuri, Campari, Candura, Cantù, Casolati, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Bonis, De Poli, De Vecchis Fantetti, Ferro, Fregolent, Fusco Gallone, Garnero Santanchè, Gasparri, Giammanco, Giro, Grassi Iannone La Pietra, La Russa, Lonardo, Lucidi Malan, Martelli, Masini, Minoffetto, Modena, Moles, Montani Nencini, Nisini Ostellari Pagano, Papatheu, Paragone, Pazzaglini, Pepe, Pergreffi, Petrenga, Pillini, Pillon, Stellini, Pildini, Pietroi, Moles, Vettini, Montani, Montani Nencini, Pittini, Pittoni, Pittini, Pittini, Pittini, Pittoni, Pittoni, Pittini, Pittini, Pittini, Pittini, Pittini, Pittini, Pizoni, Pizoni, Pittini, Pizoni, Pizoni, Pizoni, Pizini, Pizini, Pizini, Pizini, Pizardini PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,800, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 22 of 8 April 2020 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 235 Senators voting 235 Majority 118 Favorable 148 Contrars 87]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 22 are therefore excluded. Colleagues, allow me to make a brief assessment of the request to vote in advance by 38 senators: a little too many. But above all, to find in this House, almost at 6 p.m., people who asked to vote in advance seems to me to be unfair to all other Members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u139	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my more than an intervention at the end of the session is a real appeal to the Count Government not to accept the slanderous idea of the president of the Lazio Region Zingaretti and the mayor of Rome Raggi to continue with the landfill of Malagrotta and, in particular, with the site of Monte Carnival. In fact, it would seem that the mayor and the president of the Lazio Region have asked the government to amend the regulations on the establishment of landfills in order to have the artificial barriers authorized. In my opinion, Monte Carnival is not a suitable site because there is no natural barrier that defends the aquifer system. Authorizing the artificial barrier can open a worrying procedure for all territories, because - at this point - all territories could become a useful and suitable area for landfilling and we cannot allow this. We must remain in the regulation which still identifies these areas, namely the natural barrier. The appeal is therefore addressed to the Government Count, who is not complicit in Zingaretti and the Rays in the natural disaster of an already depressed area, which over the years has seen the famous landfill of Malagrotta destroy an entire territory of the Galeria Valley, bordering the Municipality of Fiumicino. I wanted to talk about the aquifer, which, I repeat, is very important in terms of both natural and public health. My appeal is therefore no to the Malagrotta dump and I thank you for your patience, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u142	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I believe it is necessary to put before Parliament the drama of the crisis which is affecting the image and credibility of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and almost the entire judiciary. The revelations on the Palamara case unfortunately refer not to the conduct of a single magistrate, but, because of the merchants inside the body of self-government, to the judiciary as a whole, victim and protagonist, at the same time, of unacceptable practices. In this regard, we need a reflection by Parliament on the goods and services of management and on the corollary of unconfessible dossiers and exchanges in order to assign to this or that magistrate the posts, with internal struggles that have now become authentic wars between gangs. In recent days, heavy shadows, if not unacceptable traffic, have also been documented on the designation of the current vice president of the CSM, former deputy David Ermini, revealed himself too close, if not internal, to the logics of the Palamara group. The government has announced a reform of the electoral system of the MSM: in my opinion, Parliament must also do its part, starting to invite Mr Ermini to consider leaving his post. It also reflects this Parliament on the pressing need to block the practice of revolving doors and the transfer from the two Chambers to the CSM of elected MPs and senators from among the so-called lay members. Mr President, a few days ago we commemorated Giovanni Falcone, who was also the victim - before the Corleone's tritolo arrived - of a current war between his own colleagues, who in Palazzo dei Marescialli, on the night of January 19, 1988, preferred Antonino Meli as head of the Palermo anti-mafia pool. In a few weeks we will remember the massacre of Via D'Amelio and the death of Paolo Borsellino, who in his last speech denounced precisely the work of the CSM, which denied Falcone the possibility to collect the witness of Antonino Caponnetto. Well, if we really want to honor their memory, it's time to say enough. The discredit that invests the judicial body, certainly equal to that that with Tangentopoli invested the entire Italian political class, certifies that the issue is no longer liquidable in a self-absolute way, speaking of some rotten apples. We are faced with a system crisis, a crisis so dramatic, if a lawyer paid like the lawyer Franco Coppi comes to say "I would be afraid to be judged by this Italian justice." Anticipating the election of the MSC under new rules could help to put an end to this indecent spectacle and to this insult to democracy, which mortifies the right of citizens to have a competent and impartial natural judge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u145	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, since the first months of Franceschini bis, there has been controversy over the attitude of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage to the easy loan of our artistic masterpieces, in Italy and abroad. Especially paintings and drawings, but also other categories of art objects, have been handled by decision of the political summit, unfortunately supported by an imbecile ministerial leadership, but in spite of the dictation of the code of cultural goods and landscape in terms of identity works of the state museums and above all the precautionary principle. Polemici, I said, that the complacent media, transversal to any change of Executive, buried under the praises of the owner of the Dicastery and the many miracles of culture 4.0. The loans of the Vitruvian Man of Leonardo, the Leo X of Raphael and many masterpieces of the Boscoreale Museum have thus marked unpublished and unrepeatable apices - no, there is already a new scandal, that of the Torlonia Collection - and to each of these peaks corresponds one of mine exposed to the competent prosecutors. That easy loans are a very sensitive matter is also confirmed by the note that the MIBACT Directorate-General sent me a week ago. In response to the request for civic access to the lists of the identity works of the state museums drawn up following the note of May 2018, which deals with "List of identity works for the purpose of establishing the database of intentions to loan cultural objects abroad," I have received, Mr President, an invitation to use the specific tools that the ordering makes available for the conduct of control activities by the Chambers. Same answer, just today, from the Directorate-General for Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape on the Argenteries of Morgantina. In other words, any citizen can request the display of public acts - and the administration is obliged to provide them - except for Members of Parliament. In fact, having the possibility of exercising the right of control over the administration itself by means of questions or questions, Foia would be foreclosed to them. However, you teach me, Mr President, that the inspection union assumes that I am already in a position and therefore asks those responsible for it: access to acts and inspection union, therefore, I am not comparable. The political representation of the electoral college and a mandate that is national would suggest that the parliamentarians are the bearer of collective interests and are obliged to pursue them, therefore in the right to ask for public documents like anyone else, right which MIBACT denies. To the damage is added the mockery, because the ministerial note continues saying: It reiterates the full willingness of the administration to respond punctually to the acts of inspection union which it intends to present in the framework of its institutional functions. Well, as part of my institutional functions, from November 2019 to today I have presented 27 acts of inspection union to the very available administration of cultural assets. And that is not too much, because the Ministry of Culture is on the brink and the required transparency has replaced an absolute opacity, so much so that no response has been given to me so far, either in this House or in the Commission. A genius of evil, indeed two, must have designed this perverse mechanism so that, in their distorted interpretation of the norm, I could not obtain acts with the Foia, because I am a Member of Parliament, but I cannot in fact expect answers to questions, because the Minister has a duty to answer, but no sanction is provided if he does not. And no sanction is provided for by the legislator for the simple reason that no one could foresee that a Minister of the Republic, who, like all the members of the Executive, would fall so low as to resort to a childish game of prestige in order to escape his institutional duties and divert the necessary control from Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u148	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, on the night of 20 May last, a very violent hailstorm devastated the countryside of the southern hinterland of the Marches, from Piceno to Anconetano, with particular violence between Fermano and Maceratese, in particular the circle of municipalities around the city of Montelparo. As our farmers know and as you know who grew up in the countryside with the culture of the territory and the countryside, hailstorms are the most fearsome that can happen. They do not strike the whole territory homogeneously, but those who are hit have enormous difficulties in recovering. In this case, of such extreme hardness, this blow hits a territory that not only in recent months has had to deal with the economic repercussions due to the emergency health, but that already too many years has to deal with the repercussions due to the emergency of the earthquake of 2016. We are talking about enormous damage to fruit, vegetables, cereals (especially wheat and barley) and vine crops. There are dozens of companies that have been affected and the damage, which is still being reconnaissance, definitely amounts to over 25 million euros. We are talking about small farms, most of which have not been insured because we know that they are very expensive. Many micro-entrepreneurs are not able to pay more than 20,000 euros per year, also because very often the compensation is very low. The Marche Region has already forwarded, with the report of the damages, the activation procedure for the refreshment. We have a conversation with the Government and there is - I must say - a great deal of attention from the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. There is a risk that these damages will not allow harvests for next year. In the case, for example, vineyards do not even allow the harvest for the next three years. Mr President, I wanted to draw attention to this issue in this House because I think we all have to fight to strengthen the Solidarity Fund for Natural Disasters. The agro-food supply chain - which has been called the life chain that has allowed a very important economic conversion and is a fundamental flywheel for the territories that live on tourism - must live. That is why I make this appeal, which is fundamental, as it is essential for our Parliament and our Government to collect it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u149	As a farmer, for my part, I fully support this appeal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u150	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-223.ana.u151	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 3 June, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed at 6.07 p.m.
