ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.39 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 18 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u4	On 25 August 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform your Ladyship that by decree of the President of the Republic today, adopted on my proposal, subject to approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegation of functions conferred by the Minister of Education, has been assigned the title of Deputy Minister to the State Secretary at the same Dicastery on. Anna Ascani. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte. We congratulate the Deputy Minister and wish him well. On 25 August 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following further letter: 'Mr President, I inform your Lordship that by decrees of today's President of the Republic, adopted on my proposal, subject to the approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegation of functions conferred by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the title of Deputy Minister to the Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicastery, Dr Emanuela Claudia DEL RE and Mrs Marina SERENI has been assigned. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte. We also wish these Vice-Ministers every success in their work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u5	He asked the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Parrini, to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a on draft law No 1883. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a began the examination of the measure at the beginning of last week, going on until last Friday's night. They have therefore resumed work on Monday and are still doing intense, very demanding and inevitably complex work. Between adopted, rejected and withdrawn, we have already examined more than 1,200 amendments and there are still others to be examined. We are therefore obliged to inform the rapporteur that we cannot vote on the mandate and have the measure arrived in this House this afternoon, as provided for in the timetable. I would therefore ask you to postpone the examination of the measure to the sitting tomorrow morning, because we intend to finish the work of the Commission between today's evening and night.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr Parrini. In relation to what has just been said, the discussion of draft law No 1883 is therefore postponed until tomorrow's sitting, which has already been convened at 9.30 a.m. I remember that the Conference of the Leaders is convened today, at 6.30 p.m., in Sala Pannini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u10	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak quickly to remind the House of what happened a few weeks ago in the municipality which sees me as a city councilman. I am referring to the railway disaster that we have also seen in the national media. I'm here today to represent a situation. Fortunately - and thank goodness - there were no deaths and only minor injuries were reported. However, I must complain, in my own community, about a situation of neglect and disrespect for investment in infrastructure. The railway station in the last ten years has been doubled, stealing space from the adjacent territories, so it is currently very close to the homes. Only thanks to a lucky series of events, there were no deaths in the story in question. I regret the lack of listening to the local authorities, which I am certainly not close to my own, by all the institutions, and unfortunately I note this again in this House today. I invite all the institutions, starting with the Government, to remember that, if we are to talk about relaunching, simplifying and restarting the country, we also start from mobility structures such as the one that insists on my municipality. Ours is a very important interchange zone for the territory, so much so that, during the blocking of the circulation, four Provinces have been interested and remained blocked by the stop of the trains, and this has certainly involved several problems. Thank goodness, no major damage was recorded and circulation could be resumed even quickly enough. I ask that my community, of which I am proudly part and which I represent in the City Council, although in the minority, be remembered not for a railway disaster nor for the neglect of the neighborhood around the railway station, already for many years the scene of clashes also of social type. It must be remembered as a community that knows how to leave and within which the Government itself will be able to invest and bring improvements to the local infrastructure. It must not be simply remembered as one of the many passing communities that can be seen from the window of a train traveling. The government must give it an eye on the matter because, although it is a small territory that has little to offer, it certainly has the desire to work. So we ask the government to help us. I am sorry that Senator Rampi, from my own country, who has already spoken on this issue is not present today. Both of us can do a good job of trying to bring investment to the benefit of the whole community. Convinced that there are no political colors at this point, I hope that the Government - obviously not here today - can take good note of what has just been said and help us work together to create truly worthy infrastructure of this name. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u13	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, 44 fire fronts on the night between 29 and 30 August in Western Sicily alone have devastated thousands of hectares of woodland, defacing its natural and landscape beauties, as well as causing considerable damage to people and their belongings. I want to name just a few of the best known places: San Vito Lo Capo; the Zingaro nature reserve; Alcamo; on the Madonie, the archaeological park of Himera; Monte Iato and, finally, the centuries-old wood of the Moarda, pride and pride of the Municipality of Altofonte, which stands at its feet, and where the tragedy almost touched. Experienced people of the places, knowledgeable of the laws of fire and certainly unscrupulous, took advantage of the warm wind of sirocco to implement this criminal plan. It is now easy to be indignant and swear against those who have materially brought about such a disaster. And this has been done by ordinary people, but it cannot be done by those in charge of governing and managing that territory and the human resources it has to prevent and value it. When, then, regional policy wants to escape its responsibilities, overlapping the emergency of the landings in Lampedusa, and makes a big voice with the national government to conceal its failures, in the hope of diverting the attention of the public, this is to say the least ridiculous, if not grotesque. It is precisely in the last hours that a meeting of the Regional Council is taking place in Palazzo d'Orléans, the seat of the Sicilian Regional Government, to discuss the prevention measures to be put into practice against fires. I hope that at least this time a Regional Council will finally be able to resolve the long-standing Sicilian forest issue, which affects more than 20,000 permanent forest workers, some for 151 working days, others for 101, others even for 68. The tragedy of the category of forest workers, hostage to the old policy with a promise of stabilisation, is no longer extendable. Family fathers and mothers cannot be held for more than twenty years hung from a thread of hope in anticipation of a stable location. This discourages, anguish and degrades human dignity. With our army of over 20,000 units we should be the flagship of the entire Italian Peninsula, since we absorb more than 50% of the employees in the sector at national level alone. And that is not the case: we are among the top places for number of fires and burned surface, and this is not free, because it involves a great expense, which already the Court of Auditors has quantified, ordering the Region an organic reform, which is late to come, because it is convenient to leave things as they are, since so far it has paid electorally. The Musumeci Government is therefore obliged to respond to an infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission as early as July 2019 for abusing fixed-term contracts, in particular forest workers, which Musumeci himself has repeatedly declared to be one of its priorities. I hope that at Palazzo d'Orléans we will also talk about giving dignity to the forest through a real work that enhances its professionalism matured over time, and stop standing up as paladins of the Sicilians against an invasion that took place more than a thousand years ago, which led to the birth of one of the most beautiful cultural expressions, concretized in Arab-Norman art, today UNESCO heritage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u16	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days the debate on education and school has started. Every political representative of the Italian Parliament has shown sensitivity to this issue, but it has not resulted in fruitful cooperation. Much attention was shown by the political leader of Brothers of Italy when on April 19 he invited the Government to consider the possibility of reopening schools as soon as possible for children aged six to twelve years. Still Brothers of Italy, on August 6, after having identified criticalities with regard to social distancing and the chicken classes, asked the Government for an early planning and above all the possibility of investing in equal schools. Now that the school is reopening and the classes have been equipped with about two million classic benches and 450,000 with wheels, the opposition raises the media dust to the limit of indecency, to the point that a Member accused Minister Azzolina of wasting the money. We have arrived at the wheelhouse, instead of thinking about building the future of our children: in the face of a sense of responsibility! I wonder if funding public school and investing in the future of the country equals the minority to wasting money. The 5 Star Movement has always worked against school dispersal, preserving the right to study our children. Never as with this government has the school seen a lot of money invested in a few months (about 7 billion from January to today). Among the various interventions, I recall the financing of school construction, just as requested by the Brothers of Italy; the recruitment of new staff through the regional school offices and, very briefly, two maxi competitions; the aid for the purchase of school kits for the most needy families, the digitization and the safety of schools. Given the anomalous agitation demonstrated in the last few days by the Brothers of Italy party, it comes to think that perhaps the problem is not that the Minister has spent too much money on public school, but that he has destined few to equal school. I remember that the hen classes are the result of the Berlusconi Government - supported also by Giorgia Meloni - with the former minister Gelmini. I ask you whether it is normal for the political leader of a party, woman and mother, to play on such a delicate subject as the future of our children. You can't change flags a few months later. What is needed now, ladies and gentlemen, is intellectual responsibility and honesty, especially at a time of great emotional fragility for Italian families. Evidently, for the oppositions to make political terrorism and create panic represents an opportunity to increase consensus in the polls, to the detriment - alas - of the young Italians. The school will finally reopen, ensuring the social distance between the students; in case this is not possible, the use of the masks provided by the school, along with the sanitizing gel, will be mandatory, and there will be no plexiglass, as mistakenly tells the Italian right. The reopening of schools for our children is synonymous with restart, normality and recovery of sociality and learning in complete safety. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u17	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-251.ana.u18	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, September 2, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.58 p.m.
