ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Balboni has the right to explain the question 3-01549 on the appointment of the head of the Department of Penitentiary Administration, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u4	Minister, as you know and as you know all of Italy, last Sunday, during a live television broadcast, Dr. Di Matteo, a well-known prosecutor, engaged in the front line in the fight against the mafia and current adviser to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, intervened by telephone saying that you would, at first, offer Dr. Di Matteo the prestigious position of head of the Department of the penitentiary administration, and then suddenly change your opinion the next day, offering him another assignment, to your say of equal importance, but, in reality, much less important and, among other things, already engaged by a valiant official, appointed a couple of months earlier. You, then, intervened immediately, also by telephone, and then with a press release. Excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta : you were absolutely not obliged to give explanations; an indisputable act, yours. However, he wanted to give an explanation and, then, Minister, when you give an explanation, this explanation must be plausible. And it is absolutely not likely that you could consider more important and more appropriate the role of responsible for criminal affairs than that of the head of the Department of the penitentiary administration: not only because it is an apical role in one case and not more apical in the other, as shows, moreover, also the compensation, enormously different between the one and the other case, but, above all, as I said before, because the role of responsible for criminal affairs was already engaged. When you give an explanation, Minister, you have to give it to the full. You consider the hypothesis, even just the idea, to be infamous that we can approach the threats that were formulated at that time by dangerous mob bosses against Di Matteo and I can agree that this approach must be infamous. Then, of the two: either you give us credible, truthful and truthful explanations or, if you think that Dr. Di Matteo did not tell the truth, you have to explain to us what initiatives you intend to take against Dr. Di Matteo, since you consider this approach infamous; or, alternatively, and I think it would be the most honorable choice... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] resign his resignation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u5	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u6	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators for giving me the opportunity to clarify some important points which, as I have already explained to the House of Members, will help to avoid the further degeneration of the surreal political debate these days. I repeat that in June 2018 there was simply no direct or indirect interference in the appointment of the head of the Department of Penitentiary Administration. As already known, the statements of some bosses were already known to the Ministry from June 9, 2018 and were, moreover, the subject of specific intercourse with Dr. Di Matteo already on the occasion of the first phone call that took place several days later. This confirms, if need be, the total absurdity of the illations carried out in the political debate these days. I repeat that in the normal interlocutions for the formation of the team I intended to involve Dr. Di Matteo knowing his professional profile and his career as an anti-Mafia magistrate. That's why I thought of two possible roles: the top of the penitentiary administration or, as I have already explained, a role that was somehow equivalent to the position held in its time by Giovanni Falcone, who was the former direction of criminal affairs following, clearly, reorganization. I was convinced, after the first call and on the occasion of the first meeting with the Ministry, that this second option was the right one because it would allow Dr. Di Matteo to work in via Arenula, as I have already said, by my side. The message, by the way, would have been clear and unequivocal for all the mafias. As now known, there were no conditions to realize the desired collaboration and it is totally unfounded the connection that was made in the question between these facts and the release of which has been talked about in these days, since those releases are the result of decisions of magistrates who have applied pre-existing laws that no one had ever modified when it was to the Government, until the decree-law approved last week by this Government with which it is established that, with respect to the authorities of release, the opinion of the national direction and the district directions anti-mafia is always mandatory. [[Applause]] As anticipated yesterday, there is, among other things, a decree-law in the pipeline that will allow judges, in the light of the new health framework, to re-evaluate the current persistence of the conditions for the release of high-security prisoners and 41-a. The questioners at the end of the question claim that they have some doubts; I can only suggest that they go through the list of all the laws that I have led to the approval of these two years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u7	Senator Balboni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u8	Minister, I am not entirely satisfied with your answer. Actually, she didn't answer. I am not satisfied because logic requires me not to be. You just said that when you offered Dr. Di Matteo the job, you were aware of the Mafia bosses' statements about Dr. Di Matteo. The Mafia bosses were concerned not with Dr. Di Matteo's appointment to the Ministry's criminal affairs, but with his appointment as head of the Department of Penitentiary Administration. So, Minister, if you wanted to fight the bosses, what better sign than to name Dr. Di Matteo where you knew the bosses didn't want him? [[Applause.]] That's the point you have to answer. Dear Minister, Agatha Christie said that a clue is just a clue, two clues are just a coincidence, but three clues are evidence. We have 376 clues here, not three. [[Applause]] They are the dangerous criminals and the bosses who have been released in these months and sent home, where among other things we do not understand why the danger of contagion must be less than in prison, where they live a reduced sociality, and can retangle the threads of organized crime. Here's the thing, Minister. And agree with Mr Lamorgese, because today you say in the press that the danger of infiltration is very serious and in this House two weeks ago, in my own question, Mr Lamorgese replied that there was no danger. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u9	I call the House. There are no objections. Have the courtesy. Senator Gallone has the right to explain the question 3-01547 on the appointment of the head of the Department of Penitentiary Administration, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr Bonafede, I am not going to describe the facts that I think are now known to everyone. I'll be brief and direct. What I would like to highlight here, which is the appropriate one, is the inappropriate circumstance that sees a Minister of Justice of this Republic juxtaposed to events involving interceptions of Mafia bosses in prison. After a very unpleasant exchange, which has seen a magistrate stand in the way of the Minister of Justice, I think we need only one thing: extreme and adamant clarity. You see, Minister Bonafede, you have managed to create a short circuit between politics and justice, between what you represent (the judicial institution) and the justice system. You continue to define the political debate in general as surreal, regardless of the fact that in our opinion, however, surreal it was the ways and places, absolutely inappropriate for such a delicate exchange, that you have dumbed down simply by misunderstanding. You continue to talk about interceptions, which, moreover, we wonder as if they were in the Ministry's availability. You must now make it clear, when you come to report in the Parliamentary Houses, that they are the place of popular representation, and you should have done so without solicitation, as you have done by taking prompt action in a television broadcast. It must give us not only here and now, during a question time, answers and guarantees, because this for Forza Italia is only the beginning. This is a wasp that needs to be fucked up: we want to know what happened then and why what happened today is happening. I do not need to remind you that, compared to what has happened, at other times and with other governments would have demanded the resignation of one or the other, indeed of the actors involved in this situation. At a time when, causing the nightmare that we are living with the emergency Country, even the jailer of a child dissolved in acid has gone out of jail, plus 375 others, you understand that they must not and cannot remain doubts, not even a very small one, because you hold the delegations of the key Ministry of the Government institution: you are the Minister of Justice, the Guardasigilli. We are a force of opposition, but the Government is the Government of all Italians and for this reason not even the smallest doubt can remain unanswered, by a Minister, then, who has made the most ferocious justiceism the reason for his commitment. Minister, how are you going to solve this case? We wait for you in this House to report to us that we are the country. [[Applause]] And perhaps, in the meantime, the office that belonged to Falcone should be strengthened, because today it no longer has the same prerogatives and characteristics. We would have an idea, but we want to be close to you, waiting for you to put it into practice, safeguarding the dignity of the institutions and all dignity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u11	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u12	Mr President, I have already had the opportunity to address a large part of the subject of the question, clearly explaining that there was no direct or indirect interference in the appointment of the head of the prison administration in June 2018. On all the questions which can be superimposed on those raised in the previous question, I can only refer to what has already been said. In addition, the interrogators ask for clarification regarding the interceptions in prison that, as such, would not have been known except by the judicial authority. I thank you for the specific question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify that these are not technical interceptions, because otherwise it would have been precisely so, but statements by prisoners contained in information from the prison police. [[Comments. Recalls of the President]] received to the Ministry through the ordinary channels on June 9, 2018. I would like to take this opportunity to have more time to clarify, as regards my willingness to report back to Parliament, that I have always respected Parliament - and I would not be able to do so - and I will continue to do so. Transparency continues to be the guiding value that the administration must carry out and in fact proves that yesterday I was in the Chamber of Deputies, today I am in the Senate and I had given availability for information already tomorrow. The Conference of Group Leaders in the House has decided for next week. I know you will have to hold a Conference of the Leaders in the Senate, so I turn to Parliament's sovereignty in order to identify its calendar. (Appalusi). With regard to the continuous reference to the release and the connection with the laws of this Government, I invite everyone not to agree on an opinion, but to make an operation truth that, in the context of an important matter such as the fight against the Mafia, is fundamental, because when we talk about the fight against the Mafia we talk about defending the democracy of this country. Then let's make it clear that those releases took place under laws that didn't approve this government and that they had been there for years and that no one had ever changed. (Appalusi). Let's say clearly, once and for all, that in the decree so-called care Italy there is no law that leads to the release of mobsters and indeed mobsters is precluded the possibility of accessing the penitentiary benefits. [[Applause.]] Just tell the truth, then you can agree or not, but I think telling the truth is the right thing in such a delicate matter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u13	Senator Gallone has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u14	It is clear that the reform of the Minister's reply leaves us completely dissatisfied, so we are confident that he will return to this House to report officially. However, I would like to point out, first of all, that there was a DAP circular which obviously created chaos from the point of view of imprisonment and release and the fact remains that the Mafia bosses were released, therefore eternal process for citizens, release for the Mafia bosses. [[Applause.]] This remains for us a vulnus, an unacceptable issue, so beyond the applause of the party we wait for it, Minister, for a thorough and concrete answer, because even today - I repeat - you are deconstructing a question which, if it had happened at other times, would have had a completely different outcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u15	Senator Urraro has the right to explain the question 3-01545 on the release of some prisoners in prison because of the coronavirus, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question is based on the survey of a weekly week of 21 April 2020, but of course from that date to today the story has taken on absolutely dramatic outlines, at an emerging moment of crisis when the mafias have always set themselves up as agencies for the services of poverty and hardships, so it is all the more reason that the story has amplified. It is asked to know first of all whether the Minister was aware of the danger of the released prisoners and the reasons that led to the granting of the detention and, above all, whether he does not think it appropriate to review the parameters on the basis of which the circular of 21 March was issued by the Department of the penitentiary administration. The latter, however, is not the only one; there is in fact another circular referring to the talks between prisoners as well as a circular of the National Anti-Mafia Directorate of 23 April 2020, not communicated to the national prosecutor: from 23 April 2020 onwards we had an average of 10-12 releases per day. This is an important fact that places an objective responsibility of the Minister with regard to the matter, which is unfair to the many investigators, the many judges who for over thirty years have been making their utmost commitment and who today we see frustrated almost daily, with enormous risks such as the futility and the increase of conflicts. Just yesterday's events in Torre Annunziata, the area from which I come, are already a symptomatic signal of what is happening with respect to the Mafia assets that are currently moving, with an important role of the Forces of Order, which see complex. The complexity was already in the high security regime, in the regime of 41-bis; let alone what it means to control 371 persons under house arrest. This is a fundamental fact for us, which cannot even be contained in a few minutes of question time, so we will certainly ask for a more detailed speech from the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u17	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u18	Mr President, as the interrogators have acknowledged, the granting of house arrest in the cases referred to has taken place under the provisions of the judicial authority. The principles and rules of our Constitution are uniquely geared to affirming the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. This means that there is no government that can impose or even only influence judges' decisions. The Constitution leaves no room for speculation that the circular of a Director-General of a Department of a Ministry may dictate the decision of a magistrate. [[Applause.]] This - allow me, Senator Urraro - is the ABC of the Constitution. The waivers referred to are discretionary decisions which can be challenged in accordance with the relevant rules. [[Applause.]] The abovementioned circular of 21 March 2020 merely provided for the transmission to the judicial authority - by the directorates - of the names of prisoners who were in particular health conditions; nothing else. Subsequently, the circular of 24 April 2020 was issued, which provides for the obligation - for prison directors - to transmit to the National Anti-Mafia Directorate and to the competent District Directorates the reports or requests concerning the restricted subject to the regime referred to in Article 41-bis or assigned to the high-security circuit. This is in order to allow the National Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism Directorate to provide, already before the decree-law, the surveillance offices with all useful information regarding the danger of the prisoner and the operation of the organization of belonging. With the same aim of guaranteeing to the judicial authority the greatest possible completeness of data, the same Government, in the decree-law of 30 April last, has previewed that, against instances of release that interest prisoners for crimes of mafia, the opinion of the National Directorate anti-mafia and anti-terrorism and the District Directions anti-mafia and anti-terrorism must be acquired. Subsequently, just on the day of the taking of possession of the new Deputy Chief DAP, the circular of 2 May 2020 was issued, which invites the directors of the penitentiary institutions to immediately communicate to the Department the claims submitted by the prisoners subject to the regime referred to in Article 41-bis or belonging to the circuit of high security. This further and unequivocal confirmation of the constant attention of the Government and the Ministry of Justice to the contrast of the Mafia phenomenon in all its forms. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u19	Senator Urraro has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u20	Mr President, I am not satisfied, especially I who have joined in the past a hypothesis of change, especially on the issues of justice, which has been frustrated over the course of a few months. The central theme is mainly related to the circulars and to the circular of the DAP; it turns out that there are not even specific instances of release, but in automatic, with the excuse of the virus, measures have been taken that go to circumvent a whole series of forecasts regarding the granting of benefits: this is the primary data on it must be focused, beyond the instances of the individual defenses on the release. [[Applause]] The automaticity with respect to the gravity of what happened is evident. We cannot go back on that at all. This Government and this Parliament had to intervene and provide criteria to the magistrates of oversight, on which we cannot discharge the entire weight of the matter, which they are legitimately operating, albeit each in an autonomous and discretionary manner. We also had to intervene at the outcome of the Constitutional Court's ruling; we had to intervene on the subject of life imprisonment and on Article 4 of the penitentiary order: all shortcomings and all vulnus of which today, in these emergent days, we pose an emergency in the emergency and we cannot allow it to be done in relation to a subject as serious as that of the Mafia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u21	Senator D'Angelo has the right to explain the question 3-01555 on the release of some prisoners in prison because of the coronavirus, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there have been numerous requests for release for Covid-19 risk, for prisoners included in the so-called high-security circuits and even for some subjects subject to 41-a. The numbers tell of a full list of prisoners authorized by the judiciary for surveillance - I repeat authorized by the judiciary for surveillance - to continue to serve the sentence under house arrest, four months after the declaration of the national emergency, by virtue not of specific legislation issued ad hoc by the Government, but of pre-existing legislation, i.e. Article 47-b, paragraph 1-b on the penitentiary order. In particular, the attention of the public has focused on the fact that the above list includes the names of bosses and subjects in any case linked to cosche and considered of high social danger, however, considering that, already with the decree-law 30 April 2020, n. 28, which was assigned in the referent to the Commission Justice of the Senate on 6 May 2020, Article 2 has been made some changes to the procedural discipline of the so-called house detention by way of derogation, i.e. substitution of the deferment of the execution of the sentence, as provided by Article 47-b of Law n. 354 of 1975. Specifically, the news in question consists in providing for a greater intercourse, by means of the expression of a mandatory opinion, aimed at ascertaining whether or not the links with organised crime and the social danger of the prisoner, by the district attorney, where the court which issued the judgment, in the case of crimes provided for in Article 51, paragraphs 3-a and 3-b, or by the prosecutor anti-mafia and anti-terrorism, in the cases of prisoners subject to the prison regime provided for in Article 41-a of Law 354 of 1975, to be rendered precisely to the judiciary of supervision in order to rule on the premises of a possible postponement of the execution of the sentence under house arrest. It is therefore asked to know, put the positive effects of the aforementioned decree in the process of conversion, what will be the further measures, not only arranged with a decree of urgency, but also at the administrative level, which will also be put in place by the competent structures, such as the department of the penitentiary administration, in order to remedy the situation that has arisen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u23	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators for allowing me to reiterate the important principle that, while respecting the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, it is essential for the legislator to play his part and never lose sight of the importance of monitoring the everyday reality of the citizens, in order to constantly oversee their rights. An emblematic example of what I am saying is perfectly represented, from my point of view, by the measure strongly desired by this majority, Decree-Law No 28 of 30 April 2020, referred to in the question, according to which, with regard to the requests for release that interest prisoners for Mafia crimes, the opinion of the National Anti-Mafia and Counter-Terrorism Directorate and the anti-Mafia and Counter-Terrorism District Directorates must be acquired. The aim of the decree-law in question is to provide a more complete picture to the judges of surveillance with regard to the dangerousness of the prisoners, thanks to the fundamental contribution of those who every day, at national and district level, are in trenches in the fight against the mafias. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all these servants of the State here. [[Applause.]] The circle closes with the draft decree-law on site, which will allow the magistrate of surveillance to re-evaluate the measures already granted to the change of the health framework in phase 2 of the emergency from coronavirus; this further confirms the constant attention of the Government and the Ministry of Justice to the contrast of the mafia phenomenon in all its forms. The course of action that I have followed as Minister of Justice has been, is and will continue to be based on the utmost determination in the fight against mafias. [[Applause.]] As I said yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies, it is enough to scroll through every word of every bill that I have brought to the approval in these two years, from the so-called scrambled law to the last decree-law. I would like to say that it is essential that the anti-mafia front continues to be compact. I would like to recall, right here, when it comes to the fight against the Mafia, the important reform of the political-mafia voting crime, which was born on a parliamentary initiative and was finally adopted in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u25	Senator D'Angelo may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, for which I am satisfied. I also welcome the measures which have been announced and which appear to be aimed at resolving the situation that has arisen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u27	Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-01550 on the rules for natural gas distribution networks, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u28	Mr Dear Minister, I would like to make a specific point, which is very much felt in mountain areas. The ARERA, with the recent resolution n. 570 of 2019, confirmed the roof to investments in the construction of natural gas distribution networks in new locations. This roof does not in fact make all those natural gas distribution networks which cannot be connected to a customer at least every 20 metres. The limits of one meter every 20 meters, already difficult to be found in the urban centers, makes it impossible to extend the natural gas network to the mountain municipalities, in particular those with low population density, and in fact creates a discrimination between municipalities already in the past methanized, series A, and non-metanized municipalities, series B. To overcome the limitations highlighted in the preamble, the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the mountain community of Val Camonica proposed an amendment when expressing their opinion on the draft legislative decree for the implementation of the European Union Directive 2019/692 amending Directive 2009/73/EC on common rules for the internal market in natural gas, in order to ensure, as required by Directive 2009/73/EC, non-discrimination between users, or to ensure that mountain municipalities in climate zones F cease to be non-metanizable and therefore to be considered as B series compared to those already metanized. Legal certainty must be ensured for the gas infrastructure investor, i.e. by giving fair remuneration for the capital invested, without penalising the areas and raising unit costs in the mountain municipalities. It is necessary to support the local economy and the competitiveness of the enterprises, in particular in this phase 2, which allows the activities of yard connected to the construction of infrastructures (ATECO42), promoting the infrastructural investments and making available to the enterprises and citizens a clean and convenient fuel. He wonders if he does not consider, Minister, to share the above observations and if he does not consider to accept them in the legislative decree for the implementation of the EU Directive n. 692 of 2019 cited, as a sign of concrete and immediate intervention of the Government in support of the economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u29	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the interrogating senators. In the premises of the act under discussion, reference is made to the resolution n. 570/2019 of 27 December last with which the Authority of regulation for energy networks and environment (ARERA) approved the regulation of the tariffs of gas distribution and measurement services for the period of regulation 2020-2025. In particular, the interrogating senators note that the confirmation of the roof to the investments in the construction of natural gas distribution networks in new locations and the limit of one connection counter every 20 meters, contemplated in this resolution, would render the development of the distribution network in the mountain municipalities with low density housing among which those of South Tyrol. In this regard, an amendment has already been tabled on the same subject by the Autonomous Provinces of Bolzano and Trento and the mountain community of Val Camonica, as part of the work on the acquisition of the opinion of the Permanent Conference for State-Regions and Autonomous Provinces on the transposition of EU Directive 692 of 17 April 2019 amending Directive 2009/73/EC and its common rules for the internal gas market. It should be noted first of all that the object of the legislative decree referred to by the questioning senators will also concern the application of the rules of the Union market to transport pipelines to and from third countries, with the aim of overcoming the obstacles still present to the completion of the European natural gas market, resulting from the non-application to these infrastructures of the same European rules on transparency. In particular, the measures introduced in implementation of this Directive will ensure the applicability of the Community framework provided for in Directive 2009/73/EC now applied within the Union also to transport pipelines connecting the Union with third countries and, in the specific case of Italy, therefore, also transport pipelines from the limit of our territorial waters to the first point of interconnection with the Italian network. The opinion of the Permanent Conference on State Relations - Regions and Autonomous Provinces, as well as the favourable opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees, has been acquired on the transposition decree. In view of this, the issue raised by the interrogating senators appears formally unrelated to the scope of the delegation conferred by the Parliament to the Government and the proposed amendment could therefore not be accepted within the framework of the aforementioned legislative decree transposing the same directive as it would go beyond the perimeter of delegation brought by Article 25 of the law of European delegation 2018. On the substance, however, it should be noted that the issue raised also arises in other territorial areas. In such cases, the possible recognition of the higher costs to be incurred for the metanization of the areas concerned would result in a redistributive impact on the users, to be defined whether to charge also to the other users already metanized, within the micro territorial areas defined by the ARERA in order to determine the rates. Therefore, it will be considered whether a possible legislative proposal can take into account the various aspects involved by the Senator elsewhere, while respecting the needs of all the users involved, in particular the South Tyrolean mountain communities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u31	Minister, the exception of the alleged formal extraneousness on the subject which we had already heard in the Commission obviously does not fully support it, given that the directive under consideration, namely No 692, 2019, amends Directive 2009/73/EC relating to the internal market in natural gas. In any case, we take note of the answer and thank you for your availability. We will take this opportunity to submit the request in one of the next steps. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u32	Senator Faraone has the right to explain the question 3-01552 on business support measures after the emergency from Covid-19, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u33	Minister, Antonio Nogara, a small businessman from Campania of fifty-seven years, took his own life, committing suicide in his shed because he could no longer pay the suppliers and salaries to the employees. He was a person who was used to honoring his commitments and, therefore, such a situation caused him too much pain. Therefore, first of all, I would like to express our closeness to the newly graduated wife and daughter. [[Applause.]] Unfortunately, the growth of usury crimes in March makes us understand that organized crime is stealing businesses built with great effort by various honest entrepreneurs who have made so many sacrifices. That data has to alarm us. I believe that we must start from them in order to take measures that are useful and appropriate for entrepreneurs. Carlo Alberto from the Church said: "The State gives as a right what the Mafia gives as a favor." I believe that lessons must be drawn from these words in order to prevent organised crime from taking hold on a ground which, on the other hand, must be seen by the state as the protagonist. From North to South, unfortunately, many entrepreneurs do not feel safe at this stage. Minister, you are the highest representative in the field of productive activities and businesses and, therefore, we expect so much from you, that you are a trade unionist of the interests of entrepreneurs. We need to put in place a number of appropriate measures. I believe that we will have to act in the area of amending the so-called liquidity decree, and we want to ask you whether you agree with our proposals to extend to 100% the state guarantee for loans up to EUR 800,000 and the possibility of returning to the loan with a duration of no more than six but ten years. We would ask you, Minister, if you would like to put measures in place in favour of companies that can balance what we are already adopting in the field of assistance. It is appropriate to give resources to companies, without cross-compliance and without cross-compliance: if these are the conditions that we have asked for in Europe for our country, we must also guarantee them to our entrepreneurs. We want to know whether, from this point of view, the Government and you, Minister, intend to put in place actions that can promote productive activities and guarantee real work. When we arrive at a public debt of 160 percent of GDP and we will no longer have the resources to pay the subsidies and if the companies that hire - indeed, they will fire - will fail then our country will risk going through the troubles. Therefore, less statism and interventionism - let us avoid even participation in the boards of directors of the companies - and let us open instead to give entrepreneurs the tools to be able to withstand and face the crisis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u34	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. First of all, I also hold on to the family of the entrepreneur who has decided to take his own life. I think it's a tragedy, regardless of why a person decides to take his own life. Therefore, we must get close to that family and understand the moment of great difficulty that many, many entrepreneurs in our country are facing right now. I am referring to the 5,800,000 VAT matches in our country, a number that I bring back to show the extent of the drama of a fabric that is not only entrepreneurial but also social, being so widespread. We need to be close to this fabric with support for corporate income and businesses in the strict sense. It is undeniable that the effects of the so-called liquidity decree are detrimental to the attitude of some banking institutions that are not cooperating as they should and could in the delivery of the different financing methods that we have identified in the measure. Some data, however, is good to know. More than 91,973 applications were received, for a total of 5,595 million euros in terms of liquidity provided: among them - these are the data on 5 May and, therefore, dating back to the day before yesterday evening - over 70,310 applications concern microfinance from 25,000 euros, for a total of 1,486,814,500 euros. It is still little, but I remember that on April 3, the Temporary Framework provided 100% guarantee and Italy is the only country in the whole European panorama to guarantee 100% state guarantee. On 8 April the liquidity decree was published in the Official Journal. On 13 April there was European authorization, because it was necessary to intervene; on 17 April the information systems of the Central Mediocredit and the Central Guarantee Fund were aligned with those of the banks. On April 20 the questions arrived; on April 22 there were the first disbursements. It is clear - as I said in the preamble - that not all credit institutions cooperate as they should and could. It is true, however, that the regulatory instrument made available can work and is working for so many people. It is not enough and it is the Government's intention - as is well known - to intervene with the so-called lost fund for an amount of at least 10 billion, which is added to the 5 of the 600 euro bonus - a measure that has been confirmed by the Ministry of Labour, as the Minister Catalfo, who sits here next to me - that will be increased for two months, so we will have about 15 billion in the next decree exclusively for the lost fund. I believe that this is one of the other instruments that we must make available especially to the world of micro and small business, because it is clear that the lost fund for a company that invoicing EUR 100 million is difficult to guarantee. However, there is the whole world of micro-enterprises which, on the other hand, must be supported with the lost fund. For larger companies it is not the Government's intention to enter the boards of directors of companies: freedom of enterprise is a constitutional principle that the Government has well in mind. On the other hand, it is necessary to facilitate the recapitalisation of companies, because the undercapitalization of our industrial system is one of the atavistic problems of our productive capacities, which would also make it difficult to access credit to the companies themselves, precisely because they are under-patrimonialized and undercapitalized. In the next decree there will also be elements of perspective: I am thinking of ecobonus at 110%; how to re-launch the building and the tax credit that will be guaranteed by strengthening the Business 4.0 plan, bringing it to a period of three years. I think, however, above all, of a tax credit linked to the necessary transformations of the production lines for the protection of employees and entrepreneurs themselves from the Covid-19. Companies will have to invest to adapt the production lines, to ensure the distance and those investments must be supported through tax credit mechanisms immediately available to financial institutions in order to create, precisely, the liquidity necessary to realize the investments themselves. I believe that we must move on to these three directives, as we are doing in the next decree: a lost fund - on the one hand - recapitalisation - on the other - and a tax credit for investments as a third element, and not only for investments in the factory, but also for the construction sector, which can be the engine of the economic rebirth of our country, as in the second post-war period was the reconstruction and construction of the large house plans for public housing. I believe that the energy redevelopment of our building heritage can be a driving force for the economic recovery of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u36	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u37	Minister, I hope that on liquidity, precisely in order to meet what you yourself said - that is to say to deburrocraticize and facilitate those who need loans - the three changes to which I referred can be made: extension of the guarantee to EUR 800,000 to 100%; extension of the possibility of paying these loans in ten years and not in six; self-certification of up to EUR 100,000. If the entrepreneur fails, he pays; but if we do not put these three measures in place, we will continue to see the slowness of the measure and the insecurity of the entrepreneurs who will continue to access it relatively. You then referred to the Company 4.0 plan: on the lost fund we use that model. We must not tell companies what they have to do, how they have to do it and even introduce people into the boards of directors and I do not say that just to say it. I have read in recent days an interview in a newspaper to a majority member, so I am concerned from this point of view and I repeat: the State does not enter the boards of directors of companies. On the other hand, we must ensure and encourage the aggregation of smaller companies, the training of workers and innovation. We do not, however, put our beaks in everything that is the responsibility of companies, because entrepreneurs know how to do that job much better than we do. We do not need fucked politicians who go to the boards to say what they have to do: entrepreneurs think about it, they are better. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u38	Senator Astorre has the right to explain the question 3-01551 on Alitalia's organisation in the new public management, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u39	I would like to take this opportunity to thank both Minister Catalfo, who is present, because yesterday it was signed a new agreement for the Cassa Integrazione of about 7,000 Alitalia workers, and, in a non-ritual way, Alitalia itself, who also carried out a civic service during this period, in returning home many of our fellow countrymen who remained abroad. Governments of all colors, in the years from 2017 to today, have allocated approximately 1.8 billion for Alitalia: unfortunately the failure of the various procedures of cession has led our Government, with decree-law n. 18 of 2020, the so-called care Italy, to authorize also the constitution of a new NewCo to public participation or to prevailing public participation, with the task to carry out for Alitalia the activities necessary to guarantee certain others. Of course, this has worsened with the crisis caused by the Covid-19, which has affected all the world's air transport companies. I believe that this is the time to address this issue and make us ready when air transport starts again, which I hope will return as soon as possible to having the cards in order, when the market will be fully operational again. Today our fleet of Alitalia has 113 aircraft. Since the various hearings, both the Commissioner and the Minister, we have heard that a number of 92 aircraft are considered sufficient to restart the company. Since, however, it is in public participation, we ask to know at what point are the procedures for the sale of the branches of company; whether we intend to proceed, in the more of the aforementioned procedures of transfer, to the identification of new industrial partners; what are the priority guidelines of the new industrial plan, in particular for the international routes; whether within the new industrial plan the maintenance of the current occupational levels is envisaged; whether it corresponds to the truth that, in the first months of operation, there will be an airline reduced, with the prevalence of flights on the national and European routes and a reduction of the international ones, with preference for the most profitable ones of North and South America; and finally if it considers that the planned composition of the air fleet of NewCo Alitalia is adequate to guarantee in the future market of air transport the revenues necessary for the economic and financial equilibrium, to the strengthening of the fleet itself and in particular to the maintenance of the occupational levels. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u40	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. The density of the questions asked is inversely proportional to the time allowed for the answer. I am therefore, unfortunately, also in parts of the hearing that I recently made to the House on the same subject. However, I want to dwell on some points, making a very clear premise: the Government's intention is not yet another attempt to rescue, but a revival of the flag carrier that, in the air transport market, must be a reference point equal to the great attractiveness of the Alitalia brand and the great capacity that it demonstrated until twenty years ago, when it was really the flagship of our country. This is the government's goal and not just a rescue. At the moment, the hypothesis of a sale ban has been suspended and the constitution of Newco to public capital will then proceed to the rent of the branches of the company own in order to speed up the procedure. The extraordinary commissioner is identifying the precise business perimeter for the transfer of the rent of the branch of the company. To give the measure of the Government's intention with respect to the flag company, I can tell you that the initial capital of Newco cannot be less than 3 billion, precisely because we want to equip the company with a real plan to relaunch the air transport market. Employment levels will be protected to the fullest extent, in accordance with the current conditions of the companies today. It is clear that, at this moment, the transport is completely stationary, but the flights, through a fleet already transferred as a branch of company for rent to Newco, will have to be ready to restart immediately, as soon as the bands of market will reopen, in order to conquer markets today in suffering. I am thinking - for example - of the industrial plan that must be strongly focused, and will strongly aim, on the long-range, also with possible new transatlantic pacts and new transatlantic alliances. I believe that the long haul is one of the great assets to invest in. There is an ongoing assessment of the expansion of the cargo fleet, because we have understood how important it is at the moment. There is no downsizing of the company; indeed, there are 113 aircraft, but they have been flying less than 100 for more than a year. A very strong operation was carried out by the Commissioner on leasing, with very important agreements that saved more than €115 million compared to the lessors. The fleet, initially adequate, may be the one numerically mentioned by the Senator, but it will also have to be ready to find new aircraft on the market, given that, precisely, this moment can be favorable for the investments. Alitalia was always disadvantaged compared to other companies, due to its previous situation and the cargo it carried. Today, in the misfortune that we are experiencing (of course I do not mean that it is a positive aspect), there is certainly equal competitiveness with other companies. I don't think standalone is a possibility. The future Atlantic alliances must be carefully assessed. It will, of course, be the task of Newco's new management to proceed in this direction, but I believe that there are finally all the conditions for Alitalia to become again the flagship that has been for many years for our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Astorre to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u42	Minister, we are pleased with your reply, especially because we have noted the Government's willingness to relaunch the company and not merely rescue it. Of course, we ask you and the Commissioner to carefully evaluate the strategic plan and future alliances, especially for the pride of the Alitalia brand, also in consideration of the fact that the crisis - as you have emphasized - has substantially at this moment placed a little 'all at the same level. I would like to point out that, with regard in particular to the Fiumicino hub and the area in which we are located, maintaining the level of employment in relaunching the company is an absolutely fundamental fact for us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u43	Senator Laforgia has the right to explain the question 3-01548 on support for women's work in the light of the current epidemic crisis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u44	Minister, the subject of the question I am asking you, which obviously cannot be contained in a few minutes' jokes, is the heart of the debate that we must develop in the coming months. The impression - and not only the impression, because the data say - is that a beautiful part of the economic and social crisis, the one already underway and the one that will come, will weigh first - alas - on the shoulders of women, who are already paying an important price in terms of sacrifice; in terms of removal from the world of work, or even exit from the labour market and entry into an area of inactivity; in relation to that chapter that is producing a significant discomfort, and I refer to the management of family loads and of their children, for that vacuum that has caused the closure of schools. Minister, we cannot afford to jump backwards into a distant past on the very level of women's status. And I say this also in relation to some changes in the labour market that are already taking place and that we must not have a luddist approach to, but we must even be fascinated by. I am thinking about the whole issue of technology and how work changes in relation to the issue of technological innovations. Many Italians have measured themselves in this time of quarantine with the smart working, a charming expression that however contains some pitfalls in the absence of a framework of rules. Smart working, i.e. distance work, in the absence of rules on the right to disconnect - for example - and in general of an overall redesign of the relationship between living and working times, can mean - alas - unpaid work overload. This, once again, is linked to the theme of family management and becomes not only a nightmare for many women, but also a further increase in their condition. I think, therefore, that the Government - this is the issue - must do a lot about it and I ask what it is actually doing on this very ground. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u45	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Catalfo, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u46	Mr President, Senators, Senator Laforgia, it is well known that in our country, although all the data at our disposal show a greater performance of women from school and university, the rate of female employment is stablely lower than that of men. Istat tells us that in 2019 there is a female employment rate of 50 percent, compared with 68 percent of the male employment rate. And this is obviously a very marked gap that puts us in a big difference compared to other European countries. In the light of the data on women's employment in the current epidemiological emergency, which has led to the closure of almost total educational services in schools, structural measures are now needed more than ever in terms of reconciling life and work, designed in such a way as to encourage effective rebalancing of care responsibilities, which are still all too often exclusive to women. As Minister of Labour, from the outset I have considered and I believe it to be a priority to take action to address the gender pay gap. The introduction of a minimum wage can go towards this address, such as the contrast to the abuse of the involuntary part-time, often imposed on women. It is also necessary to transpose the Directive on the reconciliation of work and life, which requires, inter alia, the necessary allocation of a share of parental leave to the father. I also consider it necessary to take action to ensure equal career progression for women, eliminating all forms of inequality and creating income support measures to meet the costs of childcare services. During the emergency phase - said Senator Laforgia - the use of smart working was the main tool to allow workers to operate safely. It is clear that, due to the urgent need for emergency management, there has been no possibility to regulate in an express way, let alone in negotiation, aspects of an organisational nature, including the right to disconnect. To this end, it is my intention to launch a discussion table aimed at revising the discipline of agile work as a suitable tool to deal with the gradual reopening of activities, with a view to a ratio that leads to innovation of the working instrumentation in the hands of companies and social partners in the organization of work. In the current phase of the health crisis, we have planned - as we all know - further measures aimed at ensuring support for family care responsibility and designed with particular attention to the aspect of gender neutrality. I am talking about the fifteen days of parental leave, which is related to both parents, which any worker can take up to the age of 12 years of the child; or also about the babysitter bonus for all workers, raised to 1,000 euros for health workers and for law enforcement. However, it is my intention to strengthen these measures in the next decree, through the extension of parental leave to be taken in the emerging period, and to propose the babysitter bonus by introducing a novelty, i.e. the possibility to use it also for childcare and summer centers. It is necessary to prevent the emergency leading to the worsening of the care loads, all too often delegated exclusively to the woman. For this reason, with ministers Bonetti, Azzolina and Spadafora, with the Regions and with the ANCI, we have defined guidelines that we have submitted to the technical-scientific committee, in order to be able to reopen the summer centers and children's services in safety. I conclude by saying that, in order for women to have real opportunities for life and work in our country, we must remove all obstacles of not only social and economic character, but also cultural, allowing them to implement their own life project in full autonomy - these are the key words - and with self-determination. I'm sure we can achieve a good result together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u47	I give the floor to Senator Laforgia to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u48	Mr Minister, your words comfort me, because it means that the subject is at the heart of the Government, which is seriously working on it. We have all read the stories of those extraordinary women who have endured the impact of the health emergency and we are also moved Reading them. I think of that young anesthesiologist who in fact discovered the first case of coronavirus, saving thousands of human lives; or the young researchers of Spallanzani, whom we applauded, some of whom have incredible stories of precariousness that lasted for many years. And there are so many more. Minister - and you are well aware of this, because as a woman, you are at the top of one of the institutions of this country - we cannot, however, allow only the tribute of criticism to women in Italy. We need concrete action to achieve exactly what you referred to. I say this as a man, and not because women do not know how to do what they have historically done, that is, to fight for their rights and their emancipation, but because we do not get out of this situation if we do not collectively assume this theme, which means fighting together, women and men, for some goals that are not in the hyperuranium to be reconstructed, but can also be achieved in this legislature. I am referring to equal pay, equal access to opportunities and a comprehensive redesign of welfare. And we must do this by proposing in an intelligent and contemporary way the system of parental leave, because all this cannot be entrusted only to an element of culture, which we must aspire to, but we also need rules. We have to do this in order to increase the legal civilization of our country by some degree and I also say its own civilization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u49	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u52	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I remind myself and all my colleagues... [[Brusio]] Since my colleague kept saying to keep quiet, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u53	Excuse me, but I'm being pointed at a gathering of people, but I've already urged my fellow senators. Leave it to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u54	Please, Senator Pillon. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). I remind myself that Article 7 of the Constitution guarantees the independence and mutual sovereignty of the State and the Church and Article 19 of our Constitution guarantees the freedom for all Italian citizens to freely profess the faith in individual and associated form and to exercise its worship in private and public. These are articles of the Constitution written with the blood of martyrs who in two thousand years preferred death rather than renounce the sacraments. Dominic sine non possumus, cried the martyrs of Abitina, 49 Christians martyred by Diocletian in 304 after Christ. Their bishop obeyed the imperial edict and handed the sacred texts to the authorities, but the faithful with the priest Saturnino continued to celebrate the Mass and were therefore arrested, tortured and killed and all before dying said: "Sine dominico non posssumus ". Well, these articles of the Constitution written with the blood of the martyrs are made overwhelmed by a subordinate administrative act, a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 8 March 2020, by which this Government in letter i) blocks any possibility of religious celebrations with the people. If a center-right government had done it, you would have all gone to the streets and shouted at the scandal over the violation of religious freedom. [[Applause]] But as you do, then you can do anything, even with a decree from the President of the Council of Ministers contradicting the most basic religious freedoms we have in our country. The first Passover has just passed in two thousand years without sacraments; we have seen priests denounced as in China, interrupted masses. Full solidarity I want to profess to Fr Lino Viola and to all the parish priests who saw the mass interrupted because of the unfortunate decree of the President of the Council of Ministers; dead people were burned like dogs, without funeral, closed in unnamed urns, with good peace of what according to Foscolo distinguished us from the beasts. We even have a mocking Fiorello asking us to pray in the toilet. We did not build the cathedrals as Christians and then be locked in the bathroom to pray. [[Applause]] Those who decided all this left the Italian people without sacraments just at the most difficult moment in its recent history. Not even Mussolini, not even Hitler dared so much, and you did it with the virus's excuse. And yet, you left the supermarkets, the emporiums and even the tobacconists open, but no crops. You've reopened the farms, you've even opened the grooming of dogs, but no crops. Now you have no more excuses: an agenda has passed to the Senate, approved by this House on 8 April, and yesterday an amendment to the House and despite this still no talk of masses. We are not dogs, but incarnate souls, called to eternal life. You left us food for the body that dies and you took it away for the immortal soul. If you wanted to, you could have found a way to secure the sacraments in safety. The truth is that this Government has a profoundly anti-Christian soul. [[Applause.]] You do not understand, otherwise, because 14 people can go to Mass if there is a coffin, but the same 14 people can no longer go to Mass if there is no coffin; you understand me: we hear the ridicule. [[Applause.]] That is enough and I ask you, President, in your very high institutional role, to be - please - an interpreter of the sentiment and will of so many Italian citizens and families deprived of soul food for two months now. Please intercede with the Government so that the public celebration of the sacraments will be reopened immediately, now. And this I do not say as an appeal, but the good God or, if you prefer, for those who do not believe in it, history has always done justice to those who oppressed his people, from Pharaoh to Diocletian and all his empire, to dictators from here and there. I wouldn't want that to happen to this government, too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u55	Colleagues, on agreement of all the Leaders, at 11.30 am the Conference of the Leaders is convened, to be held in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-215.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 10.51 a.m.)
