ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u4	I communicate that the President of the Senate received the following letter from President Mario Rosario Morelli: I have the honour to inform you, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 87 of 1953, that the Constitutional Court, meeting today at its headquarters in the Palazzo della Consulta, elected me President. Signed: Mario Rosario Morelli Of course, on behalf of the whole House, I wish you every success in your work on such an important task, especially when you speak to Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 8 October. Today's sitting will be discussed the decree-law extension emergency Covid-19, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, in order to which the Government announced the position of the issue of trust. The week from 28 September to 2 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the decree-law on the support and relaunch of the economy and guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The schedule of proceedings from 5 to 8 October provides Monday 5, starting at 12, the discussion of the decree-law on the support and the revival of the economy and in the following days the Statement of the State 2019 and the adjustment 2020, as well as the general discussion of the law of European delegation 2019 and the related reports on the participation of Italy in the European Union. On Thursday 8 October the discussion will take place on the report of the 5th and 14th Commissions on the guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. At 6.30 p.m. today is convened the Board for the Rules of Procedure to start the process of amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, following the outcome of the constitutional referendum on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 22 September 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of the Assembly until 8 October: [[Wednesday, September 23, h. 10 - Drawing of law n. 1928, Decree-Law n. 83, Extension of emergency COVID-19 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (cancelled on September 28) Thursday 24 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] The week from 28 September to 2 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Monday 5 October h 12 - Drawing of law n. 1925 - Decree-Law n. 104, Support and relaunch of the economy (decades on 13 October) - Drawing of law n. 1912 and 1913 - Report 2019 and Settlement 2020 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - General discussion of the bill no. 1721 - European delegation law 2019 (final vote with the presence of the quorum) and related Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, n. 3, reporting on Italy's participation in the European Union - Report of the Commissions meeting 5a and 14a on the Guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (Thursday 8) Tuesday 6 " h 10 Wednesday 7 " h. 9.30 Thursday 8 " h. 9.30]] Amendments to draft law no. 1912 and 1913 (Report 2019 and Settlement 2020) and No. 1721 (Law of European Delegation 2019) will have to be submitted by 6 p.m. on Thursday 1 October. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1928 (Decree-Law No. 83, Emergency extension COVID-19) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 4' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FI-BP 45' PD 35' Mixed 31' IV-PSI 27' FdI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1925 (Decree-Law No. 104, Support and recovery of the economy) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' FI-BP 1 h. 3' PD 49' Mixed 43' IV-PSI 38' FdI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 1912 and 1913 (Report 2019 and Settlement 2020) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 38' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FI-BP 27' PD 21' Mixed 19' IV-PSI 16' FdI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1721 (Law of European Delegation 2019) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 3 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 4' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FI-BP 45' PD 35' Mixed 31' IV-PSI 27' FdI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1928, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Valente, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u8	Mr President, fellow Senators, members of the Government, the Assembly today begins the examination of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 83 of 30 July 2020, which contains urgent provisions related to the expiry of the epidemiological emergency statement by Covid-19 deliberated on 31 January 2020. The measure also includes provisions on the renewal of the appointment of the directors of security information services. The decree-law, after first reading examination in the Chamber of Deputies, consists of four articles and an annex. Due to the extension until 15 October of the state of emergency, authorised by the Chambers by resolutions of 28 and 29 July 2020 and deliberated by the Council of Ministers on 29 July 2020, the need arose to extend the effectiveness of the provisions contained in Decree-Law 25 March 2020, No 19 and Decree-Law 16 May 2020, No 33, which respectively governed the application of measures to combat the spread of the epidemic and their gradual easing in relation to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. Specifically, Article 1, paragraph 1, extends until 15 October 2020 the power to adopt, with one or more decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, measures among those indicated in paragraph 2 of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, in order to counter the health risks from Covid-19. The reference to the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 31 January 2020 is also deleted. Paragraph 1-a, inserted during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, amends the letter l) of paragraph 2 of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, with the objective of excluding from the suspension of congresses those related to medical-scientific activities and continuous education in medicine. Paragraph 2, intervening on article 3, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No. 33 of 2020, extends to 15 October 2020 the applicability of the measures provided for by that provision. I recall that that decree-law (so-called reopening decree), also in continuity with the instruments provided by Decree-Law No. 19, marked the start of a new phase, helping to outline a new regulatory framework where differential measures are aimed primarily at specific areas of the territory on the basis of the evolution of epidemiological data. Paragraph 3 provides for the extension until 15 October of the terms listed in Annex 1, with the exception of those provided for in No 3 of the same Annex, for the recruitment of doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice, according to an amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and to No 32 concerning agile work in the private sector (which are extended, respectively, to 31 December 2021 and 14 September 2020), providing that the relevant provisions are implemented within the limits of the resources available authorised under applicable legislation. These measures are mainly related to health matters, as well as those of work, school and university, contained in emergency measures adopted in connection with the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19. Among the measures extended, I recall in particular those concerning the recruitment of residents; the assignment of individual fixed-term assignments to health professionals and health workers; the increase in the provision of beds in intensive care; the establishment of special units of care continuity; the fund for solidarity initiatives in favour of family members of health and social-health workers who have died because of the Covid-19; the use of agile work primarily for disabled employees or who have a disabled person in their family and for immunodepressed workers; the continuity of the governance of public research bodies during the period of emergency; the continuity of the training activities of universities and institutions of high artistic and musical training; the powers of the Special Commissioner for the implementation and coordination of health measures to contain and combat the health emergency; the experimentation and compassionate use of medicines with regard to patients affected by Covid-19; the acceleration of the execution of school building interventions. During the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, No 30-a has been added to the Annex, under which the measures provided for in Article 9 of Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020 (so-called relaunch decree) concerning the extension of a further 90 days of the therapeutic plans due in the period of the current epidemiological emergency, are extended from 31 July to 15 October 2020. The therapeutic plans concerned refer to specific pathologies which include aids and disposable and prosthetic devices. The extension is necessary in order to reduce the risk of infection with Covid, limiting the turnout in specialist clinics to obtain the renewal of the plans in question. In accordance with paragraph 4, it is further specified that the time limits provided for by legislative provisions other than those identified in the Annex, although related or related to the cessation of the state of emergency declared by resolution of the Council of Ministers of 31 January 2020, are not amended following the extension to 15 October of the state of emergency and their expiry remains referred to 31 July 2020. Paragraph 5 provides that, in the more than the adoption of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, pursuant to article 2, paragraph 1, of the decree-law n. 19 of 2020, to be adopted heard the Presidents of the Regions concerned in case the measures concern exclusively a Region or some Regions, or the President of the Conference of Regions and autonomous Provinces, in case they concern the entire national territory, and in any case for no more than ten days from the date of entry into force of the decree, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 July 2020 continues to apply. In this regard, it is recalled that on 7 August a new decree was issued by the President of the Council of Ministers to regulate the measures to be taken for the containment of contagion, effectively until 7 September, and that on 7 September a further decree was issued by the President of the Council of Ministers on this matter valid until 7 October next. Paragraph 6 provides that the renewal of the duties of the directors of security information services may be arranged for more than once with subsequent measures and for a maximum of four years. I would remind you that at present the appointment of directors for a maximum of four years can only be renewed once; the maximum duration, which therefore remains for four years for the first post, and a maximum overall of a further four years, is changed, while at the same time providing for the possibility that there may be more subsequent renewal measures rather than just one. The explanatory report of the decree shows that the provision introduces an element of flexibility to ensure the different situations and possible contexts, such as the current state of health emergency, the continuity and functionality of the guidance of intelligence equipment. The aim is to avoid possible prejudices in a particularly sensitive area such as the area of protection of national security. I add a quality of this type of rule: in all the functions of the State which must present a third party guarantee - I am thinking, for example, of the Presidency of the Republic or of the Supervisory Authorities - the duration of their mandates is always longer than that of the legislature, this guaranteeing the independence of these posts, exactly as we require of those who defend our security an independence from the possible influence of the majorities of which they can be expressed. In order to take account of these provisions, during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies the title of the decree-law under consideration has been supplemented. Article 1-a inserted during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies introduces a coordination provision, providing that the provisions of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 apply within the limits of their compatibility with the provisions of Decree-Law No 33 of 2020. In fact, the coordination of certain measures to limit the epidemic adopted pursuant to Decree-Law No. 19 with the measures provided for in Decree-Law No. 33, of more limited scope and scope, should be verified, provided that the measure extends to 15 October the applicability of the interventions provided for by both decrees. In this regard, it is recalled that Article 3, paragraph 1 of Decree-Law No. 19 provides that, in the more than the adoption of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers implementing the measures provided for in Article 2, paragraph 1, the Regions may only adopt further restrictive measures compared to those in force, while Article 1, paragraph 16 of Decree-Law No. 33 allows the Regions to introduce measures on the development of economic, productive and social activities both more restrictive and extensive than those in the state. Article 2, as amended by the Chamber, provides for the clause of invariance of the financial charges, providing that the implementation of this decree is provided within the limits of the resources available to current legislation and in any case without new or greater burdens for the public finances. Article 3 provides for the entry into force of the measure. In the course of the Commission's examination, no amendments were made. However, a fair agenda was unanimously approved in favour of fragile workers: Article 26 (2) of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, converted with amendments by Law No 27 of 24 April 2020, provided in fact until 31 July 2020 for civil and private employees recognized as seriously disabled, as well as for workers in conditions of risk resulting from immunodepression or outcomes from oncologic diseases or from the conduct of related life-saving therapies, the equalization of the period of absence from service to hospitalization. Since this provision has not been extended by the Decree-Law under consideration, due to the need to identify the appropriate financial cover, the Government undertakes to extend it, including retroactively, until the end of the epidemiological emergency. Finally, Mr President, one more political consideration on this decree, which has been followed over the last few weeks by lively, if not controversial, discussions on the desirability of extending the state of emergency. Even during the general discussion here in the Senate, it was discussed whether or not there were the conditions in fact to declare an extension. I believe that the evolution of epidemiological data and the global picture of the pandemic, with entire nations, when not entire continents, still struggling with such high numbers of contagion, makes clear today the opportunity to extend ways that allow a rapid and effective response, combining the perspective of obviously maximum flexibility to change epidemiological conditions, which is not only the ratio of this measure, but that in recent months has proved to be an effective instrument in the very difficult challenge against the Covid-19. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u9	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are once again in this House to debate and vote on a measure which presupposes the existence of the state of emergency. For my part there is a strong feeling of déjà vu, it seems to me to go back a few months; however, the state of emergency - we all know - is no longer existing. Attention, before anyone can object that I am joining the negationist club, I say that I look at the numbers that are reported in the newspapers: the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), which in recent months is proving to be a good supporter of this majority, wrote with great intellectual honesty for this part that the positives are again aligned with the numbers we had (I think, I'm going to remember) in March, but the admissions and serious cases are less than a tenth of those of that period. This means that if today an unsuspecting alien of our history descends on earth (allow me a joke, during this legislature everything happened and I believe that only the landing of aliens is missing) and observed these numbers today, he would have serious doubts about our mental health. However, we continue to insist on this issue, when prominent constitutionalists have made it clear that there is no need to maintain this state, also because the eventual re-emergence - God forbid - of the pandemic could in a few hours be faced with a new declaration of state of emergency. What worries me is that we will once again be called to vote on trust, to work for the conversion of a decree-law when this country needs more, for example to put to work urgently of the Commissions, possibly of the special committees open - those yes - to the greater competences of the country to reform the order. I wonder if this majority is not tired of being humiliated, of being reduced to being a letterhead; I wonder if it is perhaps better to have the courage to admit the failure of this political action and return to its work with dignity, rather than to continue on this path. Well, I wonder if this majority is aware of its failure. We all know that this majority awaits the arrival of funds from the recovery fund, but that money will behave like petrol paid into a laundry tank, because without urgent reforms we will not be able to spend those resources effectively, we will not be able to allow the country to restart. As we know, the reform of the civil process and of the criminal process is currently under consideration. We have a President-in-Office of the Council who is a substantialist. He teaches civil law, like me. Now, I can understand that a processivist - it is understandable - sees in the reform of the process the panacea of all evils; but those who know the substantive law know that the rite is at the service of the substance, and if the rules submitted to the process are confused, chaotic and contradictory, there is no reform that can improve the situation. But there is not only the problem of civil and criminal justice; there is also the problem of administrative justice, because administrative judges are struggling (and citizens with them) with a chaotic administrative system. When you need more than 70 permits - I'm going to memorize, so I'm definitely going to fail - to start a business, there's no funding, there's no recovery fund that can encourage the young (and young people our resources) to start a business. [[Applause.]] Be very careful: you are trading your survival in this Parliament for the future of our country. [[Applause.]] Have the courage to face reality. This House is composed of people of great competence; the mistake is to believe that the vulnus of the country resides in the functioning of Parliament. Parliament has an extraordinary competence; Parliament is an extraordinary resource, and I am really saying this by addressing all political forces. I, as a citizen who entered this House almost on a political fast, have had the opportunity to meet people of great political and professional experience. Is it not better to risk returning to life than to continue to feed, support, defend and guarantee the state of ordinary administration in which this majority is placed? Have courage, have courage, because today each of us must remember to carry on our shoulders the responsibility for the future of this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u11	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u12	Mr President, we are talking about extending the state of emergency. The only state of emergency this country has at this moment, in my opinion and in our opinion, is the permanence of this Government. [[Applause.]] Perhaps we should think a little bit more about this situation; it would be better if we focused on the point. It is the permanence of a government that has taken advantage of such a tragic moment, so difficult, to carry out actions of systematic and continuous force to impose, through the institution of decree-laws and the abuses of trust demanded of a Parliament completely exauthored, the complete gag of Parliament itself, which is the voice of the citizens. We are allowing - I say us, but I look across the hemicycle - the death of democracy softly, softly, slowly, almost without people noticing it; indeed, even with complicity, because we speak to the belly in a sense, simply because in this way citizens are reacting. There are citizens who think, with respect to the information that has been given, that today someone enters this Parliament and does what was done once with the decimation of the soldiers inside the armies that were losing: one soldier every ten was pointed at and you were said to stay out of it. This is the information that passes within our countries and our cities, when you hear people say "from tomorrow it will change everything" and "from tomorrow you will all be at home". They say that with drooling in their mouths, because the very bad communication and the very bad image that has been given, that of a useless Parliament, is a great responsibility for Parliament itself and for the holding of the democratic institution, but so much so. We will always and in every way try to turn the situation upside down and ensure that competence, merit and correct information come out of these classrooms. I have been told that there are too many Members who are debating unnecessary things. Of course, if there were even only ten Members of Parliament elected from evening to morning, without a minimum of preparation, commitment and competence, maybe even ten would be too many. [[Applause]] The Government has managed the pandemic emergency in a completely self-referential way, distorting the fundamental principles of the constitutional order and hierarchy of the sources of law, consolidating a practice that is in stark contrast to the principles enshrined in Article 70 of the Constitution, which gives Parliament the exercise of its legislative function. Who better than the parliamentarians, in fact, who each represent a part of the territory, can represent the voice of the country itself? Just think of Commissioner Arcuri and how he managed an emergency, for example on my territory, that Bergamo, one of those most affected, taking away the masks to the production companies of the territory, making them arrive in Rome and then not sending them back anymore, or how he is managing at this time the safety at school, which is in total chaos, with the great thought of the benches with the wheels and the new benches. [[Applause]] We who live the territory and are on the territory, when we open the local newspapers we read, for example, the cry of pain of provincial school leaders - which I still call providers - who say they had to empty the classes of new banks that they had because they were rectangular; they sent them square benches and now do not know where to put the other benches (which were still new) because they have no place in the warehouse and ask if anyone wants them. Well, that means wasting public money. This government is spending and wasting so much public money in useless actions that we cannot but denounce it: we buy new benches and meanwhile we do not stabilize the teachers, there are no support teachers and disabled children stay at home. Someone within this government should try to live in real life, should try to put themselves in the shoes of a mother of an autistic boy who had prepared himself on the first day of school with his backpack on his shoulders, ready to go out, arrives at school and tells him that he cannot go in because there is no support teacher and there is no educator assistant. Or, someone should put themselves in the shoes of those boys who are checked before entering school, with the distance and the benches for the "autocontri," but after they crowd and crowd inside the buses, because this government, which has the ideological stakes and the slices of salami on the eyes, does not want to make the conventions with private transport to increase the number of races and cause the kids to crowd or let them enter in three or four turns, however crowded. There's something profoundly wrong with it. This is a government that had already shown that it could not govern by ordinary laws; let alone by special laws and when I say "special laws" I evoke periods that are certainly not bright. [[Applause]] Therefore, be careful, because our main concern is the safeguarding of democracy that we really feel is in danger. We have always tried to explain, also on the issue of the referendum, that a surgical cut of only one of the three powers of the State that necessarily need balance in order to guarantee the rule of law endangers the preservation of democracy itself. In fact, when we go to cripple Parliament, which is the voice of the citizens, we make the Commission and the judiciary stronger. It is extremely dangerous to strengthen an executive who has already expelled Parliament. I am not long because the issues in the field and the poor management of the emergency we see them in all the newspapers: the economy is falling apart. Don't listen to the voices of entrepreneurs, don't listen to the voices of employers, you didn't want to introduce vouchers, you didn't want to create a white semester that would lift our businesses from tax and bureaucratic weight, which are employers and consequently protect workers. Without entrepreneurs, in fact, there are no workers. I have heard so many times that we are also welfare workers because we want to give funds and resources to businesses, productive activities, and traders. But this is not welfareism, but investment for the future. In fact, giving resources to businesses and commercial and productive activities, to those who produce, means making sure that a company, a shop or an activity does not close and, consequently, that workers continue to work and entrepreneurs, traders and anyone else can pay taxes to the Government. Assisting is something else. The government is acting as if the country was thirsty because the aqueduct does not work and instead of repairing the aqueduct gave each one a glass of water for a day: the next day everyone dies of thirst. I close as I began: the only state of emergency for the country is the permanence of this Government. We're gonna fight every last breath so you can go home and do something else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u13	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I am speaking about the amendment introduced by the decree to our examination of Law No 124 of 2007, relating to the Republic's Security Information System, in the part relating to the appointment of the director of the agency of our intelligence sector. A real force, a raid operated by the government by decree. For the League, in time of emergency Covid was understandable the necessity of an extension of the summits of the agencies in expiration in order to guarantee the continuity in the operational management of the section that, we know, especially in the periods between March and June has engaged - and much - women and men who work also on the front of the difficult finding of personal protective devices and sanitary equipment. For the League, I emphasize, it is absolutely clear that the responsibility of the Services lies at the head of the President of the Council of Ministers protempore, who, through his trusts, appoints the summits of the DIS and the internal agencies AISI and external AISE. Just as it is absolutely clear to us that the President of the Council of Ministers himself has the power to appoint the delegated authority, which the Prime Minister Conte has never resorted to and, according to the League, is wrong. [[Applause]] These powers, however, the President of the Council of Ministers must exercise them within a clear perimeter, a defined framework that is the law of reference governing the intelligence sector which, I stress, establishing a delicate balance of powers, is the result of months and months of shared parliamentary work, of close comparisons between the then forces of majority and opposition, which led to establish, for example, that the President of the Copasir is elected among the members of the Committee belonging to the opposition. And that is why - and our reasoning ignores the people who today are the leaders of the Agencies, to whom our esteem and thanks go for the work they are doing - the amendment made by Decree-Law No. 124 of 2007 is deeply wrong in the method and in the merit. [[Applause.]] Why is it wrong in the method? If it is true that the attempt to temporarily extend the prefect Parent to lead the AISI, through a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 15 June, is aborted for the remarks of the Court of Auditors, then to intervene on the primary rule it would have been appropriate to resort to a transitional rule - how many have we recorded in these months, for example on the summits of the Authorities? - and not through the decree of urgency directly amending Law No. 124 of 2007, without prior information to Parliament also through its articulations. On the other hand, we all remember that this decree on the extension of the Covid emergency had been informed beforehand of the contents - there was also a communication in this House with so much resolution - except for this small, particular but very heavy modification. Even the press release of Palazzo Chigi at the issuing of the decree did not mention it. Why is the amendment of Law No. 124 wrong about the substance? While the League is well aware that the renewal period can be up to four years, confirming the original orientation of the law, what we do not like at all and that we think absolutely inappropriate is that these renewals - I repeat, always within a maximum of four years - can take place for successive measures without specifying a limit number. This means that the President of the Council could renew the summits every six months, even every three months, even every month. You can all understand, ladies and gentlemen, that all this is not functional to the indispensable autonomy of the directors of the Agencies. What serenity can the director of a renewed Agency have for only six months or even for only three months? What planning and planning could it do, absolutely indispensable given the geopolitical scenarios, also in the matter of economy and energy, in continuous change? What credibility could the director of our external agency have, if renewed for a few months, in front of a foreign counterpart, such as the director of the Israeli Mossad, the US CIA, the British MI6, the German BND, the French DGSE or the Russian SVR? For this reason, the League considers it necessary to take action to change the rule. We consider it appropriate to fix a maximum number of renewals (two, at the most three) or, with a speculative reasoning, to fix a minimum duration of renewal in order to ensure an adequate time space of operation. For a desired parliamentary change - I should like to point out - of this rule on the appointment of the Chief Executive Officers - we read it yesterday from the agencies - also the members of the Copasir at the end of a hearing of Prime Minister Conte, during which some considerations were held and shared. The hope is that the change will soon intervene in a spirit of collaboration, absolutely indispensable in such a delicate, relevant and significant area for the country, such as the national security of the Republic. I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President, in order to say that the League, for the discussion of this measure in this House, has tabled a number of amendments on this subject, one which has also been deleted. If the Government renounced its announced confidence today, the League Group would be willing to withdraw all amendments except 1.24 (text 2) which, by fixing up to three subsequent renewal measures, would be useful to solve the problem. Otherwise, if the Government were to confirm its confidence in the measure, it would certainly be appreciated that the representative of the Executive present could intervene to ensure the willingness of the Government to converge on a forthcoming parliamentary proposal. I emphasize this: the retouching of the norm is absolutely indispensable, not only for the reasons I have said previously, but also to bring the right serenity within the sector, where competent women and men, who demonstrate high professionalism and a spirit of dedication to the institutions of the country, want exclusively to work in serenity and avoid that their sector is continuously subject to attention and exploitation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u16	Mr President, Senators, today we are called to vote on the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 83 of 2020, extending the state of emergency, due to the pandemic by Covid-19. We are actually called to confirm the choices, which we assumed at the beginning of the year, when we faced a new and difficult challenge, with which we had never had a chance to confront. The Government today asks us to continue to follow a clearly defined path, extending the exceptional measures until 15 October, which ensure tools for prevention and emergency management. Unfortunately, this emergency is still topical. The data that record increases in contagion must not frighten us, but they cannot catch us unprepared. We were among the first in Europe to face the pandemic and we were the first to structure in a very short time a strategy that has borne fruit. We cannot think of wasting a job well done, because the data speak clearly and the international community itself recognizes it: the government has acted with timing and has taken the necessary measures to deal with the new difficulties. This reassures us, because it demonstrates consistency and competence in emergency management. The numbers that constantly update us on the contagions, in the world and in Italy, are not as reassuring and call us to become aware that the emergency is anything but over. In this scenario, the extension of the state of emergency and the follow-up measures is indispensable for tackling the pandemic. Ensuring, through the extension, the continuity of the contrast action means having the tools not to leave to the virus margins of diffusion, isolating the outbreaks at the origin and monitoring the contagions. This means, therefore, ensuring that hospitals have sufficient staff and resources to support sudden peak requests for assistance. What we are continuing today, until 15 October, are all the measures that have allowed us to get out of the critical situation in which we were in the first months of the year and that, I am convinced, will allow us to manage the coming months. Mr President, it is important to remember that what we are facing is a challenge that involves the whole world, in a serious and dangerous way. We cannot run the risk of underestimating this danger, nor can we share too permissive attitudes, in contrast to the dynamics of absolute attention that this subtle virus imposes, nor can we tolerate or endorse attitudes of mere alarmism. We cannot fail to confirm the choice of responsibility and awareness of the danger and I am convinced, in this sense, that it is essential to confirm the powers entrusted temporarily to mayors and local health authorities, to be able to limit the movement of people who are infected, to prohibit their removal and to impose a quarantine period on those who have come into contact with infected persons. They are choices that must be taken in a short time and with responsibility, within the framework of adequacy and proportionality. The comprehensive list of these instruments, referred to in the rules, relates to those measures which, at worst, have made a difference and which still make a difference, when there is a need to isolate an outbreak, to block its infection and to monitor its development. These are measures that other countries are now forced to take, with months of delay and catastrophic effects on the health of their citizens. The numbers do not lie: if the increase still contained in Italy holds us all with the breath suspended, the data reported in France, Great Britain or Belgium leave no room for chatter. The number of deaths in the United States cannot fail to sound like a warning not to lower the guard. We need to look reality in the face, without alarmism, but with reason and perspective. You cannot close your eyes to the danger, in fact, you must focus and increase the knowledge of the enemy to be defeated. We must have confidence in the institutions, which have been able to guide the country in the most tragic moments and guarantee them the tools to act to the need. We have confidence in the President-in-Office of the Council and the Government, who have demonstrated readiness and competence to choose measures that are adequately proportionate to the risks and dangers associated with the spread of the virus. We trust an executive who has been able to exploit technology to use it to serve the organizational needs of the health emergency, allowing, for example, to hold meetings of collegial bodies in videoconference, but also to map the contagions and structure a Covid-19 alert system with the Immuni app. We are confident because we have seen the commitment of the Italians, who have understood that the protection of everyone involves the effort of everyone. The primary objective must remain to ensure adequate and homogeneous levels of care, so that everyone has access to care and that we never - I say never again - have to choose who we can treat again. The rules that we are extending today are indispensable for this purpose. I conclude by stressing that converting Decree-Law No. 83 into law and extending the emergency Covid-19 means maintaining a method built also on the mistakes of the past, but which has undoubtedly proved to be functional and successful: it is the choice of a scientific approach to a first of all health problem, the iteration that allows improvement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u17	Senator Riccardi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear in everyone's eyes that the situation we are experiencing is extremely complex from every point of view, and as a Lega Group we recognise it and we have always recognised it. However, it is also clear to us that the interventions that the Government is persistently putting on the ground to deal with the difficulties continue to be inappropriate and in too many cases, as in this case, do not appear to be those indicated in our Constitutional Charter. Mr President, with my speech today, I would like to leave it to my previous colleagues and those who will follow the analytical examination of the contents of the decree that we are going to vote on, with its problems and its shadow areas, focusing mainly on how this decree and the consequent extension of the state of emergency are affecting the role that Parliament is sadly forced to play in this parliamentary term. To this end, I would like to make myself and share the thoughts and concepts expressed in a recent article by an Italian jurist and academic, as well as judge emeritus of the Constitutional Court, Professor Sabino Cassese. After two and a half years of parliamentary term and a few days after the vote on the referendum on the cut of Members, who for many months held a stand, it is useful to draw up a first budget and ask ourselves whether, given the hand, we are really respecting the role of Parliament or whether we should stop and work to restore the right dignity to the institution of which we all honour to be a member. As we know, Parliament is, or should be, before anything else, a legislative body, yet the numbers tell us that in this first part of the legislature only a quarter of the laws are of parliamentary initiative and that the number of decree-laws is very high (well 63), for a third of which the Government has felt the need to put trust in the conversion phase, that same confidence yesterday harshly criticized and today punctually and repeatedly used. In the last six months this trend or, better, the bad habit of using the exclusive government decrees or even the decrees of the President of the Council and the consequent votes of confidence, have been considerably accentuated and it is also in the light of what the extension of the state of emergency, which essentially grants to the Government and the President of the Council full powers, limiting the role of Parliament to that of simple letterhead, cannot and must not find the favors of those who, like us, care about the respect of the Constitution and the organs of the Republic. While it is true that at a time of blatant difficulty it is essential that there is speed in the adoption of laws, it is regrettable that the Government has not been able to reap the full benefits and benefits it has been able to enjoy so far. The data tell us that the average times of approval of parliamentary laws are halved when we talk about those of government initiative and they explain to us in a irrefutable way how, especially in the last period, the role of Parliament has necessarily had to change and how the same has demonstrated an inexhaustible transformative ability, as defined precisely by the "Report on legislation" of 2020. The thousands of amendments that have gone to substantially modify the various decree-laws that have followed in recent months give the clear idea of a Parliament that is becoming less independent and increasingly towed by the Government, that does not legislate, but amends, and that condemns itself to an interstitial role, with the unsatisfactory result of so many laws and little Parliament, very little Parliament. In spite of what might be expected, Parliament for its part does not seem to have shown a lack of desire or attitude to work; indeed, far from it. The data tell us of a very large number of draft laws presented, of questions, of questions, of many cognitive investigations initiated or carried out and of great diligence also in the control activities. There is therefore, in Parliament's work, a clear and unjustified problem of incidence and effectiveness. Another aspect which is sadly known to us and which the aforementioned report on legislation highlights is the phenomenon of alternating monocameralism: one of the two Chambers is in fact always forced to approve, essentially with closed eyes, the text transmitted on the other side in order to avoid the decadence of the act. We believe it is time to put an end to these unfair practices, if that is what your extension of the state of emergency is for. If this is your idea of democracy and respect for the institutions, forgive us, but you will always find us on the other side, always and in any case, in defence of Italy, its values, its citizens and the democratic centrality of Parliament. [[Applause]] The continued use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (this new and apparently indispensable fashion to regulate) and the lightness with which this Government and this majority demonstrate to play with the decrees, repealing the norms of other decree-laws in the phase of conversion, including extensions in block of the terms of delegation in expiration or neglecting all the derogations to the legislation in force with extension of the emergency, are the emblem of a sad, black and mortifying page that you are giving to our Parliament. [[Applause]] Although we do not share your modus operandi at all, if this leads to results probably, for the sake of our country, our criticisms would be less pressing. But unfortunately, your way of acting, apart from not being in line with the dictates of our institutions, leads only to chaos for nothing organized; and to make the costs are, as always, Italian citizens, who find themselves with fragmentary and incomprehensible laws and never really decisive. As we all know - although some probably pretend not to remember this - all this mass of rules requires further application precepts and to date the Government finds itself with about 300 implementing decrees to be issued; we do not realize - or perhaps yes - that those who think to act in this way convinced to shorten the times in reality do nothing but produce distortions and constraints, which make the lives of citizens even more difficult, the only true victims of the work of this Government. As I conclude, Mr President, I would like to say to you that, when you look at the decree-law under discussion today, detailed mention - as my colleague Senator Arrigoni has already done - would deserve to be made of what happened to the House of Members on the subject of extending the summits of the DIS, AISE and AISI. Much has been said and much more would be interesting to be able to say, but time is tyrant and on this I just point out that the Government and the majority that supports it have become protagonists of yet another very bad figure, forgetting that in the past the opacity of the management of these state apparatuses has given rise to several dubious episodes that still drag today. Then there is at least one further inexplicable lack in the decree under consideration, which concerns the need to confer protection on so-called fragile workers, a category that Article 26, paragraph 2, of the Italian Decree-Law on care had protected, establishing that the absence from work for persons with disabilities and suffering from serious pathologies was equated to hospitalization. This protection was then extended by the subsequent decree relaunched until 31 July 2020, but then disappeared in the subsequent measures and was not included among the other extensions planned until 15 October 2020. Today thousands of fragile workers have been faced with the choice of returning to service, with all the risks of the case, or staying at home using vacation or illness by medical certificate, with the risk of exceeding the period of behaviour, which allows the employer to proceed with the dismissal. If there was a provision that should actually be extended with the decree-law in comment it was just that. From here we had to start with the protection of those most in need, and on this point nothing has been done inexplicably, except to make preparations in the Commission with an agenda. The government, however, to be honest, has done one thing, the same thing it has always done. He first called for the emergency when it came to demanding full powers, and then he completely forgot when it was time to protect the weakest, when it was time to protect Italian citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u20	Mr President, we have opposed this extension of the state of emergency, not because we do not believe that precautions should be maintained, which must be observed to prevent the spread of the virus, which is undoubtedly far less deadly than it was this spring. We believe that we must continue with the security measures, which must be reasoned and discussed, seriously and openly, with the experts and with the scientific community. We cannot, in fact, in order to give an idea of safety, maintain strict measures in relation to what perhaps the World Health Organization itself suggests, such as a reduction in quarantine, which I know that Mr Sileri has proposed here. We have opposed this, because in recent months the state of emergency has been used by the Government for purposes that have nothing to do with the epidemic and, however, in widely incorrect ways, starting with the use of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers in place of what the Constitution provides can be used in cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency. Since these cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency, which determine the use of the decree-law, were extensively abused in the past, it was considered that the system was not strong enough. This is to the face of the Constitution and the face of the constituent Fathers, which were understood as an emergency, having just come out of a war that had made hundreds of thousands of deaths (a war between Italians, also in Italy, with foreign occupation, misery and cities destroyed by bombings). Well, they, who knew what the emergency was, said that, in an emergency, the decree-law was used. Then comes the Conte Government, which knows much more than those who have lived the Second World War and fought for freedom, and decides that it proceeds by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers over which the President of the Republic cannot and does not need to affix his authorization, as for the decree-laws, which is not necessarily announced to the Chambers and is not examined by Parliament, as it must be done for the decree-law. This is very serious. I must say that, as Forza Italia and as a centre-right, we are proud of the fact that, at the time of the emergency, when these decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council began to flood, we did not denounce this serious problem because of a sense of responsibility. In a situation where there were hundreds of deaths a day, we did not want to give the impression of disuniting ourselves on a point that would have been difficult to perceive, especially in information monopolized by the President of the Council, which appeared during the hours of maximum listening to make communications that he should have made in Parliament, not choosing the time of maximum listening with the advice of Casalino (who, rightly, is paid much more than a Member of Parliament and, therefore, has a much more important role). [[Applause]] We did not have any controversy at the time, but now, with the situation changing, we must denounce this fact: the Constitution has been violated on the issue of urgency under the pretext of urgency. The urgency was there, but the Constitution says that, in case of urgency, a decree-law is approved. No, it is not: the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers decreed that the President of the Republic and Parliament should be removed. It is precisely the model of the authoritarian act. Of course, then came the decree-laws, with a clear violation, even here, of what the Constitutional Court said. The Constitutional Court has already declared the rules illegal, among other things after years (i.e. the so-called Fini-Giovanardi drug law), because they had been mixed into decree-laws. In this case the President of the Republic even certified it with a letter. The Constitution has also been violated from the point of view of the alienity of matter. There the letter of the President of the Republic referred to one subject, but there are many other subjects. I refer, for example, to the provision contained in the so-called decree relaunching thanks to which, by pure chance, the father of the partner of the President of the Council has found himself, from one day to the next, from being under charge for the offence of peculate (and, therefore, risking up to ten years and six months in prison, with a minimum of four years and six months) to being faced with the probability of having to make a transaction and pulling out some money. [[Applause]] For what? Because for five years he had forgotten (these are things that happen) to pay the tourist tax that he received from the customers of the beautiful hotel he manages. It is not his money, but the City of Rome, because the tax goes to the City and certainly not to the hotelier, who has forgotten it. This is an offence of peculate, which has been remedied with a nice paragraph inserted in the so-called relaunch decree, which had to be adopted to respond to the emergency Covid, but which evidently responded to a lot more emergency. We still have no explanation from the President-in-Office of the Council. Many of us have asked questions, including the first one by Senator Ferro, but there has been no answer, to the face of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which are constitutionally important. I can think of something now. When the decree-law (which is signed by the President of the Count Council and another Minister) was passed, did the President of the Council leave the Chamber of the Council of Ministers, or did he approve it? I remember that this person is called the father-in-law of the President of the Council, but not formally because the President of the Council is not married to his daughter. However, I recall that the so-called Cirinna law completely equates marriage with civil union and that it is for the judge to determine whether there is a situation of coexistence, communion and union. Therefore, there is virtually kinship. The emergency was also used for desks. Mr Gallone spoke about the functional problem of the benches, which I do not repeat because we cannot say better than you said. There is, however, a problem with money. Since democracy and the Constitution are being cut in order to save money, we are now talking about real money and savings. [[Applause]] On 12 August, the completion of the procedures for the supply of 2,400,000 benches was announced, the usefulness of which has already been illustrated: they are probably of no use at all; they are thrown away new benches (and we do not know how to do so); probably these new benches are not adequate. However, we are talking about costs. The only contract that has come out shows that 247.78 euros have been paid each, when on the Internet you find identical to no more than 102 euros each, but you have to look for them well because otherwise you can easily find those from 70 or 80 euros each and, if you buy more than 5.000, the price drops even to less than 30 euros each. Even today, with questions filed and thirty-five days after the signing of these contracts, we do not know how much they have been paid and by whom they have been ordered. [[Applause]] The only contract that came out was clearly referring to a ghost society, formed to profit on benches probably purchased from the country of reference of the foreign policy of this Government, that is, the People's Republic of China, which is also referred to as a model of democracy and maybe it is introduced into our information and security system. [[Applause]] As Senator Arrigoni said, then, there was also a prediction that shouts revenge, that is the extension of the information services, which puts in the hands of the President of the Council the daily threat, compared to the information services, of being able to remove its heads. In other words, these must obey and do the interests of the Government, which unfortunately - we have seen it in the two examples I mentioned - does not do the interests of the country, but the interests of someone, otherwise they are removed. It is indeed a situation worthy of an authoritarian regime. [[Applause]] That is why we are fighting to defend the role of Parliament, because Parliament is monitoring the laws to be adopted and it must adopt them openly and not with confidence, as will be done today, despite the fact that there are only 29 amendments. [[Applause]] Trust forces you to approve everything together and then no one is responsible. You have voted for the pardon of the President-in-Office's father-in-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u21	Senator Malan, I must invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u22	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). You allowed Arcuri to buy benches from whoever he wants, from ghost companies. Indeed, however, you have included everything in a package that also contained useful measures and therefore you have no responsibility. The country then blames politics, but there is no politics, there are people, there are parties, everyone has their responsibilities and this government and this majority are taking on huge and very serious. We will fight to defend democracy and Parliament to the last breath. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u23	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretaries, I am sorry that Minister Hope is not here today: I would have liked to address him directly to tell him that every time he deals with Parliament he does so with apparent availability and affability, but in reality reading his behaviour you can see the arrogance and contempt for any contribution that may come from this Parliament, so much so that he has always rejected any solution and rejected any action, even if of common sense, proposed by the minority. You know who reminds me? The Marquis of the Grillo, when with his snob smile posing as compared to the people considered inferior, and I spare you the quote. This measure extending the state of emergency to 15 October 2020 clearly demonstrates your arrogant attitude and contempt for the less privileged of you. Do you really think Italians still believe you need to extend the state of emergency? You have been moving forward to states of emergency since 31 January 2020. It's a shame. [[Applause]] You hope to increase Covid's cases, so you can move forward with decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and decrees-laws until 2023. But the game is now evident to everyone. You are now trained to violate constitutionally guaranteed rights, as you have done with lockdown throughout the national territory, by expelling Parliament from its prerogatives. For months you have been preventing the representatives of the people from exercising their duties, which - I repeat - are constitutionally guaranteed, hoping that someone will listen to me. You are hiding the truth, that there is no state of emergency today, but only your manifest inability. Shame on you. [[Applause]] You can tell the world that you won the last election, but the reality is that your hemorrhaging consent is unstoppable. Where is your moral honesty? The Italians don't want you anymore, but you continue to impose your presence sadically and meanwhile - I say this above all to the MPs of the Movimento 5 Star Group - waste your vows by slowly being cannibalized by the PD, far more outcast than you are incapable. What a sad epilogue yours! You want to see the Italians with the hat in their hands waiting for your bonuses, don't you? But you're wrong. Italians have much more dignity than you think. The Italians want a government that is up to a new pact with the State, which provides for the reduction of the tax wedge for all, to help companies at last without running away from abroad for tax pressure; a pact to prevent VAT matches from becoming extinct; a pact for workers that you will not be able to keep forever in the Cassa Integrazione, for pensioners who do not arrive at the end of the month. You must be ashamed. After eight months you have a pandemic plan? What kind of health care do you have? Where do you place the individual in your vision of health care? In all the parceled provisions you put on the field to set up your friends you have forgotten people. Is it too much to ask for your contribution to a health care that puts the patient at the center? You're here to ask for an extension of the state of emergency, but why didn't you work on an organic and structured plan instead? You realize the disaster you're doing at the school, with a minister who after seven months managed to start schools without teachers, but with wheelchairs that allow kids to run through the hallways and play autoscontri [[Applause]] ? The Minister boasts of having two degrees, but I wonder where she was in these months instead of working: maybe she was busy doing some executive contests? [[Applause]] Perhaps it has been farsighted for itself, certainly, since you will go home, but who will pay for the harm done to our children? You have to pay! Instead of coming to this House to ask for extensions, you must tell this Parliament and the Italians what future you imagine for our children. Is it difficult to think of regionalized competitions to give answers to students, families to teachers on the basis of real needs? Why don't you put the student in the center? We urgently need a system of evaluation of education and training, including teacher education. Students are trained for the world of work if teachers are of quality, with measurable skills; instead you are destroying research and researchers, forcing them to flee abroad. This is incalculable damage, which goes beyond good taste. You guys are so shameless. What leaves me forbidden is the deafening silence of the President of the Republic: where is the guarantor of the institutions and of the Constitution? Where is the President after all these months? If it is true what Minister Hope says, we are the country that currently has the lowest hospitalization rates, then I wonder why we are under impunity a measure to prolong the state of emergency. Did the President of the Republic lose his word? We need your urgent intervention. [[Applause]] As you come to the conclusion, you will also have the complacency of the other institutions, but the certainty is that you do not have the people with you and when this farce is over, you will go home and the Centre right back to rule in the interests of our fellow citizens and not the lobby you are desperately trying to inculcate in the rooms of our institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u25	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that the measure that we are called upon to convert today should be assessed for what it is, for its technical nature, which objectively has political content, too, there would be no more. However, the climate of devastating political conflict, which continues today on a measure of this nature, seems incomprehensible and excessive. Talking about this as a measure that undermines the democratic order of our country appears to be a polemic that is now addictive as well as instrumental: it is tantalizing because it has been going on for too many months now, as if the choices of the Government had been dictated by a political will that would go beyond what has actually happened, that is from a pandemic that has produced and continues to produce - as we have seen - contagions and deaths in the world. In recent weeks we have seen a re-emergence of the virus, with data - just yesterday published by the World Health Organization - that show that the two million infections have been reached and there are European nations that show a significant increase in infections. I am thinking of France and Spain, to remain in the nearest European countries. I do not think there has been an excess from the government's point of view: I think there has been a complicated situation. We at Italia Viva were also the most critical in some moments compared to the extension of the state of emergency. I remember that in the Senate we talked about the fact that we still had to make some assessments before reaching an excessively long extension. But, in the light of what is happening, it seems to me that it was right to have thought of a measure of this nature, which, among other things, has purely technical content. It is essentially a matter of providing the government with the tools to be able to issue decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers or ordinances of the Ministry of Health in order to put in place the possible measures listed in Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, that is, the one that constituted the legal framework within which to place the DPCM and the ordinances of the Ministry of Health. In that decree-law are indicated all possible fields of intervention, which are those that have characterized the last months of life, the closures, the interruption of the activity of the schools and everything else. The measure today at our examination coordinates, as provided for with an article, the two key decrees-laws of this phase - the aforementioned decree-law n. 19, which is essentially that of the closures, and Decree-law n. 33, which has sanctioned the second phase, therefore the reopening of the country - and coordinates them above all from the point of view of the balance of the powers between the State and the Regions, one of the problems of these months. It states that it is possible for the regions to issue, as provided for in Decree-Law No 19, measures not only more restrictive but also more open. I am thinking of the case of discotheques, although this may open up another front of controversy and political considerations, but it has been so. It restores balance to the relationship between the State and the Regions. Moreover, the decree-law has nothing scandalous. It seems, in fact, that we are talking about a measure of subversive aims. In fact, the text extends time limits for rules - those included in Annex 1 - which will allow this country to have more time than some important areas of health emergency governance. In that Annex there are in fact extensions relating to the possibility of hiring staff in the field of medicine or health or health care personnel with fixed-term assignments; rules for the increase of intensive therapies; the extension of the time limits for the purchases by healthcare companies of individual prevention devices; the extension to the Commissioner for purchasing operations. In essence, there are important extensions. I am also thinking of smart working for those in conditions of disability, an element introduced in the examination of the Chamber, as well as the extension to ninety days of therapeutic plans, which represent an important support for families, for those in difficulty and maybe had to go to the health district to renew the therapeutic plans, which will now be extended, precisely, for ninety days. In the measure under consideration, in essence, there are technical aspects that must allow our country to continue to face the stage of difficulty we are in. There is nothing subversive; there is no will on the part of the Government to assume powers that it should not have, and I believe that this is before everyone's eyes. Even in the last few days the political debate culminated in the elections has somehow highlighted this aspect: the Italians do not think that the Government tries to limit their democratic rights and the opposition instead sees everything right and how it should be seen. It seems to me that the political framework has also expressed this. We believe that this is a measure that must be dismissed even with some speed, because - if we remember correctly - the extension of the state of emergency was communicated to this branch of Parliament on 28 July; the time has passed and the measure must see its conversion in order to close this further phase as well. It is important to look ahead and we are also convinced that this is a country in difficulty from the economic point of view. A range of measures has also been put in place from the point of view of not insignificant economic and financial commitment. In this respect, we are also comparing ourselves with the August decree which is being examined by the Budget Commission. The measure has a technical matrix and must allow the government to have the tools to quickly put in place what it needs to face the situation. It highlights the fact that the country has however addressed the emergency coronavirus, net of all the controversy that they want to raise and will continue to be raised in a better way than many other European countries. It seems to me that the data of these days show that our restart was not characterized by the "freetan all." There have been behaviors that have probably led to the development of some outbreaks in the country, but there is a very strong and important responsibility of the citizens, still present in everyday life. There is an attention from the Government that allows to maintain the level of infection to a sustainable number, also taking into account the high level of swabs that are carried out throughout the territory, almost one hundred thousand per day. We also try to find a minimum of commonality and common spirit on a subject like this, because by now the game of those who have to do the opposition for everything that the government does on a topic like that in question is becoming tantalizing. Everyone has their own role and respect for the fact that there is a democratic dialectic in Parliament - there would be no other - but it is also true that the level of complexity of the Covid problem from the world point of view is such that we should try to remove the debate from the continuous political controversy and see objectively the things we talk about and treat daily in these classrooms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u27	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Ministers and Undersecretaries present, the first thing I have to say about everything that is being discussed is that health is not a joke. Beyond opposition and majority, the right to health is enshrined in our Constitution and is the first thing we must strive for. And this is so true that today in this measure, in addition to extending the state of emergency until 15 October, we do nothing but coordinate a series of laws and decrees issued in the last months in front of a dramatic pandemic never lived in our territory and worldwide; a pandemic that anyway had to be kept under control and it has been done with measures that have managed in part to keep together the whole health sector, that has experienced a truly dramatic situation. We are discussing a decree-law which, among other things, will end its effectiveness on 15 October - so we are not talking about who knows when - and which has already been determined: from 31 January, the date on which the emergency was declared, to 15 October. There are decrees and provisions that have been put in place that will see their natural expiry on October 15: this is being talked about and nothing else. Among other things - as you can see - the virus has not disappeared, it is still among us, and we have already seen it. However, we can still allow ourselves to talk about it and decide how to deal with and improve certain situations, because we are monitoring it. Look only at the opening of schools: beyond all the critical issues that may have emerged, even the opening of schools gave us a great result because the virus was kept under control. Polemics have been raised on the benches but, to date, we have not had any major emergencies. This is the most important thing. We return to head one: health is the most important thing to consider. In other countries, every day we see an increase in the trend of contagions, in contrast to what is happening to us. In this regard, although I am so sorry - for example - for French citizens, I have to say that, despite the government's appearance as far away from such positions, we are going back to thinking that citizens arriving in our country from areas at risk must be tamponed. This is a further check to contain infections. We do not talk about the countries beyond the Atlantic Ocean that are really finding themselves in embarrassing situations since, unfortunately, no action has been taken, unlike what our country has done, with all the polemics related to the lack of freedom and the masks; polemics that, unfortunately, are the subject of excessive attention also media, considering the fact that there are many very good citizens - we must say this - that they behave civilly even in the most normal situations of everyday life, put the mask, respect the distances required and maintain the precautions necessary to avoid the contagion. We know that the measures taken have been effective because our situation is positive compared to that of other countries. I believe that all the measures that we have brought to Parliament's attention - as my fellow Members have said very well before - how we have given the opportunity to hire residents, to have added new beds in intensive therapies, to have implemented the so-called USCAs, that is, the special units of care continuity in the territories, have really been successful. So we are talking about something that has already happened, that we have already put into practice and that has given the effects that we can all be happy with today. The measure at our examination, therefore, will not go undoing who knows what. It is a measure that will conclude, with its proper effectiveness, what has been put in place in recent months. Also the taking charge of the deliberations by the Regions has produced in some of them positive effects, while in other negative effects (the effect of the reopening of the discotheques in Sardinia I believe is under the eyes of all), and however it has given the possibility to the territories to interact directly with regulations that gave a national input and that then could be improved, even if often, unfortunately, they have been worse. All the controversy in recent months has not had a significant legislative effect but also on the balance between majorities and minorities. We have heard the controversy, we have seen people in the streets protesting against the use of masks, the so-called negationists. I have taken part in a number of initiatives - as you know - in the area of health related to people with immunodepression problems and who must be kept very far from infection. I have to say that people, when they protest against a rule that protects health, going against public opinion, should reflect - as with the issue of vaccines - and think about those who cannot choose and are obliged to a certain condition. They must not protest against the use of the mask just because they want to be free, because wearing it represents a form of respect for those who cannot decide and must protect themselves in order to protect their health. If you can protect those people thanks to the attention of everyone else, I believe that this can really represent the great civic sense of the population. The most dangerous thing you can do right now is to lower your guard and say that, by virtue of freedom, you can do what you want. No: I repeat that health comes first. I believe that an extension of the time of the emergency - I repeat, effectively until 15 October - is important, also because we will have to resume our normal life. I have to say that we are coming to almost normal: if we think that we all wear the mask every day and wash our hands frequently, a change has already happened. I really have to say "thank you" to the whole section of the school, but above all to the children and children, who are really behaving diligently, giving a very important example. So, we did very well to reopen the schools, albeit with all the criticalities. We must also try to understand that it was essential to do so, because our country, through school and education, can take great steps, because the future comes from those children who today go to school in a diligent way. I believe that this is really an important step that we must take, on which - I repeat - there is no second thought, because there is no need to discuss anything with regard to the measure. After all, the measures that will lose their effectiveness are slowly disappearing. In addition to the many important things that I do not mention, because they have been mentioned both by the rapporteur and by other speakers, the possibility of holding conferences for doctors and health professionals was also considered in the presence - it is one of the points discussed in the following passages. In fact, I think it is very important - it is one of the many needs we have - to update professionals in health care, because since the first months of the outbreak of the epidemic have changed a lot and, therefore, the updating of the health staff (the doctors first, but also nurses and others) is important. As you have seen, there has also been a change in the scientific community. Many important issues have been taken into account and this measure - in my opinion - must be approved, because we are now moving towards the deadline of 15 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by my colleagues in the majority, who are trying to reduce the scope of this measure, so I believe that we should retrace it in this House. The President of the Count Council came to the Chambers on 28 and 29 July to announce that he would request an extension of the state of emergency. I would also like to remind you that you had thought to arrive at the end of the year, but then, for a series of protests that broke out, you spoke of October 31 and then plan on October 15, which is the date that is being considered today. When the President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, came to the Senate, the center-right presented a motion and I believe that the logic of the diversity of positions between the sides should be reread by looking at that motion. It is not a litany - I am sorry that Mr Grimani is not present, but please tell him, as is Mr Boldrini - the fact that there is a problem of limiting freedoms, nor is it an instrumental opposition. The centre-right had made a specific request - and some colleagues of the League have reminded us in their speeches - that Parliament should be brought with it a national epidemiological surveillance plan through which both the present and the continuation of the disease could be monitored. In July we could not imagine what happened then in August: I think of the contagions that broke out during the holidays, the question of discos and everything else. This is not an emergency, as it is - for example - a calamitous event, so the state of emergency is resolved because the event occurred. This is something different, because in this case there is an urgent need. Our thinking and the substantial difference was very well specified by Senator Malan in his speech and therefore I am not going back to the subject. The fact, however, is that there is a story when we talk about the end of October 15. If the government had at least presented a clear plan on epidemiological surveillance and had reported to Parliament on the state of the art of the situation of vaccines and on how health care has prepared itself, in case of a return of the acute phase of the epidemic, then it would make sense this report based on the dates that foresee the state of emergency until a certain moment. This does not make sense, however, because it is mostly from television programs that we learn the situation regarding vaccines or the preparation of the health system. I come to the point: the opposition will not raise the issue of limiting fundamental freedoms through the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, and therefore without the legitimacy of Parliament, because it has fun and thinks it is an argument to use. Instead, it poses this problem, which concerns several articles of the Constitution (i.e. 13, 16, 17, 18 and 19) and the fundamental freedoms of citizens, for the simple reason that these freedoms have been compressed, because our health system was not ready to deal with the number of patients and the emergency. We kept a country closed, indeed we were closed, because there was no health system able to withstand that shock wave. Today we have to ask ourselves whether we are able to withstand the shock wave, if it returns, in such a way as not to limit the fundamental freedoms of citizens. When we ask for the epidemiological plan; when we ask for information on the issue of influenza vaccines; when we ask for the state of the art with regard to health structures, the question behind it is as follows: with the money invested, the measures taken and the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, even in spite of the Constitution, are we ready, if the famous second, third or fourth wave arrives, be it Covid's or something else, not to close people in the house and get back a health system that holds up? If this question is not answered, it means that the state of emergency, as requested until 15 October - in the hope that President Conte will not return to request an extension until 31 December - is not justified in relation to the fundamental freedoms of citizens. And, therefore, constitutionalists are right when they tell us that we are outside the Constitution, because the limitations of fundamental freedoms must be based not on fear of an event, but on the law, taking into account that the event has occurred. I would add that, so that the event does not happen again and then we do not meet with hospitals and resuscitation departments full, there must not be what has been called in occasion of other events and in other cases a manslaughter contest of the State, that is, the manslaughter contest of a Government that - in our opinion - has not prepared everything that was necessary. We have had warnings from this point of view: we have seen it for school in six months - but until the last moment it was not known - for transport, but we can no longer see it for health care. Having understood that the pandemic is no longer an abstract hypothesis of school, but it is something that can still affect - whether it is caused by this or by other viruses - the basic point is that we must be ready to deal with the situation. It is therefore not the state of emergency that is the key issue, but whether we have ready hospitals. The President of the Council must report on this. That's what we need to know. [[Applause]] , particularly in view of the fact that the question of trust will most likely be raised on this measure. Beyond the fact that, where the question of trust is raised, we will vote against it, I believe that trust should at least reflect those who sit on the benches of the majority, because it means proceeding with a closed box, without knowing exactly what the road is and, above all, what has been built over the last few months in order to stop the hospitals being filled. It is the task of the Government and the State, in fact, to no longer have in the hospitals conditions such as to have to close all the people inside the house. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u31	Senator Modena, I will start with your final consideration. But where is it written and what is the reason why the Government raises the question of trust? We are dealing with an issue which can easily be dealt with in an ordinary way, through a vote in Parliament, without there being - I say this specifically - the strong and arrogant imposition of the issue of trust. Why continue with this mechanism which is essentially expelling Parliament, namely the ability of citizens to react to the Government? It is not written anywhere in the Constitution, nor is there a legal obligation to say that the Government should impose trust on such situations. A decree has been adopted which is in force because it has the force of law, but the fact that the conversion in Parliament must pass with confidence or through a vote is not written anywhere at all. It is clear that a method has been established - and I am horrified to say so - and, when these practices begin to take root, we must be careful because we do not know where we are going. I also take this view to say that, when the government came to the Chamber to report that it would make this kind of path - then the decree and so on - it argued that the extension of the state of emergency was necessary to allow those who had to work to give answers to it with fast systems and mechanisms, that they did not knead with bureaucracy and everything else. Ex post we can say that you have told a great lie because it is objective that, as it started, the school year everything is except tidy, managed with the right times and anticipating problems. The issues have been predictable for months and have been neglected for months, so the school year has opened up in the most chaotic and total situation. Then I ask once again: "Why do you come and say things and then do other things?" There may of course be different opinions: you are not able to govern, with constant approximation on all acts, while you set up committees and take experts to have an opportunity. President Conte, among other things, I want to say that we do not go on television once a day, except then disappear and go underwater because now there is the school problem, so it is only Minister Azzolina's and you want to wash your hands. This does not in fact give the sense of those who represent the Government as a whole, as should be the President of the Council of Ministers, who has disappeared, has gone underwater. So, everything is calculated tactically: going to television shows to try to get the maximum consensus when people are afraid and instead disappear when there is chaos, causing the situation to slip towards the Ministers, because maybe it becomes less unpopular the President of the Council of Ministers, reserving - who knows - a political space for the future. This is not good and it is very serious that this is happening in a situation of danger and crisis for the health of citizens, because we are talking about this. After that, there are considerations to be made here, Mr President. As my colleagues before me have already said, what the hell does the extension of the Services Summit have to do with rules that should cover the protection of citizens' health? It is clear, also with this measure, that the President of the Council of Ministers is using this epidemic artificially to build a system of self-referential power. I say this because it remains in the acts and because it remains in the minutes: a system of self-referential power is being built and it is doing so in the worst possible way, even using mechanisms such as the decree of urgency. [[Applause]] The constraints of freedom are there, it's objective, it's written in here. Practically that of 31 December will also come - rest assured - because as long as Covid is there is hope; it seems like a pun, but in the reality of the government we have understood that unfortunately this is anything but a phrase made. The committees of experts, all the reports of the Technical and Scientific Committee, the General States, etc.: you have given the impression that you have all the solutions at your fingertips. It is not acceptable that we have arrived at a decree that puts the country in a state of emergency still with the chaos in the school. Mr President, in recent days I have received reports from school workers and also from parents; it can happen in any municipality. I went to see in the schools of my municipality, in the high schools of Tradate, after reading a report that sent me a parent, who wrote: But are these the masks you chose for our boys? But did anyone try them? They're so big to my daughter. She can't even see. They cover her eyes. How do these guys keep them for six hours? Plus, they're open underneath. It's like they don't have it. But how do you protect our children? I don't understand. I don't want to send my kids to school. Let's go see. Mr President, I went to the high schools in Tradate and found these packages that I am showing; these are the masks sent to the schools, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u32	Senator Candiani, you know they can't expose themselves. You know that.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u33	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am exonerated, but this is an act of... President. I don't want to expel her, because we're interested in her intervention. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, you are preventing me from making known to Parliament what the government is doing in our schools. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u34	No, not at all. You know that's not the case, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u35	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, please have at least the meaning of the institution. We are in Parliament; you must be on the side of Parliament and not of the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u36	Senator Candiani, you don't lack the arguments and so I call you to the sense of the institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u37	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this is a subject: we are talking about health. Why don't Deputy Minister Sileri put this on? Why don't the Minister of Education put it on? Why do they send her to schools instead? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u38	Very well, you can continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u39	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Why do you now intervene by taking away from me the video communication? Why do you do that, Mr. President? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u40	I haven't taken them off at all...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u41	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). You're doing this right now and you know exactly how the system works. I am raising a question that is in the interests of the citizens and the government must answer for it, because these same masks are the ones on which President De Luca did the show in March and April, when he said that these were the clothes to clean the benches and not masks. And today the government is recycling them in schools. [[Applause]] We must be serious about this, Minister. Why don't you put them in, which is part of the government? Why don't the Minister of Education put them on? Why do you send them to school students instead? And I would add more: the deception that is written on here, Minister. Here it says: "Surgical mask type 1" Below it is written small, with words that can't be read except with the magnifying glass: The type 1 masks are not intended for use by healthcare professionals in the operating room or other medical activities with similar requirements. Surgical mask! So, Mr President, if this is not a subject worthy of entering Parliament, what are we doing here? [[Applause]] This is what's happening in our schools. This is what the government had told us that it would not happen: approximation and, even, making one thing pass for another. I'm very worried. And we have every reason to be concerned, Minister. This is not a normal situation and, if we are in a state of emergency, you have put a person called Arcuri to solve these problems. This is what Arcuri is doing. That is what must not happen, and you must respond to this in Parliament and to the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u42	Senator Candiani, thank you for the institutional dialectic we have managed to maintain.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u43	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u44	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 31 May the head of San Raffaele in Milan, Alberto Zangrillo, said: The Covid-19 no longer exists. Someone terrorizes the country. Four months later, another 315,000 new positives are discovered every day in the world and more than 1,500 in Italy. On August 21, the leader of the Matteo Salvini League said: The Covid-19 is now manageable without alarmism. It is absurd to talk about emergency and lack of emergency. This is terrorism to maintain power. These are the same words that we have just heard in this House. Terrorism is what the League has been trying to do here for a few years now, scaring Italians to gather consensus, inventing fears that do not have any official data. As far as the maintenance of power is concerned, the Italians with this electoral round have been clear: the government must move forward. And they communicated it in a democratic way: other than coup d'état. For some months now, part of politics, information and public opinion has been repeating that the Covid-19 is no longer a danger, that the epidemic has passed away. In March Italy had been hit by a TIR called coronavirus and all of us feared for our future; according to the opponents of the Government, today it is no longer so and the danger has escaped. In March we all tolerated the state of emergency precisely because of that reality; today many people consider it an imposition worthy of a totalitarian state. We need to stop being unscientific and short-memory. In March, there were fewer than 100,000 new daily cases in the world of Covid-19; today they are more than three times as many. Coronavirus is killing victims everywhere. The infected have exceeded 31 million and the dead are about to cross the psychological threshold of one million: a million victims that would have been largely avoidable if the governments of many countries had taken seriously the fight against the epidemic, if they had had the courage that the Italian government had had. Our Government has taken extraordinary measures of necessity and urgency - as laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution - with force of law, without penalising the central role of Parliament. It has put in place an effective instrument in relation to a situation in constant change, which required continuous updates on rules and actions to be taken; rules which some judges restrictive and which, on the other hand, are to protect health. So many, too many politicians in this House accuse the Government of destroying the economy: short-sighted views and little attention to the overall picture. The forecasts a few months ago showed GDP falling by 12%. Thanks to the government's restrictive behaviour, today those same national and international bodies say that the wealth produced by the country will decrease by 9%. Perhaps at the end of the year the Italian economy will have had an even greater rebound than the current 3%. The strict rules imposed by the Government thanks to the existence of the state of emergency allow Italy to have a better economic recovery than other European countries. We got out before, better and above all at less risk than a second wave. Think of the psychological and economic backlash that UK entrepreneurs are experiencing right now. And what about those in Spain, France, part of Germany, Belgium and Holland? Then there is the health issue. Those who have a shortsighted view of things judge health issues as issues that only concern the health of people, not realizing that a healthy society from the medical point of view is even more prosperous from the economic point of view. Every person who goes to the hospital to treat himself is a big cost to society. Keeping Covid away from our fellow citizens means protecting the health and not only, as it also means protecting the accounts of this country. The coronavirus, today as never before, is circulating all over the world, kneeling, one after the other, dozens of countries. The Covid has shown us that a coronavirus epidemic knows no boundaries and is able to move in less than twenty-four hours from one continent to another and to spread within a small territory with a surprising speed, which unfortunately we have lived on the skin of many of us. Experience has taught us that the speed of response by the authorities is one of the key elements in reducing contagion. Experience has also taught us that the best antidote to Covid, waiting for the cure, remains the social distance, which is guaranteed by a series of possible rules only thanks to the existence of the state of emergency. When that stops, those rules will lapse. The rules for the management of the Covid in schools are only possible thanks to the existence of the state of emergency; the limitation of spectators in live shows is possible only thanks to the existence of the state of emergency. The smart working used in a massive way, the extraordinary integration fund to protect the employees of small companies, the prohibition of dismissal, the extensions to the conclusion of contracts of self employment for medical and nursing staff: they are all possible only thanks to the existence of the state of emergency. It is these days yet another praise from the World Health Organization to the Italian Government, referred to as the most virtuous of the Executives in Europe and in the democratic world. In France daily contagions have again exceeded 10,000, in Germany 2,000, in the United Kingdom 4,000, in Belgium and the Netherlands, which have a population much lower than ours, almost 2,000; Israel is back in lockdown. True, the state of emergency is not acceptable under normal conditions. True, the state of emergency is to be hoped that it will end as soon as possible and remain in our memories, hoping that its spectre will no longer return to the future. But these are not normal times: this is the time of the pandemic, this is the time to try to prevent the tsunami from once again overwhelming Italy, as it seems to be doing in our neighbouring countries. This is why the state of emergency is necessary and does not represent a danger, except for those who feed on fear and reckless fatalism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u45	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in her reply. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust in the approval without amendments, nor any additional articles of the single article of draft law No 1928, which converted Decree-Law No 83 of 30 July 2020 into the text proposed by the Commission, identical to that approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u47	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 83, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore suspend the sitting pending the determinations of the Conference of Leaders, which is immediately convened in the Pannini Room, with regard to the organisation of the debate on trust. (The sitting was suspended at 12 noon and resumed at 12.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u48	The Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law containing urgent measures related to the expiry of the epidemiological emergency statement by Covid-19 deliberated on 31 January 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thirty minutes were allocated for the discussion on confidence, which will begin at 3.30 p.m., on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. They will follow the explanations of vote and call it, which will roughly be around 17.15 or 17.20. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.33 p.m. and resumed at 3.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u49	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u50	Mr President, since mid-July we have had the opportunity to point out that, in our view, there was no clear reason to prolong the state of emergency, since, contrary to the beginning of the pandemic, knowledge and skills had developed to ensure a different take-up of the possible epidemic, so as to ensure that patients should not, at least in the vast majority of cases, even "approach" intensive therapies. Of course, you had other reasons. One for all, the Commissioner's extension and even that did not feel the need. That's it! What you needed, a real anti-pandemic plan, you haven't tried yet. The last call could have been - and should have been - the measure under discussion, but there is no trace of it. If someone is picky, instead, he can go and see what I said on February 2nd in Chigi when he was about to enter the pandemic: our propositions and recommendations, incidents on the decree in conversion, that could have remedy at least some of the serious shortcomings and inconsistencies, of which the country is aware and that you continue to ignore, not even considering, by blows of confidence, to adopt the appropriate selective measures of government of the risk of what is a chronic-inflammatory and infectious co-pandemic at the same time, combining the necessity of normalization of the time of delivery of the performance and interventions for pathologies other than the Covid-19 (whose risk of incidence and incremental mortality, if not adequately taken care of with promptness and appropriateness, is amplified by their freezing during the lockdown) with emerging measures of protection of people and in the most at risk places, on which you must absolutely intervene: elderly, sick and chronic in hospitals and in health care residencies helps very little. On the other hand, it would be worth testing, in addition to ordinary patients, at least 1.5 million patients per month at greater risk when accessing hospitalization, care and care facilities. Even to this, altogether exceptionally, one could ascribed the need to maintain the emergency state until mid-October. We've lost love to keep talking in the wind, it's time for you to consider interrupting a government experience that, in addition to manifest incompetence, even in regional elections has shown that you're not a majority. [[Applause]] , but you support yourself on an "unstable" continuity and you have never given enough time to listen to suggestions and proposals that, in hindsight, it is too easy to define appropriate. You have succeeded in the "masterpiece" of sinking the economy and you are working pervicaciously to revive the epidemic: maybe it is too much! [[Applause]] We fear that the lengthening of your stay in the Government will make it difficult for anyone to remedy what you are putting into practice: the real tragedy is that the consequences of this management will cost dearly and will be paid for in the next thirty years. You have burned an opportunity to project the country from bureaucratic, fiscal, administrative and infrastructural backwardness to the future. An opportunity represented by the huge resources that have been put in place following the pandemic: as many as 100 billion euros of budgetary deviation that should have "educated to responsibility" first of all the State in maintaining its commitments, which instead continues not to honour its obligations, place that it has debts to suppliers for more than 50 billion euros and there is no trace of a "straccio" of codicillo that previews its fulfillment. If you want a further example to all those who have already been made to you, there is the refund of VAT, instances that, with the excuse of lockdown and smart working, are not even taken into consideration: also this not only does not help, but lowers the real economy because, at a time of so high tension, putting liquidity back into circulation would be the "first commandment". Mr President, I shall start with the conclusions. It is therefore quite clear that we are faced with a condition in which you do not forget to ask businesses and citizens to fulfil their obligations, but you do not yet seem to have the time to rebalance the relationship between the State and citizens, according to the principle of "I do what I say," but you do what you have to do. We are witnessing the demand for tax compliance and the imposition of restrictions on individual behaviour, but the State continues to fail to fulfil its duties, unable to turn investment in health care into an opportunity for growth, with a health strategy with an economic value of retraining and genuine prevention, which can only be achieved by avoiding waste, which continues to be not among the priorities of this Government. There seems to be enough! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u51	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u54	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking here, of course, first of all to motivate the clear and clear no of the Brothers of Italy Group to this decree-law and to trust the Government, but also to bring the reasons that have prompted the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic - in which, by delegation of this Assembly, I represent, like other colleagues, the Senate of the Republic and not a political force - to issue yesterday, at the end of the hearing of the President of the Council on this matter, a public note, in which I urge Parliament to amend the legislation introduced - I add, on a personal basis, with the support of the darkness - which changes and upsets the balance between the powers and which represents an institutional vulnus of extreme gravity, which can represent a dangerous precedent for anyone who will then rule this country. I am referring to and referring to what was introduced in the decree-law at night and secretly, to the point that - the only case in this legislature and, I believe, in the history of the Republic - it saw the issue of trust in the first branch of Parliament, in order to prevent Parliament itself from examining the amendments, and the imposition of a second, in the other branch, in order to prevent Parliament always being able to examine the measure. It had never happened: even in this parliamentary term it was allowed that, at least in one branch of Parliament, the amendments should be examined. On the other hand, a change to the title has been introduced, which I hope my colleagues and especially those who listen, that is to say the Italian citizens, can assess in their fullness: it is the specification that the decree-law is not urgent for the state of emergency, but at the same time - as you heard, ladies and gentlemen - the discipline of the renewal of the positions of management of organs of the information system for the security of the Republic. This decree-law, that is, amends and upsets the balance between the powers of the State, modifying the criteria of appointment of the directors of the secret services, with an act of empire of the Government that violates the method and the spirit with which the founding law was carried out, n. 124 of 2007. I am referring to the spirit of sharing to which the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic refers in a unanimous statement, calling on Parliament to re-establish it in this matter, because, in the field of the law on secret services, it is of extraordinary importance and I am surprised that Members who have entered this House under the banner of transparency do not realize what we are talking about. That this has been done unbeknownst to Parliament, with a violation, which I believe is also constitutionally to be sanctioned, of the spirit of loyal cooperation between the institutional bodies, the Government and Parliament, as evidenced by the acts that have taken place in this House. On 28 July, the President-in-Office of the Council, explaining the objectives and content of the decree-law in question, told us nothing about his intention to amend the legislation on the appointment of the top secret services. The resolutions adopted in this House and in the House of Deputies did not give such an indication to the Government, which had asked for an indication from Parliament - which gave it to it - but failed to fulfil the commitments made in Parliament. On the night of Wednesday 28 July, the government included legislation that represents an institutional vulnus in the method and in the substance. You know what the government did? He introduced the legislation, but he did not acknowledge it either in the press release that illustrates the contents of the decree-law and that you find on the website of Palazzo Chigi: there is not a line on what was introduced at night without Parliament's knowledge after the vote of the latter; the country learns only from the Official Journal when some journalists notice it. This is a particularly important vulnus, which must be sewn up in the measure under consideration or at least in the following. I believe that the government must solemnly make its commitment in this House and accept that Parliament can intervene to change the rules. On the subject, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the legislation has intervened - they tell us - because we were in lockdown and we needed to extend the no longer renewable mandate of the director of AISI; if this is true, I ask the government as never a few weeks before the director of the Agency information and external security (AISE), which was - yes - really engaged during the lockdown to find the masks and breathers in the world that we needed, is appointed president of Leonardo (we are a few weeks before, in May, in the middle of the lockdown); in that case there was no emergency to extend the top secret services, on the contrary it was replaced in advance with another director. How come this, which was not so urgent - so as to renew in advance the director of AISE, who went to take over the office of President of Leonardo - a few weeks later, when instead the lockdown is now reduced, it becomes urgent and urgent for the director of AISI? The nominations are the responsibility of the Government and no one wants to have any influence on this; it is his job and responsibility, indeed of the President of the Council, to appoint and revoke; it is his full powers of direction on the secret services. That is precisely why, because it is its full powers - both appointing, withdrawing and directing - with regard to the secret services, it is Parliament that legislates, not the one with the powers, all the more so with the arbitrariness of a decree-law imposed with confidence. In all democracies, the balance of power tells us that the greater the power of the President of the Council and the President of the Republic, in this case of appointment, revocation and direction on the secret services, the wider the control of Parliament and the Parliamentary Committee for the security of the Republic, which has always legislated on this matter in a spirit of sharing. In the method, it is an institutional vulnus which constitutes a dangerous precedent. On the substance, the measure amends the arrangements for renewal and allows a plurality of renewals. Up to this moment, according to the founding law, the Chiefs of the Services are appointed with a mandate of a maximum of four years renewable only once; in the history, that is in the practice of this Republic, until the years of the Renzi Government, all the Presidents of the Council have given a mandate full of four years never renewed, because they are sufficient and all have considered them so; they had opted for a mandate full of four years, never renewed. Renzi changes the practice, in fact maintains the four-year ceiling and establishes a mandate of two, then renewed by another two; so to date, we have always had a four-year term, even when the possibility of renewal has been used (two plus two). The measure under consideration, on the other hand, states that in the second phase there may be countless renewals; so it happens that the President of the Council, who already has the extraordinary powers of direction, appointment and revocation on the Services, can also make appointments of six months or six days and can renew them every six days or every six months, thereby violating a constitutional principle such that any mandate in the public administration must be given with sufficient time to be exercised independently and responsibly. This reasonable time does not exist and it could happen that, being renewable innumerable times, it can be renewed six months, then another six and still as many, transforming the directors of the Agency in fact as waiters of the Presidency of the Council, damaging the balance of powers. We are talking about power over secret services, that is, those who act with functional guarantees to guarantee institutions, democracy, freedom, sovereignty and national security. In this field, every word is important and every rule is decisive. The method is even more important than merit. In this case, there is an institutional vulnus on the method, but also a wound on the substance, because in this way we turn the directors of the Services into precarious, which depend only on figures who respond to the President of the Council. It is a balance of powers that the law had clearly defined: it cannot be overturned by a decree-law, in the night, without Parliament's knowledge and with a double vote of confidence, which does not allow us to decide on the substance. I say this not as a representative of the Brothers of Italy, but as a member of the Italian Senate and democracy: we cannot grant it to anyone, not even this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u57	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this morning we are discussing the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 83 of July 2020, which consists of only three articles and an annex. It is essentially, as we all know, the extension until 15 October of the state of emergency decided by the Government on 31 January following the outbreak by Coronavirus, therefore the extension of the effectiveness of the provisions of the previous decree-laws, especially the decree-laws no. 19 and 33 of 2020. That is what we are talking about, and that is the framework for action. These regulations have regulated the application of measures to combat the epidemic: Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 was very focused on contrast and limitations; Decree-Law No 33 continued with a gradual relaxation of containment measures, in relation to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. In addition, the Chamber has been enriched by a standard of coordination between the aforementioned decrees-laws, also to measure and better calibrate, because of the territorial epidemiological evolution, the relationship between the State and the Regions. So, we are moving into a regulatory framework of primary rank. We all know that Italy Viva was among the first majority political forces to have called for a greater protagonism of Parliament to make decisions with rules of primary rank, and this is happening. I would remind everyone that on 28 July the President of the Count Council, coming to the Senate, explicitly said that the successive decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers would be issued only on the basis of the principles of adequacy, proportionality and precaution. That day we voted on a resolution such that we must define with primary rule any measures to limit fundamental freedoms and measures to combat the epidemic, in order to overcome the constitutional remarks, must be not only limited in time, but also proportionate to the evolution of the epidemic. Looks to me like we're moving in here. I would like to mention just a few of the rules that we are extending: the recruitment of residents, the increase in the number of places in intensive care and special care continuity units (USCA), the recruitment of general medical doctors, solidarity initiatives in favour of the family members of doctors, the facilitation of the purchase of protective equipment, and extraordinary measures for the production of masks. On this point, I would like to say that we must also reflect on what is happening in the Italian system, and sometimes also talk about positive issues. Well, in the production of masks a very important conversion is taking place as far as machinery is concerned: large Italian industrial groups are producing machinery to manufacture masks, which - as I recall - were no longer produced in the West. This is an extremely positive fact, because the Italy system, already before this pandemic, when no one ever thought that it had to produce machinery to make masks, was world leader in the production of machinery. These are very important realities that we should all be proud of, like Italy. There is one issue that I particularly care about, but many opposition colleagues have also raised it: we are committing ourselves in the next decree-law to extend that article 26 of the Italian cure which equated to hospitalization the absence from the work of workers with serious disabilities, immunodepressed, with oncologic diseases or who need life-saving therapies, which are very exposed to contagion, or rather to the very serious consequences that could have, if infected. This rule expired on 31 July: we will try, in the next measure of conversion of the decree-law August, to extend it; perhaps, where it is not possible, we would like to foresee for fragile workers the application of agile forms of work or other protections, but we must do so. Unfortunately we are not yet in ordinary management, because the world is in extraordinary conditions and only by keeping the guard high and remaining in a controlled emergency we will be able to avoid falling back in conditions of extreme urgency. Of course, there is no rule that keeps, except to call for self-control, the civic sense and the prudence of our fellow citizens, but this has been widely demonstrated during the lockdown period. Now there is respect for the simple rules to which we are all accustomed: mask, washing hands and distance; simple rules to win a great battle. This is a temporal extension of the emergency, but qualitatively - we all know - it is very different from March, April and May, when the decision was to be limited, closed and controlled, because it has a lighter intensity. Unfortunately, we all know how the countries around us, such as France and Great Britain, and also a state like Israel, which are the three most infected. Italy in this condition is better placed than others, but we have learned that a small virus, invisible to the human eye, can highlight all human fragility and we must therefore be very careful and prudent. From now on, on 15 October, I think that Parliament must make every effort to think about how to continue in the state of emergency and to calibrate the rules that lead us to a controlled emergency. We've made a habit of this, but let's stop and think: we're handling a controlled emergency and try to get back to normal. There have been two important innovations this month: the opening of schools and the vote on Sunday and Monday, days when so many of our fellow citizens and citizens went to the polls and voted. This was a great demonstration of democracy and of the Italian people's affection for democratic participation, despite the epidemic. As for the school, I think we all have to thank the school directors, the principals and the teachers, who are doing a huge job of bringing the children, the girls and the boys back to school. Yesterday a teacher and mother told me that school is everything. I think we should try not to split up on this matter. I have heard so much controversy in this House: if there are things that do not work, we will correct them as parliamentarians, together with the Government, and above all we must put a great deal of effort into school building and ensure that our schools are put in place. On the first day of school I went to an important institute in Rome, the high school Virgilio, and there too there are problems of school building and setting up, despite the immense effort of the principal and the director, who did summer jobs. I think we need to help the principals and the whole school community to fix schools, because sometimes you can't even open a window to air a class. So we need to be close to all the families who are facing this delicate moment. I conclude by saying that Italy is acting very positively on the issue of tracing. We need to do much more about territorial medicine. We need to keep school and territory together, we need to use European resources, and next week we will be addressing the recovery fund guidelines. Humanity is called to a great test. I believe that we must all live up to this task, to what has happened at this historic stage. For these reasons, the Italia Viva Group will vote in favour of confidence in the measure at our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u60	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today the Assembly is discussing the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 83 of 2020, adopted by the Government in relation to the expiry of the declaration of the state of emergency and its extension until 15 October 2020. I believe that the evolution of epidemiological data tells us that the pandemic nightmare is not behind us. The virus circulates with a high level of contagion and, as scientists and experts have explained, it could create the risk of a second wave. The end of lockdown measures has inevitably led in recent months to an increase in the number of infections that seem to be kept under control for now. The measures of testing, isolation and tracing are proving their validity and Italy is, among the Western countries, an example for what concerns the prevention and care of Covid. We said that when the lockdown ended: with the phase of coexistence with the virus what we have set up and prepared in the black months of spring now must be useful exactly for this. What we have learned in those months must commit ourselves not to lower our guard so as not to fall back into a new dramatic phase. It is evident, in fact, that the precautionary principle and the cautious and careful containment of the contagion represent in the first place the right measure and necessary to guarantee our health but they are also, in the second place, the main instrument that our country possesses in order to make our economy restart to the best and in safety without exposing us to potential, probable but painful setbacks in the future. This is an absolute necessity for Italy. We have seen the effects on the economy and we cannot afford to disperse the efforts that have been put in place to date. Moreover, the European and world framework of the pandemic, with entire nations, when not entire continents, still struggling with very high numbers of contagion, make it clear that it is opportune to extend ways that allow a rapid and effective response, with a view to maximum flexibility, to the change of epidemiological conditions, which is precisely the ratio that motivates this measure that renews the instruments with which Italy has contrasted effectively, in recent months, the difficult challenge. There is a growing alarm in Europe: countries such as France, Germany, Spain and Great Britain are struggling with an impressive recovery of the coronavirus, to the point of recommending the adoption of emergency measures and even mini lockdowns. Half of France is red zone. Fear returns to Britain. In Spain today there have been 241 deaths and 11,000 infections. In Italy we have seen for weeks the slow and progressive increase of asymptomatic positives, a resumption of hospitalizations and the number of deceased. There are outbreaks widespread in the country and the average age of the infected is increasing and is now about forty-one years old. This means that there is obviously intrafamily transmission, that is, the virus passes from the younger to the older ones. This explains a certain increase, slow but gradual, in hospitalizations in Lombardy, Lazio, Campania: a significant trend in the last few weeks of contagion. The theme remains therefore that of prevention, raising the level of attention, of applying all codified rules of personal and collective security, according to the requirements of the anti-Covid protocols. For these reasons, the need to extend the effectiveness of the provisions of Decree-Laws Nos 19 and 33 of 2020 by means of a primary legislative act has arisen. Today, however, a common and additional reflection is also required, and I say this for the good of our country: too many times it has been heard shouting against the State and against the contentious measures of the virus, which would have strangled individual and business freedoms for a simple madness or even for a plan of control by the State. Screaming and miserably wrecked polemics: without preventive and contentious measures the virus still exists, it is still dangerous, still scary and can trigger a new wave of contagions, with all the consequences that can result. We cannot counter economic reasoning to the issue of health security management, also because we have seen that in other countries these choices have produced negative results. In this sense, the reopening of schools in safety and the start of educational activities have been a fundamental event for the recovery of the social and democratic life of the country. With open schools, one of the most important institutions of the Republic starts again, the place of knowledge, education and the relationship between generations. Let me say that it is not good for this objective that the school has ended up setting itself up as the perfect target in recent weeks, thus opening the side to heavy and unbearable exploitations. If it prevails, as we ask, a management participated at all levels, from that ministerial to that territorial school, even the difficulties that will arise will be overcome. The challenges for the future, for an overall strategy of greater value, remain to be addressed, starting with the relaunching of a fair and universalist public health service, which represents an indispensable social achievement for citizens, with targeted investments in hospitals, for staff and for research. Not only is a universalist system strongly governed by the public, but also a substantial reorientation towards public health and primary care. We've got a lot of busy months ahead of us. We have some concerns, because the most favourable period for containment is coming to an end. The arrival of autumn and the resumption of the most socializing activities can put us in a more difficult condition. These are the concerns, but it is not necessary to ride fears and alarmisms, nor to deny the need to be cautious, to avoid risks and above all to avoid and avert what we have already experienced: this is the task of the State, this is the task of the institutions all. I therefore believe that overall the extensions provided by the decree-law in conversion related, as already mentioned, to the extension of the state of emergency are necessary in order to ensure that the country is ready to face a possible new peak of contagions. We will therefore vote in favour of this measure, because we have a duty to combine fundamental rights: education, safety and health. We must ensure the recovery of economic activities and the ecological conversion of our country, returning to be competitive, making solid that employment growth that we are seeing and making the best use of the potential of the recovery fund. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u63	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the conversion of Decree-Law No 83 of 2020, in a spirit of full sharing of the philosophy that inspired the measure under consideration and in general the action against the pandemic, which has been produced in our country since the end of January, when the state of emergency was declared, with the first resolution of the Council of Ministers, until today. I very much thank my colleagues who have felt the need to stigmatize the practice of alarmism, catastrophism and the irresponsible ride of fears. I believe that this practice is wrong, like the one that represents the other side of the problem present in our country, characterized by a debate polluted by fate: the underestimating of danger. In fact, there is a subtle, but evident, thread linking negationism to catastrophism and we often see that the same political forces do not fail either of them, but are, every other day, close or inclined to pamper the negationists or the prophets of misfortunes (which fortunately are not realized) and the prophets of incompetence, inability and failures of the Government (which have never occurred since 31 January to today). I think that an approach based on balance, weighting, flexibility and rigour is a fair approach today, as it has been in the past, and I also think that the debate on the usefulness of extending the state of emergency has often been driven by a biased spirit of controversy and some free disputes. Of course the situation today is less serious than the months of March and April, but we cannot say that the dangers have disappeared. There are still many risks that we need to take into account and we still need a great deal of caution, which is reflected in the need to equip ourselves with a decision-making apparatus, which can also follow non-ordinary ways, precisely as a state of emergency. This is the only reason why an extension is proposed and an extension has been made, with the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 29 July, "covered" by the decree-law issued on 30 July last, then the following day. I do not even share the criticism that has been directed to the majority and the government for the method that has been followed during this emergency. I believe that this has been a correct method and that there has never been any desire to disregard and bypass Parliament. At a certain point we saw, in the conversion of a decree-law, the opportunity to put in black and white the need for the Government to come with punctuality to report the results of its action and its intentions to the Chambers. From that moment on this has happened and will continue to take place, allowing us to enrich the debate that takes place between us, at the summits of our institutions, and to engage in a confrontation between the majority and the minority and between the Government and Parliament, which certainly gave important results, when it was wanted to practice it without bias and without sectarianism. It also seems to me that there has been evidence that we have succeeded, as a country, thanks to the sense of responsibility of citizens, families and businesses (for example, thanks to the great dedication to the work of the community of teachers and school leaders of the country), to overcome effectively, without trauma and without displacement and without any of those disasters and situations of chaos that we have seen for days and days forecast in the press on television. The start of the school year, certainly not free from problems and difficulties (but I do not remember, even beyond the pandemic, a school year not marked by difficulties and deficiencies), started, with the ability by the school system as a whole to guarantee good service to families and children and safety conditions certainly suitable. The situation is set to improve in the coming weeks. I believe that we must improve what is still not going as we would like, but we must also recognise that we have worked very hard, in a difficult time, during the summer, with many deadlines that pressed political decision-makers and with school leaders put under pressure by a succession of controversy, protests and concerns, which are not really the best to work in safety. The same seems to me to have happened in connection with the organization of the elections: how many have we read of forecasts that are not black, but very black? It was said that the exercise of a fundamental right would be compromised, that we would compromise the citizens' ability to democratically express their ideas, that we would not be able to guarantee an orderly and secure flow to the seats, that the end of the world would happen. It has happened that the turnout has been one of the highest in recent times in this round of regional elections. We voted in two days and voted in a quiet and orderly manner, as must be the case in a large country, with institutions perfectly capable of meeting the expectations of citizens and fulfilling the duties proper to those who are called to make democracy work. I think that these things should be taken into account and I think that we should continue to work with this serenity and this industriousness. Finally, I believe that, in the course of an explanation of vote in favour of a measure of this nature, it is appropriate to make a strong appeal to all those who hold political positions so that absolutely no cooperation can be made and that there is no wink at the advocates of negationism. In that way, in fact, the credibility of our institutions and our political system is greatly damaged. Among other things, it is difficult to explain that in the parliamentary committees in deliberating, as is the case in the Commission that I have the honour to chair and as we have decided today, laws are passed for white shirts and health workers, who have been the first line in the fight against the virus, and for the victims of the Covid-19, and at the same time for the regional elections are presented, linked to some presidential candidates, lists containing negationists of the virus, who say that in Italy there is the health dictatorship and that, besides that, it would also serve the Italexit. [[Applause]] You have to agree with yourself. I say this without wanting to make any controversy, otherwise I would make names, surnames and lists and I do not want to do it; I believe that this must be scientifically avoided, because they send very wrong signals to the citizens and weakens the front of an overall struggle to the pandemic that must see us united as a country and determined to give the best, as Italy and as Italians. I think that the data of these days, which show that we are able, much more than all the other major European democracies, to keep under control the return of the contagion, which we knew would be among us after the summer, urge us to continue on this path, with seriousness and with a constructive spirit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u66	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we will not vote, as a group, in favour of this measure and, in view of the words I have heard from my colleagues in the majority, I would like to make some assessments. The first question is as follows: why are we particularly annoyed - I say this clearly in political terms - by the fact that the question of trust has also been raised on this measure? We are because it was born, immediately after the end of the so-called lockdown, a kind of promise - then re-negotiated in fact - of collaboration and in any case of attention to the demands and proposals that the opposition carried out. We have therefore kept to the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, but also of the majority forces, and to the test of the facts, beyond all the questions of trust that have been put on measures that are worth not knowing how many budgetary manoeuvres, at least on the extension of the state of emergency we would have expected to be able to have a debate; contingency, for goodness sake, with the times they thought necessary, but at least based on the part relating to the amendments. It is obvious to us, but for the citizens a little less, because they may not know the issues relating to parliamentary regulations and the way in which legislation is concerned: to put the question of trust in operational translation means that the individual Member can no longer discuss his amendment or his agenda. It is above all from this debate, when the measures are not so comprehensive or complex from an economic and financial point of view, that we can actually make a contribution, because otherwise we do not understand how the majority forces, the Government and the President of the Council can receive a contribution from the opposition. It seems to us something that shows that there are actually some theatres: first Count says he calls and then doesn't call, says he wants to open up to the opposition proposals, as long as you do everything together, then you can't actually come to the head of anything. I hope, indeed, as a warning, that this set does not repeat itself on the question of recovery fund, because up to now - I did a check this morning and I would like to stress this, because it is an important issue - I have seen simply the appearance of colored pages in blue, with lines that would be an act, where figures are not indicated even as an indication. On the other hand, I have seen figures circulated in the newspapers, with reference to certain sectors. I say this with great frankness: let's understand that the so-called contribution can be given, but it can be given when at least we have some fairly elastic guidelines that are not supported by a precise orientation. Therefore, the current question of trust is worse than the others, because of the context within which it was composed, it was born and grew, especially because it was born from a first "collaborative" will. Do you remember when we left the lockdown? It was said that the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers would no longer be an act of empire of the President of the Council, but would pass everything from Parliament, which could see and improve this stuff. In reality this is impossible, for the very simple reason that the question of trust is also raised on the conversion of this decree-law. The first trust has been placed - as you will remember - in the House, which makes me think that this majority is not so extraordinarily solid. I do not forget that in the first confidence in the House there was that ballet relating precisely to the things that Mr Urso remembered, that is to say, to the question of the extension of the top secret services. So, I would say that the situation is certainly not the most appropriate. Having said that, I would also like to take advantage of some considerations on the issue of demonization of negationists. I have listened to the speech by my colleague who spoke earlier, and I believe that some things must be said on this point. We must be careful about the issue of negationists. I understand colleagues in the Democratic Party, the triggers or, however, this Giallorossi left, who put a mark and invite you to be careful because they are wrong messages. This, however, is not a problem of messages. There is a creeping conviction, which I can see in my very small intercourse with people, that the Covid-19 affair is a sort of invented or exaggerated thing, which serves exclusively to "keep under" the population and keep under the people, to use an expression that these subjects often use. Denialism, then, is not only a problem of wrong messages and on this - for goodness sake - we all agree. There is a problem upstream, in fact, that relative to the way in which the popular feeling lives the state of emergency, lives the news that are given by the news and lives the diffusion of what is said with reference to the contagions. It's a feeling. For pity's sake, it is then up to politics to measure feelings, but, regardless of this, they are evidently sentiments that the ways in which the emergency was managed, and therefore the deprivation of personal freedoms, have determined without the need for anyone's push or message. Attention, therefore, to the extensions of the state of emergency that are not however conveyed and explained, especially if they are then approved with confidence, therefore avoiding in fact to collect the indications that come from the people. The other consideration that needs to be made is that, very often, even today the reaction is a reaction of fear. It is a reaction of fear, which must not, however, be exaggerated or cultivated because, at the time, it also creates further reactions of sociality by ordinary and normal people. To conclude, of course, we are opposed to the measure and therefore we will not vote for confidence. We will not vote for it as far as the act is concerned, for the story I have told. We will not also vote for it because, by putting ourselves on the question of trust, with reference to what the Government is, with all that we can say and think about what it has done in recent months (and we say it very quietly), starting with the way in which it was born, it is clear that our judgment can only be of a negative nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u69	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are voting in this House for yet another conversion into law of a Covid-19 emergency decree-law, but the situation in which we do so is completely new. In fact, we are faced with a delegitimized Parliament, not only because of the outcome of the referendum, with which the voters have confirmed that one third of us should no longer be here, but because the party that occupies one third of the seats of the Senate does so abusively, having now less than 10% of the votes of the country! [[Applause]] Once again, we are voting on the conversion of a decree-law, after it has been adopted with confidence in the House and after a very rapid transition to the Commission, without any possibility of intervention, even in the face of amendments of absolute common sense. This branch of Parliament will have to digest this measure and do it quickly, because we are only a few hours away from its decadence. This is the much-spoken democracy of the Movimento 5 Stars, on the contrary, excuse me, perhaps I should use the new name: Movement 5 times 100! [[Applause. Comments]] With the measure under consideration, we do not vote, as some would suggest, the extension of the state of emergency; that has already established the Government at the end of July: this decree-law instead allows Giuseppe Conte to continue to limit the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms through administrative acts. Although that is not what is being put to our attention, there is much to be said about the extension of the state of emergency. In our country, fortunately, there is no longer a health emergency like when, in the last spring, hospitals were in management stress. The increase in the positives recorded in recent weeks is mostly given by asymptomatic subjects that emerge thanks to the greater number of swabs carried out. I ask you: is the minimal increase in patients and deaths, which no one denies, such as to justify the state of emergency in a greater way than the deaths of a heart attack, cancer or road accident? Why, then, do we not declare the state of emergency for these categories as well? The only irrefutable emergency is your inability to handle the situation, your inability to manage the economic crisis, your inability to set up a national plan for the autumn, your inability to manage the school! [[Applause]] You're not even able to provide the masks to the pollers. [[Applause]] Arcuri and Lamorgese had to borrow them from the Regions and then, perhaps, return them when the ones they bought for the elections arrive. Shame on you! [[Applause. Comments]] This measure, instead of regulating fundamental aspects of individual freedoms, only prolongs the possibility of using the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers as an inadequate instrument, as many constitutionalists have repeatedly pointed out. As we have repeated several times, this is a mere administrative act of secondary rank which could not in any way interfere with the freedoms of movement, assembly, religion and enterprise, as has been the case in recent months. Our Constitution provides, in Article 77, for a specific legislative instrument to be adopted under conditions of necessity and urgency: the Decree-Law, which is subject to the scrutiny of the Head of State (just for its importance of intervention in extraordinary situations) and, above all, that of Parliament (deputed for its conversion). Our Constitution therefore provides, even in extraordinary and urgent cases, an active role for Parliament to ensure the balance between powers. The decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers are mere secondary legislative acts and, as such, are not only removed from the subsequent scrutiny of Parliament and the President of the Republic, but are also indispensable ex post, as they escape the subsequent control of the Constitutional Court. These decrees, on the other hand, have significantly affected the inviolable rights and fundamental freedoms of each individual and of the community, until they come to compress them completely and will continue to do so for as long as the extension that is to be granted by this decree-law. As if that were not enough, the measure also contradicts the commitment that the Government had solemnly taken before Parliament, by virtue of which it had undertaken to adopt any new restrictive or suspensive measures of the fundamental freedoms and inviolable rights provided for and protected by the Constitution by law or act having the force of law. Only with those! [[Applause]] The decree-law under consideration, extending the emerging rules, also contributes to increasing a climate of tension that has a negative impact on the national economy. The focus should be on a few simple prevention rules (masks, distance and hygiene), the gradual and prudent return to normality and the revival of the economy and businesses. On the other hand, we remain at the mercy of the chaos of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, of the wheelchairs, of the scooters, of the bonuses and of the income of "divanza," instruments that are completely free of long-term effects. [[Applause]] But if, as you say, the state of emergency is really so necessary, why do you continue to allow and encourage illegal entry into our country? [[Applause]] Of course, guaranteed for all illegals all the controls, rapid swabs, health care, comfortable places and luxury ships to spend the quarantine, all things that however you are not able to guarantee to the Italians. First the stranger, first the clandestine, that's your motto! [[Applause]] You have quadrupled the landings, with the aim of ensuring what for you is the real political emergency: that of resuming the business of exploitation, the business of reception, the business of the caporalate and slavery, the business of the underworld, not counting the many entrances that you are not able to control, such as those of the Balkan track. In so doing, you are putting the health of citizens at risk, you are irresponsible and sooner or later you will have to account for it. [[Applause]] You are so careful to think of the illegals that you have forgotten a slice of fellow countrymen as important as they are extremely delicate, that of fragile workers, immunodepressants and those protected by Law 104. Until the end of July, the previous decrees had provided protection for these highly endangered categories, which still are, even in the face of a limited viral load such as the one in circulation at this time. You forgot. You told these people: "Go to the factory, go to the train, go to the tram; rather, stick to the tram: for you we have not allocated the money, because we are still doing the calculations of the spending commitment, but if you want we give you a scooter." [[Applause]] That's what you told him. You're exposing them to unnecessary risk, do you realize that? I should like to conclude, Mr President, by addressing a very sensitive subject, paragraph 6 of Article 1, which amends the procedure for renewing the summits of the secret services, a very serious provision for three reasons. The first is that there has been no anticipation of the parliamentary debate and there has been no confrontation with the opposition forces, which should be sacrosanct when intervening on the cornerstones of the Republican guarantees and on a law that, as in this case, had been passed with the sharing of the whole constitutional arc. The second is that we limit the autonomy of the Services Summits by giving Conte a power that no other President of the Council has had in the last eighty years. The same Copasir requested a change in order to take action at least to define the times and modalities of the extensions. This fact was also reminded this morning by Senator Arrigoni, but you listen as a merchant and pull straight on a text that - we all know - is also invisible to a large part of your majority. The third is that there is no reason to include it in a measure such as this, which deals with anything else and which should have been deleted from the principle of homogeneity of the decree. It is a real forcing, which poses very serious questions. If there's a connection between Secret Service and Covid, now tell us what it is. [[Applause]] The house of democracy, this Parliament, must be made of glass, it must be transparent, there can be no doubt that something unclear has happened, perhaps in relations with an Eastern foreign power. [[Applause]] And this is not the only dark point: there are the minutes of the technical-scientific committee on red areas, made public late and only partially, and there are the files on pandemic predictions kept secret and of which no information was given to the health authorities and the governors of the regions. A clue is a clue, two clues are a coincidence, but three clues make a test, proof that the Italians are paying an account too dear to a Premier and his movement that every election is humiliated by the popular vote. For all these reasons, President, the Lega Salvini Premier Group will not vote for this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u72	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the aftermath of the first wave of emergency, 74% of Italians considered the way in which the government had managed the Coronavirus crisis to be positive; this is one of the highest values among the major advanced economies, according to a survey conducted in 14 countries by the Pew Research Center. It is no secret to anyone that the Italian administration has been judged positively by the world press: in March Italy and Spain were the epicenter of the pandemic from Covid-19; at the height of their epidemics Spain recorded almost 10,000 cases per day and Italy more than 6,500; both countries reported the situation under control with a combination of leadership, humility, active participation of every member of society and a global approach; both countries faced a daunting situation, but turned it upside down; said the Director-General of the World Health Organization at the press conference in Geneva. Of this correct management we are still feeling the positive consequences: while the other countries are almost close to new closures, in Italy the electoral consultations could be held quietly and the RT index is still among the lowest in Europe today. The emergency is not over and indeed we are preparing for a difficult period in which it will be very important to act by benefiting from what we have learned in the past months. We all have a duty not to frustrate the positive effects achieved thanks to the enormous sacrifices that Italian citizens have made, with a sense of responsibility that has partially amazed the world but which is now recognized to us. To contain and combat the emergency remains imperative actions to preserve the health of citizens, even in the light of the gradual and just easing of the most restrictive measures we have experienced in recent months. The pandemic is a process in continuous evolution, so as to require as much caution as possible. The situation in the rest of the world is still dramatic and also presents a particularly deteriorating epidemiological picture in Europe. Parliament's central role in defining guidelines in the management of the emergency phase is undisputed. In the relationship between Government and Chambers it should be remembered that, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 2 (1) of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. According to this provision, the President of the Council of Ministers or a Minister delegated by him must explain in advance the content of the measures to be taken, in order to take into account, as has been done, any guidelines formulated by them and, where not possible for reasons of urgency related to the nature of the measures taken, however, the Government reports subsequently. Having overcome the impasse created in the first period, certainly due not to bad faith but to the concitement and gravity of the moment, I appeal to everyone to be able to act with the utmost confidence and collaboration. I have also heard sterile polemics in relation to the relations between the President of the Council and the secret services (we have just heard them); yesterday's hearing, lasting more than two hours, of the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte at the Copasir goes in the same direction of institutional transparency to which the Government has always adhered; if critical issues arise, as stated by Copasir himself in a statement in the margins of the hearing, the objective will be to intervene on the rules of law n. 124 of 2007 on the appointment of directors of information and security agencies, in a spirit of collaboration that cannot and must not be lacking. In addition to this, however, the need has emerged, overcoming the emerging and contingent logics, to start as soon as possible an organic action to update the law in order to adapt it to the evolution of the institutional framework and to the new threats to security. So, colleagues, enough with unfounded illations, which are not good for our country, which now has a lot of other priorities. The transparency with which this Government is acting and will continue to do so is in the eyes of everyone, as is clearly your constant desire to delegitimise the work done by President Conte and this majority. Our government has always acted in the exclusive interest of the health of all of us. Today we are called to ensure continuity in the conduct of the Commission, which, guided by the principles of adequacy and proportionality, has allowed fundamental actions to assist citizens, as it will intervene in the protection of fragile workers, which is a priority of this Parliament and of the whole Government. The measure we are voting on, therefore, is this: we all have a duty to repeat it: it does not mean going towards a new lockdown, but exactly the opposite. We are working to prevent this from happening in a preventive way. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. The numbers in Italy and around the world and the absence of a vaccine or effective drug therapy tell us that we cannot abandon the sense of responsibility that has guided us so far. The extension of the state of emergency is a choice dictated by the need for security that is imposed in a country that wants to start gradually to normality; it is a decisive step that affects issues crucial to the community. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u73	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u74	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1928, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law 30 July 2020, n. 83, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. I therefore call for this vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Berutti is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Berutti. LAFORGIA, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - at 5 p.m.) The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Botto, Bressa, Buckarnelli, Charcoal, Casini, Castaldi, Castiello, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Di Piazza, Garavini, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fedeli, Fenu, Ferrara, Ferrari Senators say no: Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barbaro, Barboni, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Bianetti, Bonino, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bruzzone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caliguri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Casolati, Causin, Centinario, Cesaro, Ciampolellino, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, De Bertoldi, De Poli, De Vecchis Fantetti, Fazzolari, Ferrero, Ferro, Fregolenti, Fusco Gallone, Garnero Santanche, Gasparri, Giammanco, Grassi Iannoni, Iwobi La Pietra, Lucidi, Lunesu Maffoni, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Marti, Marti, Maersco, Maersco Altredo, Garnero, Garnero, Montefredo, Minnero, Mofero, Montena, Moto, Moto, Moto, Moto, Moto PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1928, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law 30 July 2020, n. 83, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 263 Senators voting 263 Majority 132 Favorable 143 Contrari 120]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and the agenda relating to the text of Decree-Law No 83.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u77	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I rise with regard to Question 3-00804 on the issue of the Rai signal in the Piedmontese valleys. At the beginning of 2019 a conference was held in Cuneo in which representatives of 150 municipalities complained that in many areas, especially in mountain areas, foothills and hills, the signal Rai arrived practically never or in a very sporadic way. Following that signal, among other things concerning about 300,000 inhabitants in Piedmont, Rai intervened by communicating that from the data in her possession not to receive perfectly the signal Rai were at most 60,000-70,000 people and that in any case by the end of 2020 there would be total coverage throughout Piedmont, 100 percent signal throughout the Region. Over the past few weeks, however, there has been a feeling that you were not going in the right direction. Last year we tabled a question 3-00804 in which we summarized the existing situations and called for urgent action. Now we are a few months from the end of the year that should have seen the solution to the problem at 100%. In the last few weeks, however, news arrives from the valleys that the signal is not practically present in most of them or in some cases it is present only for a few hours a day. This is not a public service to have which citizens pay the fee. We are therefore asking that it be reported to the Government and, through it, also to the RAI that we would like to see in fact fulfilled that commitment made at the beginning of 2019, namely 100% coverage of the signal Rai, which among other things is an explicit right of citizens who are rightly claiming it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u80	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, in recent days I have publicly appealed to Minister Franceschini, in the belief that his distraction from a very serious current phenomenon is not yet tolerable. I am referring to the demolitions that, especially in Campania, the so-called house floor, but also elsewhere in the entire national territory, are affecting the historical building of the Renaissance and modern age up to the nineteenth century, both in urban centers and in the countryside. In these days, outside and within our cities monumental complexes of excellent architectural quality, often multi-layered, literally end up in dust, even on a single day of work given the power of the excavators available, to make room for lots that could easily arise elsewhere without this immense sacrifice. All too often the abandonment of buildings and historical buildings is sufficient, together with the more or less advanced ruinization, to justify the reckless removal of these pieces of our history with the need to ensure public safety. Even the ruins of classical antiquity, like the walls of Teano - to give just one example - risk to succumb, after more than two thousand years, to the assault not of enemy armies, but of the blameless firemen, called to intervene in emergency, demolishing, on structures of which they ignore the real conditions of stability. It is up to Parliament to finally begin the discussion of the bill on historic centres due to the Bianchi Bandinelli association, and these days something seems to be moving in this direction. But a Minister of Culture - for his part - should not attend such a dramatic spectacle without trying with every means at his disposal to put a stop to it and above all by keeping silent. Just today, I was reading about "La Prealpina" which, after having reasoned on the point with Minister Bellanova, Franceschini hopes for an ecobonus intervention for country houses because - I quote to the letter - it is a pain to see wonderful farmhouses abandoned or collapsed. A merely aesthetic, sentimentalistic perspective, which we thought had been overcome for decades, is the only feeling that the owner of the Mibact can manifest, and yet, as long as it serves to save that building patrimony without overturning it, and I stress without overturning it. More concretely, however, Mr President, I would like to say that it is necessary - and it cannot wait any longer - for a census of historical buildings throughout the national territory, both urban and rural, that as soon as possible provides the territorial offices of the Mibact with data useful to assess the opportunity to initiate checks of cultural interest and consequent constraints. It is the result of our national memory materialized in the Italian landscape, so much praised also abroad. Before digitizing the heritage, with all due respect for such an initiative, also sponsored in recent days, that heritage must be defended, otherwise very soon there will be nothing more to digitize nor any national identity in which to recognize itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u83	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on differentiated autonomy, on regionalism, after a year of government, the Counte-bis, there are still no initiatives, there are only mere declarations of intent. Let us remember that differentiated regionalism is a great opportunity, a solution for a general reorganization of a State whose institutional weakness has long been known and which has become truly dramatic during this health emergency. Differential regionalism is essentially the enhancement of excellence and local characteristics, it is the responsibility of local politics: you have skills, you have to manage them well. We had proposed a plant; we had more than a hundred meetings for the negotiation with the Regions and with the various Ministries: use that job without wasting any more time. The financing mechanism, which we had developed with the overcoming of the historical expenditure towards the standard needs, allows, yes, to manage the resources, but it also imposes to the Regions that efficiency that today is indispensable in order to ensure that this our Italy is finally competitive and has the future that deserves a great Country like ours. Remember that regionalism is not born in the secret rooms of some party headquarters - and I say this also to colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars - but it is born in and among the people. We have just celebrated a referendum, the last. The results of the referendums are not commented on: they are simply respected and carried out. We have called for a referendum in Veneto and Lombardy: about 2.3 million Venetians and 2.9 million Lombards, 98 and 96 percent, voted in favour. I think the people's will is clear. And the will of the people, gentlemen, is our first constitution. And if in Veneto President Zaia has had a consensus that has been attested to 76.79 percent, with a program that sees autonomy and the demand for autonomy in the first place, one cannot but consider it constitutionally necessary. Finally we say yes to this request for autonomy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u86	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as the Forza Italia Group, we have just tabled a parliamentary question because it is clear that the right to travel with appropriate standards of service, equal throughout the country, is a luxury that the citizens of Calabria cannot enjoy. The Government is responsible as much as Trenitalia for the increasing distance between Calabria and the rest of Italy and the more than six hours of travel that, from September 21st until - hopefully - to October 12th, users will have to endure to travel along the route Reggio Calabria-Rome and Rome-Reggio Calabria is just a clear example. An efficient connection is the indispensable starting point for the tourist and commercial development of a territory. The memory of Premier Conte who announced last February 14 in Gioia Tauro the decrease to four hours of the journey time of the trains between Rome and Reggio and Reggio and Rome is still sharp in my mind, as are clear in my mind the pages of the 2030 South Plan, development and cohesion for Italy. Keep this Government faithful to its commitments with Calabria and start the construction sites as soon as possible to bring the true High Speed also to the South of Salerno. There cannot continue to exist two Italies: one connected with modern and efficient infrastructures and another in which simple works are enough to return to the sixties. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear, unfortunately, that the car on which this Commission is traveling is in unjustifiable delay. For this reason, I ask the Government and the Ministers asked to respond as soon as possible, giving certainty of the completion of the work by the date announced and taking concrete actions to protect the right to mobility of the citizens of Calabria, as well as tourists who would like to visit our beautiful places by traveling on average fast trains, clean and at not excessively high costs. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u89	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to call for the act of inspection union 4-03832 I would like to draw attention to an issue concerning the state of uneasiness in which hundreds of workers in the former delivery agencies are now unemployed, despite the fact that for decades they have carried out delivery activities for all postal products throughout the territory under the concessionary regime. Following briefly the reference legislation, it is noted that by legislative decree No 261 of 1999, transposing Directive 97/67 of the European Community, concessions to delivery agencies had been withdrawn, providing for the introduction of the institutions of the individual licence and the general authorisation for the performance of non-confidential postal services. There has therefore been a gradual and inexorable reduction in employment levels within the delivery agencies, which have seen their number reduced from 70 in 2000 to 10 in the last period. With a first act of inspection union of 11 October 2018 I had already highlighted the problem of quo. Following my initiatives had been opened at the Mise a table of comparison with Poste italiani for the relocation of former workers. In the meeting of 11 July 2019, held at the Mise, Poste Italiani had expressed the intention to proceed to the aforementioned relocation after delivery of a list with the names of the workers concerned and registration in the section "Work with us" on the site of the same company. Despite the forwarding of the above list, on July 19, 2019 no call procedure appears to have been activated and, therefore, on the problem I have prepared another act of inspection union of which I have been solicited. I really hope that the Government will take care of this issue and that the Italian Post Office will be able to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u90	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-259.ana.u91	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 5 October, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is adjourned (17.54 p.m.).
