ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 4 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00234 by Senator Zaffini and other senators, 1-00240, tabled by Senator Sclari and other senators, 1-00241, tabled by Senator Castellone and other senators, and 1-0024, presented by Senator Cantù and other senators, on the activation of serological tests for the Covid-19 virus. I call Senator Zaffini to explain motion No 234.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u5	Mr President, the work, which preceded the presentation of the motion that I am going to present, was intense work, carried out in the Commission, where we proceeded through the instrument of the deal assigned and, subsequently, the need to submit the motion by the entire Group of the Brothers of Italy. This motion sees me as the first signatory, but, together with me, the second signatory is our Parent Company and, to follow, there are the signatures of all the colleagues of the Brothers Group in Italy. There is a reason why we have come to deposit, in conjunction with the discussion of the deal assigned, this hypothesis of motion. The reason is simply that, at the moment and even today, we see a clear gap, in facing phase 2 - let's call it reopening or as we want - with respect to the need to understand the weight of the presence of the infection in the population. Well, majority and opposition understand that at the moment we are discussing this issue only thanks to the fact that the whole of the Brothers of Italy Group has signed and obtained the calendarization of the discussion of such an important subject, that paradoxically it is absent from the whole chain of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and from all the acts presented by the majority until now in the Assembly, or necessarily everyone assumes its responsibilities. As far as I am concerned, I would like to call for a thorough screening of the presence of the virus in our population, and it is not the seroprevalence investigation that responds to this need, obviously, being simply a statistical operation, not by chance piloted by Istat. The seroprevalence investigation is one thing and on that we will decide when we go to face the 1800 Senate Act in the Chamber, the need to proceed to a deep screening is something else. With what instrument, the Ministry tells us, the scientific community tells us, the whole chain that arrives at the validation of the tests, be they serological or molecular. Certainly, however, we need to map the Italian population when we go to reopen all the activities. This mapping cannot be done with small and limited numbers, we have to proceed tending to analyze the whole population - because this is what we talk about when it comes to screening - starting, of course, from a substantial number (I guess 10 million tests) in a month, a month and a half. This thing we can do only by having available tools of wide use and availability (so it is necessary that there are pieces), tools that do not provide invasive tests, because it is evident that the population must voluntarily lend itself to this type of investigation, and that do not imply the need to undergo laboratory analysis with reagents (we have already checked that in front of the swabs there is not then the availability of the reagents, of the pieces necessary to analyze the population in depth). These requirements will be presented to the scientific community, who will have to tell us, through the Ministry, what the appropriate tools are. We know that a fast sublingual buffer is being evaluated (but I don't do virology), we know that there are serological tests that have a ease of use and that need to be validated, because presumably there will be good ones and less good ones. We also know, Mr President - I would like colleagues to listen - that today all regions, in total absence of regulation, are proceeding independently. Last night we all saw an episode of the transmission "Report" that was pivoting on precisely this, the fact that each Region in the absence of the validation of reliable tests and the obvious need to understand what is the presence of the virus in the population and map it precisely regulates itself. We know, in fact, that this virus is characterized by a high incidence of non-symptomatics and therefore it is like going - to still use the metaphor that I have always used in these discussions - to lighthouses turned off at night: we can't, of course, afford it. We cannot afford a second lockdown and therefore we must make available to the regions, to the doctors of general medicine, to the whole network and to the entire chain of public health tools suitable to verify the presence of the virus. This is what we say in our motion, which is summed up with three commitments. I do not read the three commitments in which our motion is summed up, but I undertake first of all to allocate the necessary resources. I would remind you that, in this regard, there is an agenda, approved with a favourable opinion of the Government in the discussion of the decree cure Italy, which said exactly this: it is necessary to make available to the regions adequate resources to proceed to the purchase of rapid tests, useful to map the presence of the virus in the population. Another commitment is to regulate the use of the virus - I am saying things of a disconcerting banality - that is: the Ministry must say what tests are useful for screening, how to carry out screening, how to collect and order the response data, how to use all this informative material to proceed with the updating of protocols and measures of containment of the virus. With the third commitment, assuming that this instrument should be available, we say that it must also be authorised for free sale at the pharmacy, for the simple fact that there may be someone who decides to go to the pharmacy to buy the test and to self-diagnosticize the presence or not of the virus in terms not only of diagnosis, but also of epidemiological investigation. All the steps that involve screening, to my knowledge, provide a first approximate tool that, precisely, carries out a first scan of the presence of the virus, except then, in cases of positivity, proceed to a second investigation, more in-depth, useful for clinical diagnosis, which clearly ascertains the presence or not of the virus in the subject involved. Of course, if we're talking about screening, we need to talk about at least ten million pieces up. Trendically, we must, within two or three months, map the presence of the virus throughout the population. If we are aware of this, as far as the Brothers of Italy are concerned, we are not interested in flags. We don't just want to score a point. We have already done this with the timetable in this House, rather than with others. We did ours. Now, everyone takes on their responsibilities. We are willing to approve a unitary text, starting from these assumptions, of course, but it is clear that the instrument of the motion is an instrument that is the prerogative of the opposition: the majority makes the laws, the majority makes the agendas, the opposition uses that small instrument that is the motion: Let go of him! We are willing to cancel the whole part of the premises and legend, available to deal with commitments, but not available, since the motion is signed by my Group as a whole, not to have the first signature. We are also further willing to share this blessed first signature. There is Mrs Castellone, whom I thank and thank always for the commitment she puts into her work, with whom we are ready to share the first signature. Mr President, I therefore hope that we can have a frank and honest debate. After that, we could also decide to suspend for just a few minutes the work of this House to try, ultimately, to obtain a unitary text. I think it is a desirable result for the Senate Assembly to say something of its own in an emerging pandemic phase such as the one we are experiencing. So far, this has not happened. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u6	I call Senator Siclari to explain motion No 240.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Forza Italia, since 31 January, since the official health emergency, has immediately felt the political responsibility to give institutional support to the Government in the interests of the country, in order to protect the health and life of citizens. We have done so in this House every time we have met, under the leadership of President Bernini; each of us in our party has done so in order to bring effective solutions to the government, advice and suggestions, in order to minimise the seriousness of the health emergency. We have also done so in Europe, in order to make the best political part of our country more important within the European Community. We did this with President Berlusconi and Vice President Antonio Tajani. Now we are forced to live with something that is not yet known; we know little and every day we see it also through television, with the highest experts who alternate and talk about Covid: there are many contradictions that emerge in their reflections and their assessments. Once we talked about the importance of the masks and the next day the masks were no longer useful; now they are fundamental. The use of gloves has been mentioned and now gloves are no longer useful. Contradictions that have also created confusion in the citizens, for this reason it is important that we also have a clear direction from this House on how to deal with this phase. We have also worked very hard in the Commission and I thank all my colleagues, including the majority, for the willingness of President Collina to share what is also parliamentary activity with the opposition. That is why today, in this House, we want to make yet another contribution: we feel morally, institutionally and politically obliged - and happily obliged - to make a further and constant contribution to our country. We do so by making a motion, because we realize that at this moment, in phase 3, of which we do not yet know, from what emerges from the relationship with the virus, how much the same can be contagious in the future. How many times the World Health Organization itself has told us that there may be a relapse, a second wave. So, today we want to make a contribution so that the hypothetical second wave can be reduced to the maximum, the risk of facing a second wave. Our motion goes in this direction. We're missing an epidemiological investigation in our country. We have studies according to which the infected have been about 3 million; German studies that declare that we have had about 6 million infected, hypotheses that are still not confirmed, while we need today, even using epidemiological statistics to the maximum, to know as much as possible what is the immunity of the Italian population compared to the virus, how many have been infected, how many citizens are infected today without knowing it. Therefore, the Government's willingness to apply a number of tests to citizens to know the relationship that exists or that exists with the virus is important, but it is not enough in the amount that is indicated by the Government: 150,000 tests are really few. We need to have at least a screening that can involve 10% of our country's population, at least 10% for each region. Perhaps we start to have a more concrete idea of what has been the infection in the previous months and what is the immunity of citizens compared to the virus. The progressive restart of economic activities is taking place with great effort by our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are suffering for the billed ones that are missing, because we have reopened but there is no restart of the economy, we all know it: you can not start again. We cannot risk that, despite their efforts, the country will fall into a new spread of contagion and a new lockdown. Today, before that happens, we must intervene; we must do so through an epidemiological investigation that can involve at least 10% of the population. It is important to analyse such a percentage, because we will understand how many have been in contact with the virus and have developed antibodies and immunoglobulins, which we all know and can also be used, as one of the commitments of the motion that we address to the Government, to create the national plasma bank. From the experiments done in Pisa, Mantua and Padua, you all know that 96 percent of the people who were in difficult conditions were hung by a thread because the common therapies used today for the Covid-19 did not give chance of healing. Using serotherapy, we have seen that 96 percent of these people, who risked dying, have recovered. It is therefore essential to prepare us, today, in order to know how many citizens are immune in Italy to understand what can be the risk of a second relapse and a future lockdown, and then, through this work, to understand how many Italians have developed antibodies and immunoglobulins, that can possibly be used to build the national plasma bank, that can be put at the service of the entire Italian hospital network to try to save today those in intensive care and tomorrow - I hope there will never be anyone - in case there should be a second wave. We need to be ready. The commitments of the motion also include making known the studies for the validation of serological tests that I am talking about and which have been recognised as valid, as has often emerged by comparing us in the Commission with my colleagues Castellone, Zaffini, Binetti and President Collina, as well as evaluating the methodologies for identifying potential donors of antibodies IgM and IgG. Moreover, the creation of a digital platform is planned, allowing us to convey all regional data related to the serological investigations carried out, and the rapid definition of the needs of molecular tests and to ensure the availability of molecular tests in the immediate future; the updating of guidelines for the use of molecular and serological tests in order to identify also the subjects to whom the test is strongly recommended. I believe that the Government's will to commit itself to meeting the country, the citizens, especially as regards the protection and life of citizens, is not lacking. We have never called this into question and will never do so. We have never put instrumental policy before the interests of the citizens. For this reason we have always been in institutional support of the country giving serious and concrete contributions, in the form of suggestions to the Government to reduce to the maximum the severity of this health emergency. If the government wants to carry out the commitments provided for in this motion, we will be very happy if it is approved; we are happy and so will you, because we prevent the maximum risk of further infection and, if there is any, we are also ready to give assistance with plasma therapy, since there is a lack of treatment that cures Covid and vaccines. This is an additional tool. Should we fail to approve the motion of opposition that Forza Italia is presenting today, the Group is nevertheless willing to approve a document - said Anna Maria Bernini - in the absolute interest of the citizens' lives that includes the commitments we have brought in this document. I repeat that Forza Italia has the political will to put before the protection of the lives of citizens - in fact, we speak of serological tests and plasma bank - to the electoral interest of the party: first the Italians. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u8	I call Senator Castellone to explain motion 241.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about tests for the detection of the virus Sars-Cov-2, which is a RNA coronavirus that causes the disease called Covid-19, declared a global health emergency on 30 January and a pandemic on 11 March. Among the criteria to be followed for the post-closure or post-lockdown phase, three actions were identified as priorities, the so-called three Ts: tracing, testing and treating patients early. It is therefore essential to build a well-distributed health surveillance network in order to monitor, immediately identify positive cases, isolate them, track the transmission chain and treat them effectively, already at home. Only a close monitoring of the progress of the transmission of the virus on the national territory will allow us, if necessary, to quickly implement measures of containment of the contagions in any new outbreaks. In order to identify positive subjects early it is important to use in vitro diagnostic methods of high specificity and sensitivity, which allow to ascertain the presence of the virus already in the early stages of infection. To this end, several molecular and serological tests are available to date. However, a distinction must be made: while serological tests show the response of the host's immune system to the infection, through IgM and IgG antibodies, molecular tests measure the presence of the virus itself and therefore the infectiousness of the individual. A negative result to the serological test does not exclude, therefore, the possibility of infection in place at an early stage and in fact this type of test is useful especially in the epidemiological evaluation of the viral circulation, to estimate the spread of the infection in a community, to highlight the occurrence of exposure to the virus in asymptomatic individuals or with mild symptoms and to define the rate of lethality. It is also important to stress that current scientific knowledge of the serological tests for Sars-Cov-2 does not provide information on the presence of neutralising antibodies, that is, to protect against infection, or on the persistence of long-term antibodies (so-called immunity). It is therefore clear that such tests, even important for research and epidemiological evaluation, cannot be used in diagnostic activity and cannot in any way replace molecular tests, as can be seen from the circular of the Ministry of Health of 9 May. While, however, the Ministry circulars speak clearly about these tests, the Regions have adopted different policies, some foreseeing the use of serology also for diagnostic purposes, others preventing its use. Precisely the use of serological tests for the diagnosis of Covid-19 in environments at risk, such as hospitals and health care residences, has contributed in several cases to the genesis of outbreaks of contagion, initially started from negative tests, as for example happened at the hospital Santa Maria delle Grazie in Pozzuoli and at Villa Mercede in Ischia. As a confirmation of the value of these tests in seroprevalence investigations, on Monday 25 May an epidemiological investigation was launched by the Ministry of Health, of which we will discuss shortly in this House, which will offer a photograph of the state of spread of the virus in our country at this historical moment and the development of antibody response in the Italian population following the first wave of infection. Unlike serological tests, molecular tests give indications, on the other hand, on the current infection and are therefore the most reliable method to detect even very low concentrations of viruses in a subject. To date the molecular tests of election are certainly the so-called swabs, which are carried out through the collection of samples from the renofaring, which are then subjected to Realtime PCR, a technique that amplifies the viral genome possibly present. This examination, highly specific and sensitive, however, has the limit to foresee a rather long analysis process and linked to the availability of specific kits that, with the pandemic, have become difficult to find, so much so that the increasing need for testing for the containment of the virus in phase 2 has pushed the main companies and associations of category to confirm the saturation of the worldwide production capacity of reagents for extraction of RNA, also prompting the technical-scientific committee to publish on the dedicated portal a request for offer in order to find at least 5 million molecular tests fast, automated and composite. To date it must be remembered that Italy is certainly one of the countries to have carried out from the beginning of the emergency more molecular tests, with the highest number of swabs per 100,000 inhabitants. However, the great variability of numbers and protocols between regions should be highlighted. The procedure for accessing the buffer was in fact organized differently in the various areas of the country, providing in some cases the intervention of numerous actors (doctors of general medicine, departments of prevention of ASL, 118), forcing also patients with protested symptoms to wait for days before receiving a diagnosis and be able to be inserted in a Covid path. The discrepancies generated by the arbitrariness with which, in respect of their prerogatives, each Region has put into practice different initiatives have caused so much confusion and some error and, in a second possible peak of contagions, we cannot afford, neither confusion, nor errors. This is why it is essential that we work together immediately to define a common strategy, which guarantees equal time for diagnosis and equal access to care for all citizens throughout the country. In order to detect and isolate any new epidemic outbreaks, especially in sensitive environments, it is necessary for the tracking phase to follow the administration of tests that can quickly signal the presence of the virus. It is therefore necessary to make rapid molecular tests available and accessible to an increasing number of people at risk or suspected cases and to their contacts. Some of these rapid tests can even be performed on site (so defined as points of care tests) and provide the result much earlier than the classic buffer. The mapping of the population is in fact currently the most effective tool to be able to prevent any rise in the curve of the contagions, because the virus is still in circulation and the numbers we detect now, at a time when there is low viral circulation also thanks to the containment measures put in place, may not represent the real danger of the infection. This is why it is not necessary to give credit to those who are boasting that the virus has disappeared, to the new conspiracyists, to those who ask for freedom from the mask in the face still today of hundreds of new cases and dozens of deaths, to those who in an irresponsible way question even the usefulness of lockdown measures that, based on estimates based on certain numbers just published also on "Nature" have saved thousands of lives. We appreciate what has been done so far by the Government and ask for the same commitment for the future, defining the need for molecular testing and planning effective procurement strategies to encourage the widespread diffusion of the use of rapid tests, especially in sensitive places, dictating univocal lines for the use of molecular and serological tests on the entire national territory, introducing precise provisions in order to identify the subjects required to carry out the tests, providing for the creation of a digital platform to convey all regional data related to the serological and molecular surveys carried out in order to valorize the informative heritage deriving from the data collected so far. These are the commitments contained in the motion that we have drafted with our colleagues and which we are debating in this House today, convinced that the country needs the contribution of everyone and each of us to restart, so that the reform season we are about to face can truly be an opportunity for rebirth in which we rediscover the strength of sharing and solidarity in working together for the common good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u10	I would remind my colleagues in this House and the forums of the invitation to wear the mask.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u11	I call Senator Lunesu to explain motion 242.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Senator Castellone for her openness. Together with our fellow signatories to the motion, we believe that a genuine strategy is needed to tackle precisely the extension and circulation of Sars-Cov-2 infection: to strengthen surveillance networks and monitor the pandemic from possible future infection. A national anti-pandemic plan, appropriate health and social-health planning, as well as health care and prevention levels, are therefore needed. Serological tests are preparatory to epidemiological research and evaluation, but cannot be considered as replacement diagnostic instruments of the molecular test based on the identification of viral ribonucleic acid (RNA) from nasopharyngeal swabs. Serological investigation can identify contagious subjects, positive subjects outside the molecular test check time range; monitor healing patients and seek for relapses. However, current scientific knowledge of the ability to provide guidance on the presence of neutralised antibodies that can protect against infection and especially on the persistence of these antibodies in the body is still lacking. Serological tests should be carried out by medical and health professionals, because they are useful only when performed in certain time windows of the disease. In the first week of the infection the response is meaningless; the responses from immunoglobulin G (IgG) and immunoglobulin M (IgM) become detectable six to fifteen days after the onset of the disease. In the second week of the disease it would make sense to associate the execution of the buffer with the test and it is the dosage of the IgG that plays an important role in verifying immunity with regard to this virus. In fact, only the measure of prevalence, which is given by the relationship between the number of extraordinary health events detected in a population in a given period and the number of individuals observed in the same period, can make us aware of the rates of disease and lethality, thus giving the true measure of the infected, little infected or asymptomatic, which represents in total 80 percent. This survey must be parallel to continuous and constant statistical epidemiological monitoring and, therefore, not limited to a late seroprevalence study and uncertain results such as the one regulated by Decree-Law No 30 of 2020, which we will shortly examine. In our opinion, it is necessary to intervene on three macro-areas: the National Emergency Centre on the CDC model, which is one of the most significant health realities of Piedmont embedded in the health control center of the Ministry of Health, a true national prevention system, with a control cabin composed of the Disease Control Centre (CCM), the Higher Institute of Health and a representative of the Regions able to intervene immediately in case of epidemics and health emergencies; a timely update with guidelines and protocols to ensure certain rules and burn-down the related procedures; the creation of a network effectively integrated and coordinated by public health laboratories or qualified to carry out tests. Consideration should be given to the relevance of the tests for the detection of antibodies and the reliability of the tests should be found, naturally assessing, together with the specificity, also the sensitivity, because these two essential criteria go to assess the reliability of the test itself, given that the specificity is the ability to correctly identify healthy subjects, while the sensitivity is the ability to correctly identify the sick subjects, i.e. those suffering from coronavirus. We point out that the prevention and monitoring system must be integrated with the treatment system, combining plasma therapy with serology, while waiting for a tested vaccine. We therefore ask the Government to commit itself to setting up a steering booth with the head of the JCC, with the head of the Higher Institute of Health, with representatives of the Regions who, during pandemic and health emergencies, indicate to the Civil Protection the actions to be taken and the tools to be used. We call for the enhancement of diagnostics through validated screening and intensive dissemination based on appropriate guidelines, serological tests and, if necessary, molecular, inserted into the essential levels of assistance (LEA) of prevention. We ask for rapid tests to be carried out in the territories, as a percentage of the number of inhabitants and risk classes. We ask that the guidelines be updated on the basis of the evolution of new knowledge and conditions; that health professionals be assured of certain rules, guaranteeing protection in the emergency of health; that procedural requirements also be abolished in the field of sanitisation of the environment, of which the circular of the Ministry of Health anticipates [[Applause]] , albeit with restriction, the requirements to be submitted; to strengthen the network of public laboratories and affiliated as centres for the emergency diagnostic of microbiological tests of the research for companies that comply with the parameters of law at zero cost, ensuring an integrated and coordinated network, through the identification of reference standards related to the type of test, procedures and timing in the case of positive results. Again: we ask for a technological platform to be used to inform patients both in screening and in early diagnosis and treatment, especially plasma therapy, by activating a real national bank of immune plasma, or other solution, if more performing, prior to agreement State-Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. As far as strategies are concerned, we call for initiatives to identify increasingly effective vaccines, including new transfer technologies such as the patch vaccine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u13	I declare the debate open. Senator Totaro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u14	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group has long raised the issues which we have then transcribed in our motion and which we also see in other motions, for the truth. As my colleague Mr Zaffini said earlier, it is certainly not our intention to put flags on who did or did not do certain battles before; we are not interested. We are certainly faced with a very dangerous situation which concerns the so-called phase 2. We have seen what happened in phase 1 and the situation before it. This should put us in a position to learn what happened and possibly act accordingly. In our motion we have indicated how to deal with the so-called phase 2 and the dangers of a return of the virus to our territory; it is the mother of all battles, dear Deputy Minister and honourable senators. We could start any kind of discussion on the economic revival of our nation - and we are also in the front row with so many proposals on this - but if the virus and the health emergency come back, problems will arise for the whole of our nation. It is a problem that we will hardly be able to solve with interventions of an economic nature because of the fear created among our fellow citizens, as we are seeing in these days of first reopening of the various activities in our cities even of art still empty. Not only foreign tourists, but also many Italians have difficulty moving from Region to Region for fear of the virus. And this is the reality of the facts. Therefore, it is important for the state to intervene strongly on the issues of virus prevention, since we do not have the possibility of still having a vaccine and not even a certain cure. Although the motions present sound initiatives by scientific personnel on interventions and ways to improve the treatment of the virus, we certainly have nothing in our hands yet. The prevention phase is therefore crucial. The World Health Organization tells us to test, process and trace, and these cannot be empty slogans. We cannot find ourselves in an emergency condition such as the so-called first phase (the phase of closures) without knowing where to go and what to do; now we have a clear picture of what to do. Dear Deputy Minister, we must also take as an example what positive has been done in other nations. I am not convinced that Italy has acted worse than many other states, but I am convinced that some other state has acted better than Italy in the emerging phase, and I am taking the example of Germany. If we do not implement in the coming months what has been done in that country, it becomes difficult to block a possible return of the virus. I am talking first of all about the need to strengthen medicine on the ground, that is, the basic doctors and those who are at the forefront and at the border in fighting the enemy. And then it is necessary to strengthen screening interventions, and that is the object of our motion, and also of others. We cannot stop, dear representatives of the Government, Mr President, at a commercial intervention of 150,000 people in Italy; it becomes too little. In Germany, heavy screening was carried out on the population via swabs and serological initiative. The other aspect of which my colleague, Mr Zaffini, spoke before is not of secondary importance, because screening is one thing, while diagnostic intervention is subsequent to it. Citizens who want it must also be able to use rapid tests to be found in pharmacies, in order to certify the first phase, followed by the diagnostic phase. All these means - in my opinion - can guarantee something important and also provide greater security for citizens. Regarding the Immuni app, dear representatives of the Government, you have been telling us for days and days whether the app is worth or not; but, if people do not download it, it becomes useless. In Germany, not this path has been followed, but that of strengthening the basic medicine in the territory, making sure to trace all the positive results (i.e. the virus tracking and a task force of 20,000 people was created to carry out the checks. We have seen now that the numbers are very low; when there are one, two or five cases of new infections, we could control all the people who have attended those subjects. Of course, there are also asymptomatic people, and that is why our requests to increase screening and then diagnostics are important, which must go hand in hand. On the other hand, it is not a battle that we have started to fight just now. Already in the course of the examination of the decree cure Italy we had tabled an amendment in this direction, in which there was also a financing that we then turned into an agenda, accepted by the Government, which provides for the allocation of 250 million euros to strengthen the phases of screening and diagnostics, with the possibility of financing the Regions to follow this path. Mr. Deputy Minister, at this stage when the virus seems to be less aggressive, we could develop these issues. We see that sometimes the debate on this is very broad; my advice is to avoid doing what has happened in recent months, with people from academia and health care who say a bit about everything on television. I am not talking about you, Mr Deputy Minister, because you have always talked about these issues with great preparation and in a very moderate and quiet way, without ever wanting to appear as the one who has the truth in his pocket. Too many people, however, have left us amazed to see what was happening between those who were to govern the emerging phase. We've heard academics say everything and the opposite of everything. It is no longer possible, nor acceptable to proceed in this direction in the coming months, because this creates alarm among people. If there is no security in the direction in which we go, incredible problems are created which can hardly be solved even by economic interventions. In fact, the repercussions of the health emergency can be really heavy; we all know - and we are considering it these days - what is happening. We have tabled the motion constructively, and we have been thinking about it for a long time. We know that the mother of all battles is the one to prevent the repetition of a situation of gravity and health emergency such as that we have experienced in recent months. This is the mother of all battles; there is no more important battle because the others descend from it. If we boost the economy, but people are back afraid to take the virus, then the economic recovery of our country becomes a problem. The phases of screening, monitoring, enhancement of territorial medicine and diagnostics become fundamental. The intervention must be done massively, not with the Immuni app, nor with 150,000 tests. 10 million tests must be carried out, as is the case in Germany. We don't make anything up; it's something someone's already doing. It is in this direction that we have tabled the motion, in a constructive spirit and without any will to put flags. I think that the whole Senate should agree with these positions, because - I repeat - they are the ones that can guarantee a better future for our citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u15	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u16	Mr President, first of all I would like to acknowledge the work that has also been done in the Commission and the commitment that all the political parties have put into the debate that has been taking place on health issues for several days. First someone has done the same evaluation and I also want to thank my colleagues because, beyond the differences, in the Health and Health Commission we try to find the aspects that, in essence, allow us to deal with this pandemic in the most appropriate way possible. I would like to make two or three evaluations. We are debating in this test, a subject on which many of us have questioned each other. I start thinking about what is the essence of the situation that we are experiencing and I do it with a paradox: a hundred years ago the Spanish epidemic made millions of deaths. To inverted viruses, knowing today the great aggression of the present virus, I cannot imagine what a world disaster would have been the coronavirus a hundred years ago. At the end of World War I, Marie Curie began making plates in the rear of the French army that fought the war. Today we have absolutely immeasurable technologies compared to those of a hundred years ago. Therefore, to minimize the outcome of this pandemic - it is not conceivable that 30,000 deaths in Italy are comparable to millions of deaths - I think it is a very wrong fact. We are faced with a very serious and unprecedented situation, but we have dealt with a modern medicine that has allowed us to have results - in my opinion - absolutely difficult to accept, but still much more important from the point of view of the answer. And I say this because at the present stage I still see a great deal of ease with regard to the seriousness of the situation. It seems to me that we are facing phase 2, that of coexistence with the virus, with some optimism, while - in my opinion - we must keep our guard high compared to a virus that we do not yet know until the end, even if compared to three months ago we know how to cure it better, waiting for the decrease in the number of sick people in intensive care. Today intensive therapies are much less overcrowded, because fewer people reach that stage of gravity and that means we have given answers. The second point is the test strategy: someone says that there is no test strategy, while I say that there is one, but we have to figure out how to place it in relation to the scientific conditions, the production of tests, the validation of existing tests and the possibility of carrying them out. We have also heard in the Commission at the hearing that we are not able to do these tests which are certain that they are safe, that is to say the molecular ones. So what's the test strategy? It is to chase the virus as soon as it presents itself and try to isolate it as much as possible at the time it becomes evident. This is the strategy that holds together the ability to do certain tests with an organization of the health system and the availability of citizens, which allows us to isolate new outbreaks. That's the point and it's the meaning of the Immuni app, which I hope you've all downloaded, because we're the people who have more contacts and with that app we'll know if we've come into contact with someone who's declared infected. This is the method by which all of us in here put each other in safety with respect to the risk of contagion. And, at the time of the recognition of a case, the so-called index case (then there are the circulars of the Ministry that explain by thread and sign the strategy of testing and tracing), we intervene to try to isolate it in a clearer way, crossing all the contacts of the case index identified. And all this is necessary because we do not have the certainty about serological tests and there are still no rapid tests. This is the strategy that takes account of the data at the present time. As a third point - and I conclude - there is, however, an evolution, because week by week things change: some aspects that offer us additional possibilities are more highlighted, from the scientific point of view, but there is also an evolution in the sensitivity of people. If the President of Sardinia has to offer a good expense to entice tourists arriving on the island to take the test, it means that there is no general propensity for people to escape the test. This gives further meaning to the test strategy that we are currently pursuing, which is precisely what I was explaining earlier. I believe that in the evolution of situations, from the scientific point of view as well as in the overall sentiment, week by week we can also make progress in Parliament in assessing the choices to be made. We can reason and confront ourselves in order to understand, especially in the Health and Health Commission, beyond the preconceived starting positions, due to the fact that everyone can have in mind a system or an organization of things. In fact, it is the facts that force us and give us a helping hand to find the way together, to apply possible and feasible choices. It seems to me that in all the motions presented we find the word "update" which highlights a common intention. Week by week we need to update our assessments and try to understand how we are responding to the pandemic from the organisational point of view, prevention and, above all, isolation of the virus. I believe that we have made some progress on these issues and the Ministry of Health has taken the right steps in the evaluation of serological tests during this period, also in relation to the context in which the regions have given different and uncoordinated answers. I therefore hope that today's debate will lead to a shared meeting point, because I believe it would be a positive and important signal to be made at this time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u17	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u18	Mr President, the motions that we are about to vote on are indicative of what this last period has involved in the search for effective solutions to combat the Covid-19 and to avoid the loss of further human lives. The serological tests and plasmapheresis, in recent weeks, have divided science and opinionists increasingly improvised, creating in this way real factions, which have confused the citizens even more, looking for reassuring news in order to return to normality. On the one hand, as far as tests are concerned, there are those who claim that they are just a waste of public money. By the way, I don't know, but there's always the TAR or the judiciary involved. On the other hand, there is the belief that they are of considerable epidemiological importance. What is certain is that they cannot replace the buffer, because they do not have the diagnostic value, but we also know that, in case of antibody positivity, the molecular test must be done immediately, with the buffer. The serological test for the Covid-19 includes very reliable instrumental tests from an analytical point of view and, in particular, gives information about the individual's contact with the virus and should also have an epidemiological end, if you collect the data, because it helps the patient to understand if his immune system reacted to the virus, producing antibodies. Thanks to these tests you have the opportunity to gain awareness of the risk of infection, reducing the chances of infection of the patient in his own family or around him. Today it certainly seems difficult to imagine that the serological tests can develop an effective and reliable tool, i.e. the immunity license, both because we do not yet know whether and how much we remain immune after overcoming the infection with coronavirus, and because the tests available so far do not offer completely satisfactory margins of reliability. Of course, however, since the first experiments appeared, companies have competed to produce and make available what is necessary to understand if the virus had been contracted, but unfortunately once again the Government, the Ministry and the task forces, still committed to understanding what needs to be done, have not developed - or have done so late - a protocol that attests to what could be the most effective tests and which did not have the right and due scientific evidence. Just see that the Immuni app is now available, but we haven't had any answers on transparency and the path hasn't been so fast: it's been two months that talk about it and you still don't know what is the protection of personal data. The Technical and Scientific Committee of the Ministry of Health has recently defined the characteristics required for the new serological tests, which will have to have reliability of at least 95%, rapid execution and will have to give the possibility to be carried out on a very large scale, in several laboratories in the country. Well: these specifications are indicated for tests through the classic blood test, for which there is greater reliability and safety. Things are different for DIY tests; just see the offers circulating on the Internet: 10 tests at 200 euros plus VAT, 30 tests at 90 euros. I would like to see some clarity on this news, precisely to protect the citizens. The Ministry of Health cannot make a certain type of information campaign, with the Higher Institute of Health, to warn citizens who buy tests online and then maybe think they are immune and get sick two minutes later, no longer put the mask on and do not observe the distances. I would really like the Ministry of Health to have clear and unambiguous information for citizens. Among other things, citizens who submit to this type of test certainly do not send their results to the ASL, and then what is it for from an epidemiological point of view? There is therefore a certain chaos, so many positive hypotheticals, without further control through the buffer. It happened - for example - in a clinic in Florence, where employees reiterated that the examination could be carried out by private individuals and that, if the test had been positive, it would have been the discretion of the citizen to call the toll-free number and request the buffer; therefore, it is exactly the opposite of what should be expected of the practice, i.e. immediately preventive quarantine and buffer. The magnum sea of uncertainty, without national guidelines, has allowed each Region to manage its citizens independently. We find ourselves with a survey of the Ministry that does not at the moment have the effects hoped for, considering that only 24 percent of the population accept without hesitation, with every single Region that does what it believes best. In Emilia-Romagna - for example - private individuals can take the test individually only on prescription of the basic doctor; in Piedmont and Lombardy you can voluntarily submit even for curiosity; in Puglia you need the prescription; in Campania and Tuscany you do not know. It would have sufficed precise indications to the Regions and the private centers, with the objective to develop a methodology of analysis that could provide guarantees of safety and reliability for everyone throughout the national territory, also in the light of the latest scientific evidence due to the care of plasma. That is why in our motion we have deliberately and explicitly linked the two issues of fundamental importance. The experimentation of convalescent plasma - remember that it starts from 1890 - has seen its first results immediately. So it was not a question of exploring a new technique. The news that in some hospitals such therapy would be performed successfully dates back to April 2. Dr. Franchini, the primary hematologist of the Mantova Transfusion Center, explained it well: The concept of convalescent plasma has been on track for thirty years, even when there was Spanish fever at the beginning of the twentieth century. In the other two coronavirus epidemics, the 2002 Sars and the 2012 Mers, it has been successfully used; the World Health Organization admits its use and so on. The paradox occurred when the results were evident. In your opinion, was it normal to wait more than two months before the trial could also be officialized in our country? The truth is that antibodies formed and present in plasma today have been able to save so many lives, helping the immune system of patients. The main limit is to identify healed donors. But if it had been done sooner, they would have saved a lot more. The important thing is that you have to make a reserve of this plasma, which is not infinite, to have the greatest number of antibodies. So, you should do it soon. And that's what serological tests are for: to be able to have more plasma available from people who have antibodies. The Ministry must strive as soon as possible to promote plasma care throughout the territory and to create a national plasma bank able to manage the requests that will come from all the regions; common sense demands, useful not to lower the guard and to make us find ready for what we do not wish to return. Nothing miraculous, but, waiting for science and research to take the path to the development of the vaccine, we have a duty to make available to citizens all the effective and valid tools that, together with others, will allow us to deal with and overcome this epidemic in the best way possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u19	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have presented the motions today and have illustrated them. The emergency caught us unprepared. I have heard a lot of criticism of the fact that there is no plasma bank, that there are no remedies, that there are no certainties. Unfortunately, that's when something comes that you don't know, that we only learned to know in February. We have been far too good, as Italians, to face this emergency; an emergency that - let us remember - is above all Lombardy. And, if we really have to track down someone who is badly run - alas - we have to be silent about the President of the Lombardy region. So let us leave the scientists and doctors who have done their work, the nurses who have sacrificed themselves, and also the parliamentary committees which have met, despite everything, and have presented the motions before us today. I found interesting elements in all the motions. Therefore, I hope that there will be a single motion, because everyone has analysed the problem in depth, not only the majority but also the opposition. Let's remember that the swabs - alas - only photograph the situation of the moment. So it doesn't make much sense to extend to all the very expensive swabs that require so many reagents that are hard to find. Therefore, the strategy of the so-called three Ts, which, by the way, is mentioned in almost all motions, is fine. As far as serological tests are concerned, it is clear that they can only have a study value. There is no evidence that high levels of immunoglobulins are neutralising; there is no evidence of the duration of immunoglobulins nor is there evidence that they can be effective in the case of the return of a virus that could also be mutated. Therefore, the serological analysis that everyone proposes has a scientific value. It has absolutely no phase 2 or phase 3 or immunological licence value, because no one can use this data to tell a person whether or not to use personal protective equipment. So let us welcome the invitation of many motions to include both protocols and personal protective equipment. I would have liked to have tabled an agenda on another subject. I am referring in particular to the fact that we often forget where this epidemic came from, i.e. from a relationship that I would say insane between the way we feed, with the slaughter of animals and the promiscuity between wild and non-wild species. So, we tend to remove the fact that there is a cause for all of this, and maybe some living conditions should change it. My agenda focused in particular on the fact that the major outbreaks are taking place in many meat slaughter centres and animal waste treatment centres. And they are not small outbreaks: they have brought meat production to their knees in the United States; they are large outbreaks in Germany that put operators and users in difficulty, and there have also been cases in Italy. So what I was proposing on my agenda, which I shall present in any case in some measure and which I have also tabled in the form of a question, is to collect data. In fact, what we lack, beyond the serological tests, so the data that we propose to collect, are the previous data, that is the aggregation of the sick people according to the work they did, for example. We do not know how many operators of the large-scale distribution have become ill and how many of these had to do with slaughter or cold chains. Let's be clear now: there is no danger in meat consumption, but it is clear that if we check from the data that the operators of this sector get sick, the hypothesis is three: or again it is a matrix that we do not understand where the virus comes from or it is the chains of the cold or the conditions of the work. To know all this, we need the data. I conclude by saying that I hope that this Parliament will approve a single motion unanimously because it is a subject which must unite and not divide. Let us not forget, however, to change our life habits so that certain situations do not recur and to analyze why they have occurred and if they could happen again in the future. I will be in the Committee on Health because I have presented the agenda and I therefore urge us to take an urgent interest in this matter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u21	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are dealing with the subject of serological tests that have now entered the common language of all of us, given the delicate moment that unfortunately we are living. My speech is aimed mainly at those who listen to us from home, to the people. So let's start to distinguish the means we have to understand if a person has contracted the virus, and so far we find molecular tests, what we commonly call swabs, which identify the presence of the virus in a certain and instant way. Then, there are serological tests, which show if you've come into contact with the virus and then if we've developed antibodies. Finally, rapid sting tests, which are rapidly commercialized, but not so accurate and not capable of providing reliable diagnosis. All the motions that are being treated today aim to identify the criteria to be followed to track, test and treat patients as soon as possible. Some report what the Government is already doing; others dwell on one aspect rather than another, but they are all projected into the reopening phase. You realize that, don't you? - that this is an opening already almost totally initiated? Given that the matter concerns all citizens, what do you think - members of the Government - of the opportunity to involve Parliament before the reopening of activities? It reminds me of that saying: to close the stable when the oxen have escaped, who knows why. [[Applause.]] Does it seem appropriate to involve Parliament only after the decisions have already been taken, as will be the case with the serological investigation, which has already begun? I wonder if this is constitutional. What's this? Fake democracy? Simply tell the truth: it is less complicated and more dignified. The truth is, you're not interested in arguing in legitimate organs. You know that, don't you? - that you will take full responsibility for your choices with your technical committees? Let me now turn to the speaking exercises. My intention is to highlight the differences between the position of the League and the others, although meritorious to be heard and evaluated given the peculiarity of the moment that involves everyone. To date, swabs, the most reliable tool of all, serve the deficiency of reagents; but does it seem normal to you? Luckily, we have a scientific committee that thinks for us, don't we? Serological tests are only useful if performed in certain time periods; they tell us whether individuals have been infected with the virus through the immune response, but there is still no scientific evidence whether antibodies can be considered effective in neutralizing the virus or not. Luckily, we still have the Scientific Committee, right? Quick tests have the advantage of providing a response through a drop of blood, but many of the tests on the market do not appear to be so reliable. Italians need to reopen safely and to be ready to avoid damage in case of relapse in the epidemic. Is that clear to you? Benedict Scientific Committee, do you want to evaluate a national emergency power station that allows by means of a general plan to monitor and monitor the development of the epidemic by activating the Civil Protection of all the Regions? It has been shown that validated molecular and serological tests developed in accredited public and private laboratories are an appropriate response and, then, why have you not yet foreseen the establishment of validated extensive dissemination screenings included in the essential levels of assistance? Perhaps because it would be a more structured answer and it could work? The League wants and calls for the establishment of a power station, the drafting of a national plan, the systematic and timely updating of guidelines and protocols, the inclusion of tests in the essential levels of assistance and the realization of analytical systems that guarantee quality, reliability, least invasiveness possible for patients and that discover immune subjects as donors to enhance plasma therapy with the link of the Regions and the world of volunteering, which cannot be excluded. Among other things, we must also exclude deficiencies in hospital bags and avoid problems in their distribution. This requires the immediate activation of a national immune plasma bank, a 360 degree vision that really takes the problem by the hand, analyzes it seriously and offers solutions for everyone's benefit. By the way, does it seem normal to you the level of bureaucratization of the requirements relating to the sanitization of the environments? I don't want to get hurt, however, because it would be too easy to attack the bureaucracy of this country and there will be precise times to do so. I keep wondering why you haven't thought about how to avoid the confusion that has been reigning for months. All the Italians see it. It can be seen that you and your advisors don't know the real world. Do you or don't you want our country to leave? Allow shopkeepers, restaurateurs and exhibitors to work. We need a few clear, simple and effective rules. ( [[Applause).]] Public health laboratories must be able to face the emergency stages by carrying out tests directly and in everyday life becoming the reference point for companies and workers who need support in order to be able to work safely and not as health police officers. Businesses want certain landmarks to contact with certain lines of action, but it's easier to leave - as you do - every responsibility for employers, isn't it? Right, but that's also what the Scientific Committee says. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u23	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u24	Mr President, for some time now I have been wondering who needs a serological test: whether it serves the individual citizen, whether it serves the administrations and the government to guide health policies, whether it serves to guide economic interests. A number of points need to be clarified. We know that our immune system, when it comes into contact with bacteria or viruses, learns to produce antibodies, which attack and neutralize them. A serological test looks for these antibodies in a person's blood. For a citizen it would be a great relief to know that he is immunized, that he no longer has to fear the coronavirus, that he can go anywhere without fear of infecting or being infected; it would be a real liberation. Many citizens have carried out tests of this kind at their own expense, sometimes paying exorbitant amounts, with unacceptable speculations, but without the results hoped for. Why? Because - it must be said the truth - theoretically even immunized people can, albeit to a much lesser extent, transmit the virus, for example by touching a contaminated surface and shaking the hand of a third person. Therefore, some precautions cannot be abandoned. It should be said that rapid serological tests (so-called stingy tests) have little sensitivity and specificity. I may have developed antibodies, but the test does not detect them and I remain unnecessarily concerned; or, on the contrary, it detects antibodies where there are none: I trust and instead I am not protected. This is the most serious case, the so-called false positives. It must be communicated to citizens that a margin of error is also present with tests carried out with real venous withdrawal and with the most innovative systems, such as immunochemiluminescence. It must also be said to citizens that we do not yet know at what level the presence of immunoglobulins is certain to be immunised; so, even if we find a quantifiable figure, we do not know how that person is actually protected. We do not know - yet - how long this potential immunity will last, so it is possible that today I am well immunized, but that in a time not definable I lose this ability to produce antibodies. It is not I who say this, but Professor Crisanti, who in Veneto was first ostracized and then called, like a novello Cincinnato, to raise the fate of the Region. For all this, it is unfortunately not possible to give to a citizen what has been called a "pathetic" of immunity, certain and stable. But then who and when can the serological tests serve? They may have some usefulness in identifying people who have a high presence of antibodies in plasma, which can then be used for transfusional treatment for the benefit of people who get sick, although we know that the immunoglobulin content in people who are paucisintomatic or asymptomatic is significantly lower, on average, than that of those who have developed a medically treated disease. It is therefore easier to turn to the persons treated and discharged from our health care system, but in any case there can be a utility. There is a usefulness when we have to have an estimate of the overall picture. Today we know that in Italy there are about 235,000 patients currently confirmed, but we also know that people who have contracted the virus without getting sick or perhaps having passed the disease at home, sometimes without being able to receive, unfortunately, a diagnosis, are many more. It would then be essential to know whether two million people have entered into contact with the virus or four or, as some suppose, ten million: it would mean that the actual lethality of the virus in Italy is less than that which can be calculated today, around 14 percent, probably ten, maybe twenty times less. This does not mean that the problem should be underestimated. It's not the Sars, it's not the Mers, but more than 33,000 people have died and we still record - the figure is yesterday - 65 deaths. Having a population prevalence survey would mean knowing how close or far away we are from group immunity, that condition in which the virus, precisely because it finds more and more people immunized, no longer knows where to attack and stops transmitting. For all this the Government has already arranged a research on 150,000 people who will give us direct estimates, specific to our country, with an effective statistical stratification for the different age groups, for the different territories, without having to depend on what is reported to us from other countries. We could then better define our general strategies and perhaps further loosen the constraints to citizens and productive activities, so it is the interest of each of us individually and of all Italy to have this information. Some reluctance to adhere to this research, on the other hand, has emerged and what most grieved me was to see that someone gloated to turn against the government. Here, I say it clearly, they are stupid, also because in their own regions they were announced in a pompous campaign of serological tests. Here I want to open a parenthesis, because it must also be said clearly what a serological test is not needed: it is not necessary to do it down, because the estimation of a phenomenon is not done down, but on a sample, the rest is public money thrown out. Some have proposed screening and someone, moreover, confuses the concept of screening with that of diagnosis, which is even more serious and criminal, because using rapid tests to make diagnosis is criminal precisely because of the high number of false negatives: it means sending home quiet people, who instead have the virus and who can infect others, as happened. The margin of error is unfortunately also with the sampling tests. Things don't go much better even when the serological test detects the positives: even if it does so in all cases in a perfectly correct way - and that's not the case - the test detects the antibodies, not the virus, telling us if the virus has been there, not if it is still there, if the person is sick or in the meantime is healed, because first the antibodies develop, then the healing comes. This means that you will have to do the molecular test - to be obliged at that point - to all the people who will be positive, including those who may have had the virus weeks or months ago and now do not have it anymore and these are useless waste. The only really valid use, therefore, is that for the study of the population, also for territories or specific categories. If the Regions want to have data related to their own reality, it is quite right, but we must use a common method: if one Region uses the X method and another the Y method, how will we compare the data to know where one territory stands compared to another? I see that, on the other hand, many of the tests have thrown themselves into fish, in an inconsultable way, with exemplary samples of waste. I think of the agreement - just rejected sonorously to the regional administrative court - concluded by the Lombardy Region, which has in fact assigned a concession without the necessary opening of a ban, favoring a private one with material and immaterial resources public, making it lose in the while precious time and money to the citizens and entering under the magnifying glass of the Antitrust, the anticorruption and the Court of Auditors. I understand that Lombardy must make a lot of forgiveness on tests, missed by its citizens for weeks and weeks, but let's talk about molecular swabs and finish, Mr President. Even in Veneto something doesn't add up. In February the Region initially opposed the tampons to the citizens returning from China, but fortunately it backed back. The behavior of the Region, which rejected the initiative of ASL of Padua, was criticized by Movimento 5 Stars, who did not get convincing explanations in return, but a complaint - yes - to our regional advisor. Similarly, disciplinary proceedings were requested for an executive in Padua for admitting candidly that Zaia's masks did not serve; then, being the truth, the accusation fell, but one cannot distort the truth for purposes and interests of part. Our motion commits the Government precisely to clarify at the various levels so that there is a general and univocal approach that sweeps away the disordered and suspected race to the tests and puts the Regions in a position to play their fundamental role, when it is of loyal collaboration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u25	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u28	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, we are examining the conditions for the submission of a unitary agenda which summarizes all the motions put forward. I therefore ask you to suspend the work of this House for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u29	I suspend the sitting until 1.50 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.41 a.m. and resumed at 13.55 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u32	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I rise to make the House and the Senators, the Group leaders, who have tabled a unitary agenda and, therefore, have withdrawn all the motions tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for the harmony that has been found in a unitary text which will be useful for research, for the proper use of serological tests, for therapy, for treatment and for saving money. I remember that in health saving means expanding the audience of those who can benefit from a diagnosis or treatment. Therefore, the opinion on the G1 agenda is in favour and of course there is the commitment of the Government to implement everything contained in it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u37	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, health is a fundamental value, a common good, of everyone and today the Senate, with the presentation of a unitary agenda in the field of health, is giving a very important demonstration to citizens and citizens. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reopening and resumption of productive activities since 18 May and the reopening of the borders between the regions have in fact delivered us in stage two of the emergency. We are all with the desire to extinguish fear, the need for prudence for the virus and the desire to share both from a personal and a collective point of view. Public politics must intercept this feeling of the people - not only the Italian one (although there are still differences in the phase of contagion between countries) - and put in place concrete actions of health security for a psychological recovery, taking up again the work, the encounter with the affections and - why not - also the desire for leisure. We cannot fall back into phase one (this is our extreme awareness and the clinical news of doctors are comforting) and we must redesign phase three for the economic, social and occupational revival of our country. We are at a very delicate time and we all feel responsibility. We must start with concrete actions, which are the subject of debate at this sitting. I begin with the theme of swabs, which - as Senator Castellone said very well and in a very competent way - are the only instrument that gives us the certainty of being in contact with the virus. We need greater availability of swabs (I believe that this has also emerged from the debate). We must attack, as the Government is doing, the reagent crisis to have more swabs available, especially for those at risk. I am referring to the structures for the elderly (we know what has happened and still happens in our health care homes) and to those who are elderly who are suffering from Alzheimer's disease or with problems and people with disabilities. I believe that at this delicate stage we must never allow it to happen again. I am referring to the fact that families of people with disabilities have found themselves, from one day to the next, in front of the closure of day centres and semi-dwelling centres, with health workers who no longer went home (or that the same families, for fear of being infected, did not let into their homes). If there had been periodic swabs for social health workers, we would certainly have put in peace many Italian families. Then there are companies, many of which are doing molecular tests and also serological tests. Therefore, the increased availability of swabs must make it quiet compared to workplaces because there must be a synergy between molecular tests and serological tests. If the serological test (IgM) - which many families and many subjects are doing of their own free will - is positive, the family or person is quarantined and the swabs are not always available within 48 hours to calm families, people and companies. The greater availability of molecular tests serves to put in synergy also the serological tests, but many of the senators that have preceded me have already reminded me The serological tests (IgG) show instead - we all know - the amount of antibodies (and here we must be careful and support the investigation of the Government and the Ministry that we will talk about tomorrow). We need to clarify and be aware of the need to transfer clear information to citizens that those tests are not for diagnostic purposes, but are important and useful for understanding the epidemiological state of the virus. We must not leave the citizens alone in the possibility of being properly informed. Finally, we must address a whole range of concrete issues, such as molecular tests and serological tests, attacking in a very strong way the two main issues arising from this very serious crisis. The first is the difference between regions. In spite of the differences, this is a subject that has united us in the debate. On the unitary agenda we also agreed on the need to give guidelines common to all regions, both for serological tests and for swabs, because a Calabrian citizen, like a Venetian citizen, must have certainties. This is essential. The second issue is the need to strengthen territorial medicine, because the WHO's indication to track, test and treat patients early, we can only implement it with a territorial medicine that is close to need and home, because that is the only way we can stay close to people and resume that path of closeness with respect to other diseases. In fact, we need to stop neglecting - as happened in the emergency - patients with heart disease and previous diseases. We need a territorial medicine where there is synergy. A task force of all professions, from doctors, nurses, social workers, can not only diagnose Covid's patients early - and we all hope that they will be less and less - but also treat some pathologies at home. In this way, we make families and people more comfortable. In fact, I believe that at this very delicate stage intensive therapies are a failure of the health system and therefore we must try not to reach the intensive care. Only in this way, only by being close to the citizens with a territorial medicine and home, can we meet the feelings that the people live in this delicate phase: overcoming fear, as I said before, the prudence that we still have to have with respect to the virus and the desire for a rapid economic recovery. Health is a common good and there is nothing more important. I think that from now on, with the unanimous approval of the agenda before us, we can really stay close to our citizens and overcome this very difficult pandemic together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u40	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out some considerations, which are certainly personal, but which I hope can be shared, the first of which is that today we are finally giving shape, for an initiative promoted by the minority, by the opposition - let me say this - to a wish which, during this pandemic, has been proclaimed and affirmed a thousand times, but which then, as we all know, has basically never been implemented. I am referring to the possible collaboration between the majority and the opposition, in order to find subjects of sharing, especially on issues such as the emergency of health, which with the policy declaimed could have really little to do. So, if we want to give ourselves a tone, we can say that we are giving life to this great hope, but until now it has materialized in an absolutely unique way: we all know the history of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. The second point I would like to make is that we are bringing a subject to the attention, which I believe is fundamental, regardless of the emergency. In fact, I believe that the health of citizens is always a central issue for politics, but all the more so now, in the midst of an emergency, it is important that we are finally bringing back the issue of the health emergency to the debate of the Senate Assembly of the Republic. Not that we have never talked about this emergency, but we certainly do it today, taking the target with a shared act, which to some extent makes the difference, because it restores the rules of the game, with Parliament identifying paths and giving a vision and the Executive that shares the commitments and promises to implement them. When it works, the game of institutions is this and not vice versa. On the other hand, I am afraid that, until now, it has been mainly vice versa. The third consideration is that we have brought back to earth a discussion that seemed to take place on the moon. The themes we have quietly debated today, each with its own positions, but with so many points in common, that if you want then we can list, until now we had to suffer them in talkshows, in statements in media or in favor of camera and in posts on Facebook, therefore everywhere except in the appropriate locations. There was therefore a diorama of more or less justified statements, which produced a great disorientation, not only of the citizen, but also of the institutions: let us think of the fact that the regions were essentially forced to do themselves, without certain and unique guidelines. Therefore the Regions, for example, in the need to carry out a mapping and their own screening, have had to proceed with instruments chosen on the market, referring to the characteristics declared by the supplier. It is therefore a shared act, which basically asks the Government to tell us if there is an instrument useful for screening, what is and how it is possible to identify these blessed subjects who, without having the symptoms, have the viral load and can potentially transmit it. Colleagues, until now the scientific community has pursued and traced the symptom, because it was evidently the easiest thing: if one is ill, he shows up, calls the family doctor and says that he is ill and from there starts the whole chain of investigations. However, we have established - because at least on this finally the scientific community says one thing - that a large part (I don't know if it is the majority, but someone speaks of 80 percent, someone else of at least 60 percent) of those who have viral load on them are without symptoms or are paucisintomatics. Compared to this, if we keep thinking we can only trace the symptom, do you think we're doing the right thing? If instead we ask the Ministry and the entire chain of the scientific community that the Ministry refers to give us an instrument that has the characteristics of availability, ease of use and non-invasiveness, and we give ourselves way and possibility to go to find this virus where it hides, when we go to reopen, is a legitimate request of politics, of the institution, or not? Compared to all this, the Commission has started the path of the deal assigned. I very much appreciated President Collina's proposal, but let us say that for the alchemies of politics (sometimes the streets of hell are paved with good intentions, but they do not go to checkers), we have not been able to close a unitary act, which we have managed to do with this motion and with this agenda. I would say that we all have to take a little bit of credit for it, but if you will allow me - I hope I do not just do a self-affirmation exercise, also because the motion is at my first signature, but it was signed by the whole of the Brothers of Italy Group - it is quite unusual, colleagues, that we are talking about this issue this morning because there was a motion scheduled by the Brothers of Italy and then of course to follow by all the other Groups. This, if you will allow me, would not be the task of the opposition and also the instrument of the motion is a typical instrument of the opposition, because the government, makes the laws and if it approves them, having the numbers to do so. Today, therefore, we implement that famous invitation to cooperate, but we do so thanks to the opposition. I wanted to point out this, of course, that we are happy to do so, this is the first time that has happened, but it would be appropriate for us to exchange this good will from here on out. It's like when we used to play kids' games when we were kids and we used to say, "Once to you, once to me": we start to exchange this good will, for example, we don't choke all the debates on all the topics that come to this House, we allow a minimum of debate in the Commission, you don't force us to always approve with the imposition of the question of trust every act that you bring to Parliament, otherwise we really feel like supermobiles. We believe that we have done as much as we could with this act, the commitments are real commitments, I thank the Undersecretary Sileri, who confirmed - if necessary - that the Government will implement the commitments made, moreover unanimously by the Assembly of the Senate, as it is quite obvious that this will happen. We expect - and we will be very punctual to remind you - that the Government will make available to the regions and peripheral health structures the tools necessary to carry out a widespread and rapid screening of the Italian population in order to identify the presence of the virus. Everything else is necessary to make this path in the best way. On this we of the Brothers of Italy Group will be very careful, we will make a lot of agenda. Colleagues, I am pleased with what we have done, and I am especially grateful to Senator Castellone, who has helped us to achieve this objective and to the President of the Collina Commission. I hope that we will be able to respond to other issues and other topics in a different season. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u43	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I shall be very brief. I consider a positive and important fact the unitary agenda that we are going to approve and the willingness of the Government. I have no difficulty in recognizing to the opposition, first of all to Mr Zaffini, the initiative taken and I think it is useful, to look ahead and, perhaps, also to clear the field of misunderstandings, not wanted by us, but that, in my opinion, in the debate of the country - let me say it this way - there are. We all agree and believe that the so-called phase 2, then phase 3 (to me, frankly, does not really convince this mechanism, but so it has passed), have to deal objectively with the coexistence for a period with the virus. What is the important element of this agenda for me? One is to clarify well what we are talking about: one thing is molecular tests, one thing is serological tests. From this point of view it is good, as some Members have said and I have appreciated it, that it is increasingly clear to citizens what we are talking about. This is to prevent someone from, for example, imagining that they are doing the serological test, being quiet and not having the virus, because we know that, objectively, this is not the case. From this point of view, I say this to the Government in a completely constructive way, the other fundamental element is that on these issues there are precise choices to which, together with all the Regions, reference is made. Let us not hide that, for example, on serological tests there have been positions and trials, let me say it in this way, different. This is not useful to give citizens the certainty they need. Mr Vice-Minister, I am well aware that the scientific debate has its own richness and full autonomy. At some point, however, it is necessary to establish that politics decides what are the areas, strategies and guidelines to which it adheres until proven otherwise, in order to avoid that among public opinion it turns all kinds of news: even fake news and even totally unfounded information. Therefore, from this point of view, this agenda is very useful because for me it means, Senator Zaffini, that we all try to make this effort to communicate and represent reality. The third important point is that there are validations. The validations must be there. If the stinged test does not give guarantees, let's say so; we wait, when it arrives, for the other test. I don't know if I can explain myself. It is not necessary - I tell all of us - just to say something or to do something, to choose this or that solution. You don't have to. It is necessary that the solution that we indicate from the epidemiological point of view has a foundation and is recognizable in all the Regions. It has nothing to do with regional autonomy from this point of view; absolutely nothing. And I hope that the Presidents of the Regions - indeed, I am convinced, I want to be convinced - will also feel the same way. We are faced with a phase that will still be medium-long, and we need certainties, those that we can have - I don't know if I can explain myself - but those must be certainties, and we must build a path that can make us understand the epidemiological level, from the point of view of the coronavirus, that has involved our country. From this point of view, I do not think it is necessary - as one Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars said - to take serological tests on all citizens. I think that if the dynamics assumed with the decree-law that we will discuss tomorrow and the sample made by ISTAT are correct, we can finally have an answer of the epidemiological dynamics, not of the punctual dynamics. Then, knowing how to read this dynamic, we can build strategies. I shall conclude by addressing you, Undersecretary. The Commission has done an important job with the deal assigned. I believe that in this dramatic affair - let us never forget the by now 34,000 deaths; there are so many, so many, too many, let's face it - there is an opportunity today. We understand the value of the National Health Service. It is an important fact because it was not obvious, but now we must think of a refoundation of that system, which cannot take place only on the very positive and important effort that Minister Hope, you and the whole Government on the resource side. The governance of the system needs to be redesigned. We cannot talk about territorial medicine and home medicine without redesigning governance. And this does not stain leopard, but in Italy, because, if, as far as the hospital organization is concerned, there is a facility, just as there must be for territorial medicine and home. This could represent a leap in strategic quality for a great common good that is indispensable as the national health system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u46	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretary Sileri, we must say that the containment measures implemented by our Italian Government, not without controversy, have nevertheless allowed - and we must make this clear - that from 18 May, first, and from 3 June, then, in Italy, restrictions on the movement of Italians were relaxed, within their own borders and within regional ones. So, the whole country has had some sort of liberalisation. They have allowed the reboot of the economic and productive fabric, albeit with so much attention and caution from all and have begun to spread a little'more trust. We felt a little'smoother; not definitely, but a little'smoother. (Translated with Google Translate) Finally, then, we started reprogramming our future back to almost normal. We can certainly say that this has been a difficult time and a new situation for us. We learned first about the virus and then the disease, but without having any certainty about what was happening around it. We've seen so many experts say things that have then taken back. This whole situation has led us to considerably complicate the situation. Thank God the data of the contagions and victims in recent weeks are very encouraging and, therefore, we must think that we have come almost definitively out of the emergency. We must not, however, make the grave mistake of thinking that the virus is no longer there. That is not the case; unfortunately the virus is still among us and the proof is the new outbreak here in Rome. This shows that we have to be very careful: it is subtle and can affect us in a subtle way. Social distancing measures are important, as are the use of the mask and washing hands continuously. They were important because Italian citizens were good and they really put into practice everything that the Ministry has always said. There has never been any uncertainty about these things. I would like to remind you once again of the extraordinary capacity of our national health system. We must continue to be vigilant in order to prevent new waves of worsening immediately, making ourselves ready to face every new emergency. The past three months, which seem to be years spent in this emergency, have taught us how to act both in errors and criticalities and from there we have to learn. The World Health Organization (WHO) has told us that we must have three priority actions: to track, test and treat patients early: we must treat them immediately, as soon as the symptom emerges and, above all, keep them in their homes to avoid everything that has happened - I must not tell you because we have had really distressing images - waiting for a vaccine that really can help us and an effective drug therapy that can help us get out of this emergency. We have said that we need to track, quickly identify cases, strengthen testing with new high-specialization methods with a great sensitivity - we have seen that there are conflicting data on this too - to ascertain immediately the presence of the virus where it is located. On 25 May - we also discussed it in the Commission - the seroprevalence survey started with a little difficulty, because the citizens are - as I said - still a little disbelieving about this. It is, however, a very important investigation. It was done with the Ministry of Health together with ISTAT, which of course is very much understood by statistics. For the survey, therefore, 150,000 citizens were identified on the basis of sex, age and type of work. Not all work activities have the same problems and the same level of risk. The investigation will serve to have an epidemiology of the country and will have to represent a photograph of the state of spread of the virus in this specific historical moment with the epidemiological wave that we have had. It is therefore essential to have as comprehensive a picture as possible of the needs of molecular tests both to manage the subsequent phases and to support the serological investigation, because from this investigation people may emerge who need to do the molecular test, which we have said to be at this time the only more certain that there is to understand if the virus is in place. There is therefore a need for cooperation between the parties to carry out the tests, both serologically and molecularly, in order to prove whether or not the virus is positive. I really must thank all my colleagues, Senator Castellone, who was the first signatory to this motion, but also Senator Zaffini, the entire Health Commission and the Government, here with Secretary Sileri, for having managed to share unique commitments to be made to the Government. These commitments are useful in order to make us understand how to deal systematically with any emergencies that will arise, to overcome the critical issues that emerged during the pandemic, thus avoiding further and solo escapes of some Regions, that as we have seen have not even produced the results that had been given, and to reassure - in respect of regional autonomy, for God's sake - all health workers with certain rules and uniform data. It is therefore necessary to provide for a single platform, as proposed in the commitments, in order to collect data in such a way as to compare them all together, because only with comparison will we be able to obtain official information. It is also necessary to ensure, as I said before, the availability of rapid molecular tests in places where there are greater fragility, therefore in places of care, in health care residences, in places where there are people with important fragility. The economic crisis that we have seen as a result of the health emergency must lead us to find certain health solutions, in order to avoid a new one, which could result from a possible further wave of the epidemic. These are important issues, which we have all dealt with together, when we discussed a motion in the Health Commission, with which we had the opportunity to hold hearings which really allowed us to reflect on what policy should do. Today, with this united motion, we have realized that we really need to find a common thread with all the operators, with all the actors, in order to find a solution for our citizens. That is what the citizens expect of us in this place, in this Parliament, and that is what we return, as a commitment made by the Government. I therefore declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u49	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, what I think is more interesting than this initiative of ours today is the fact that we have brought back within Parliament - and particularly within the Commission's competence - the 12th Commission - a strong and clear reflection, which we would have liked to have been upstream of a number of decisions taken. No one escapes the fact that today we will vote unanimously on this motion on serological tests, when we actually know that serological tests have already started as a result of the initiative taken by the Government, as it was recalled before, in agreement with the Higher Institute of Health, which has established the modalities to form the sample, and in agreement with the Red Cross, which in fact challenges citizens and carries out tests. We have suffered a great deal in this parliamentary term. We are objectively in the middle of the legislature and none of us has any clarity as to how long it will last. We have certainly suffered very often from the idea that Parliament was not central to decision-making. On the other hand, there has been a run-up to the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, of which - for the sake of the Fatherland - I do not make the list, even if I like to emphasize the total, absolute lack of imagination, because each of them had a similar title: Emergency measures to deal with the epidemiological emergency of 25 March; Emergency measures in the field of containment and management of the epidemiological emergency (April 26); "Further urgent measures to address the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19" (May 16th). Each of the successive decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers had the same term, the same... PRESIDENT. I would kindly ask colleagues who are next to Senator Binetti to sit down. Thank you. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). This is to demonstrate how the Government - concretely in the person of the President of the Council and specifically through the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is in his hands - has made this the pivot around which he has turned all the activity, having as strong external consultants the technical-scientific commission, before, and now the committee Colao, and I want to understand how it will be put with the document published just yesterday with the general states of the economy that will start tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. We experienced this period of time with a constant tension in trying to understand who had to decide what and who had to express an opinion that preceded the operation, while today we know very well that it was easy to arrive at a unified decision on the scientific level, the valorization, as well as the operational choices to make simply because the instrument, the machine, the gear in some way have already started to move. Today's attempt, which was born on the initiative of my colleague Zaffini and therefore on the initiative of the opposition, actually seeks to identify concrete spaces to say: "Sirs, we're there too, we're thinking subjects, we're competent subjects." The 12th Commission is largely made up of doctors and researchers, people who therefore stand on the track, as they say in jargon. In our little one we represent a technical-scientific committee: the studies made say it, the professional experiences carried out, says it, the political passion with which we try to sum up the technical-scientific competence and the political one intended as a fallback on the country of the decisions that will be assumed. Today, therefore, has a little this value and the fact that this value is marked by the seal of unity also shows that Parliament is able to face the political challenges that are presented to it, knowing each time what is really useful for the good of the citizens and of the country. We are not so foolish as to transform differences or even legitimate differences of opinion into strategically conflicting positions, but we are able to go beyond our differences of thought, beyond our conflicts - sometimes even beyond personal ones - to compose the vision of the whole, the trend towards which the country must go. The fact that the Undersecretary Sileri has previously occupied the role of President of the 12th The Commission has also delegated its relations with Parliament on all these issues - which we particularly welcome - because this facilitates unity of intent. Starting from this point of view, we are also convinced that from this new unity and this rediscovered centrality can also arise very simple and clear indications for the country. It has happened to me these days to try to explain to some people the famous logic of the three Ts of the WHO (tracking, testing, treating) and to speak, on the one hand, of the molecular tests, those that largely went under the name of swabs, so I determine whether the current subject is affected by the pathology or not, and, on the other hand, of the serological tests, those that allow us instead to understand if there was disease and how the organism reacted and that provide us, above all, the formidable data of the rate of antibodies present in the body, an extraordinary data to which, thanks also to the contribution of many scientists, we can draw, imagining to treat patients with plasma of those who have been infected and who have healed having produced antibodies. You understand the importance of keeping these three phases together: understanding who is sick and who is not, whether there are healthy carriers or asymptomatic patients, or whether there are patients who in some way already express their pathology, because from this point of view the clinic meets us with more than comprehensive answers. However, it would be important to be able to say to the sick, to those who in some way have suffered even the most virulent attack - I say literally - by this virus, that they are able to be the patient cure, the patient medication, just for what they have suffered, that somehow in them has left a trace also as we have heard in these days in many testimonies, namely the pain, discomfort, confusion, the fear of dying, the feeling of being tossed without knowing where to go; that is, it would be important to tell those who have suffered so much that at this moment are the most precious treasure we have and are also biologically, because from them we can extract that plasma whose hyperconcentration of antibodies allows to cure other people. You understand how the circle can be closed in an effective communication, which tells the person that it is not only the unfortunate who has suffered the attack, but at this moment it is the most valuable element of the National Health System because it is the one who is destined, precisely for suffering, to cure other people. If you want, this also gives a dimension of meaning, meaning to the sick: my illness was not useless, I'm not just lucky because I survived, I'm even luckier because, having survived, I can pull out of their difficulties many other people. That is why we have insisted that - no one is hiding - each of these things be the subject of scientific debate; it is not by chance that in the first place of the commitments shared by all there is to be sure that the vaccine that will be administered meets the objectives that we will propose, as we want to be sure that the plasma I am taking will be effective. However, as we have learned thanks also to the infinity of the nonsense that has happened to us to hear on television, with the obsessiveness with which television has continually sent us the messages, the virologists - just to say one - do not agree at all with each other, but very often they are not even with themselves. We know that science is not a dogma, but it is a constantly evolving reality and this also makes it necessary to implement the scientific training that our students receive at school, in high schools, in vocational schools and later in universities. I would therefore like to thank my colleagues for this operation, and I hope that it will be simply a bridge to resume working with unity, cooperation and effectiveness. [[Applause.]] 14.41 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u52	CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have listened carefully to everything that has been discussed on this subject and, perhaps because I have worked on it, I believe that our motion, No 242, would have deserved a different and not preconceived assessment than that given by the Government, both for its completeness and for its systematicity, not only because there are not only many of the contents of the other motions in combination, but because it takes into account the real needs of our health system to prevent and deal with emergencies such as that of the Covid-19. This precondition is not only necessary to restart the economy, but to speed up the process of normalization of waiting lists for all the diseases that have been suspended in this emergency phase that, if not addressed with an extraordinary program of decisive measures, dedicated and controlled in the jobs, as we have already proposed unheard in 12a. The Commission is in danger of creating an emergency, with staff exhausted for months of struggle and recently accompanied by new recruits who, although talented, in turn would need assistance, obviously formative. From here, to give just one example, our proposal to use the skills and knowledge of those who have retired in the last three years and can be recruited on a voluntary basis with ad hoc, time-based contracts that do not harm acquired pension rights; contracts qualified by the role of senior tutor of young levers. They say that "every cockroach is beautiful' to mom soja" and so I could be silent to give a biased opinion, but I invite you to reflect, because some things are split from others, for example the serological tests not supported by swabs, the plasma therapy split by investigations on asymptomatic and paucisintomatics, determining, among other things, the consistency of the appropriate eligible offer of potential donors. In a word, prevention, which does not rhyme with billing, as I often say, must be strengthened and integrated. [[Applause]] In and out of the hospital, 360 degrees, investing finally and structurally on the non-occurrence of events. Here, these are all critical issues that must be addressed by the Government not with good intentions, but now committing itself to certain, timely and rapid answers. [[Applause]] Just as the enhancement of the Centre for Disease Control means not to throw away the child with dirty water, because in our institutions there are already flourishing structures and professionalism that need precise political guidelines to give adequate answers. In the same way we have a long list of essential levels of assistance widely disregarded by the classic barrel download. Moreover, on the prevention side, the data have not been up to date for a long time, just as it was for the anti-pandemic plan. Well, the importance of screening in public health and hygiene is to have reliable data so that the most relevant and right decisions can be taken by those who are involved in them. [[Applause]] It is therefore best to protect the health of citizens in the fight against communicable diseases. This case, too, is no exception: an unacceptable delay. Hence the call to the Government on commitments that can no longer be postponed. In the 12th Commission there was a constructive path to overcome, once and for all, the critical problems of the emergency and the structural criticalities of our health system; a path that today has found a very partial synthesis attempt, although appreciable in the method, having its cornerstone in dialogue and in respect of the different sensitivities, never separated from relevant issues the discussion. It is for all these reasons that, having taken note of the willingness to bring back, even at the very least, our commitments on a unitary agenda, we declare ourselves available to a vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u55	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions presented and discussed today clearly tell us that we all have a clear understanding of the dangers of the Sars-Cov-2, and we know that the comforting data in our country on the contagions and mortality of the last few weeks must not make us lower our guard. The virus is no less aggressive and the number of infected and dead in other parts of the planet tells us clearly: about 100,000 infected a day in the last ten days. It is we who have put in place measures that have drastically reduced its circulation and are able to treat it better and more quickly. The measures taken have protected the population and given us time to structure ourselves to deal with a possible second wave, which, of course, is not said to be there, and indeed we all hope that it will not be there. The so-called three-T system (tracking, testing and treating) has been enhanced and refined. The unitary vote we are about to express shows how important we all think that an effective tracking phase, enhanced also by the Immuni app (which is being tested for full operation in four regions, but is already active throughout the national territory), is followed by an equally effective test strategy, in order to ensure the performance of daily activities in maximum security. The tests are the subject of these motions and of the unitary agenda. Since the beginning of the epidemic we have heard of swabs and, more recently, serological tests, but it must be clear that these tests are not interchangeable: one does not apply to the other. As has already been explained, only the buffer or however a molecular test that detects, by amplification, the presence of the viral genome in the organism can tell us if we are currently infected and therefore contagious and therefore we must stay in isolation and monitor, in order to act promptly in the eventual worsening of the physical conditions. The so-called serological tests cannot do this kind of diagnosis, but they can only tell us, with different degrees of sensitivity and accuracy, if we have developed antibodies of type IgM, and therefore most likely we still have the infection in progress, or IgG, and therefore probably, but not sure, we are already cured of the infection. What follows? If I'm positive for IgM, I need to take a swab to confirm that I still have the infection in place and I'm contagious, so I have to be in isolation and with health surveillance. On the other hand, if I'm positive for IgG, I still have to swab to confirm that the infection has passed long ago, in the meantime I'm now negative for the molecular test and so I don't have to be in isolation anymore. But I could still be positive for the molecular test, so I'm gonna have to be in solitary and with health surveillance. What if I'm negative for the serological test? I have the same chance as anyone else to get sick, so I have to use all the precautions: social distance and mask. Being in the company of a negative colleague to the serological test like me does not mean that we cannot infect each other, because I may have contracted the virus, be infectious and infect others, but have not yet developed the antibodies in sufficient quantity to be detected by the serological test. Furthermore, not all serological tests are equally accurate. Very much so are those who carry out with a withdrawal and much, much less so-called stinged ones. This means that with these quick, but unreliable tests, we risk having more damage than benefits, because a false negative could actually be infected and contagious, going around convinced that it is not and possibly infecting a family member. On the contrary, a false positive may not actually be such and take unwise behavior, putting at risk one's own health and, consequently, that of one's loved ones. For this reason, we need to be very careful, and that is why we commit the Government to making the reliability of this kind of test very clear. We also ask that all the results of the various tests be collected in a national database that allows to have a large number of data and information, useful to make more effective evaluations and to have a photograph of the state of health of our country and/or our regions as accurate as possible, so that every decision is supported by more precise and reliable data. A database that can also serve to identify potential plasma donors: that hyperimmune plasma that could be very useful in saving lives in case of the outbreak and that, therefore, we could collect in advance in a national hyperimmune plasma bank. Therefore - and I am beginning to conclude - the political assessments, in this case in particular, can only be derived from clear technical indications and not from the drives that come in the wake of solitary actions not supported by scientific evidence. In fact, never before is it evident the need for uniformity of rules and actions throughout the national territory in the field of health in general and in particular on the strategies to be adopted at this time. I agree with Mr Errani that governance needs to be reviewed. Diagnosis methods must be the same everywhere; it must be clear to everyone what the value of the different types of tests is. Anywhere, a positive serological test or an alert received from the Immuni app must follow the molecular test very quickly. We spent about two months in lockdown and no one is now willing to give up the lightness of the freedom found. It is our duty to give quick answers at this stage so as not to risk potentially infected people going around and not to force healthy people to stay home for no reason. This is our great challenge at this stage and this is the main commitment that we ask the Government with the agenda under consideration, a commitment that we are certain the Ministry of Health will be able to fulfil. For these reasons, the vote of the Movimento 5 Stars will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u56	Colleagues, we are discussing serological tests for the Covid-19 virus and never like today there is a lack of respect for the seats in this House that are forbidden. I remember that, in order to allow the distance, in some places it is forbidden to sit, as indicated by the appropriate signs. Will we please get away from each other? I beg the quaestor senators to intervene to enforce the distance. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Zaffini, Siclari, Castellone, Cantù and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u57	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00194 (text 3), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, 1-00198, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, 1-00199, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators, and 1-00244, presented by Senator Briziarelli and other senators, on initiatives to address the climate emergency. I call Senator Ferrazzi to explain motion No 194 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u58	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I will say a few words and express some key concepts relating to a very articulated motion; a majority report on an absolutely extraordinary issue, such as the environmental and climate emergency at national and, of course, at European level and, consequently, all the initiatives that we absolutely must take. As I said earlier, Mr President, my presentation will be very brief, but in motion 194 (text 3), which is very articulated, 22 points will be clarified, ranging from a general approach and the need to raise this new concept, which is the principle of environmental protection and sustainable development, even at the level of constitutional standard, including it in the Constitution, to the inclusion of all the new legislation relating to the circular economy. I would like to remind everyone that it is precisely in the Environment Commission that work is under way in recent weeks to incorporate with observations the schemes for the new European directives, ranging from waste to the whole recycling system, used vehicles and so on. Then there are the themes of design, land use, urban regeneration; innovation and investment in innovation and research; the theme of energy efficiency in all sectors; the theme of infrastructure and then, finally, the issue of SADs to be transformed into SAFs, i.e. environmentally favourable subsidies. [[Brusio]] Mr President, if possible, I would ask my colleagues for some silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u59	Colleagues, please, those who are not interested may also go out.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u60	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). According to the European Environment Agency, if the temperature were to rise by 2 degrees Celsius, the damage would be estimated at EUR 120 billion per year. In the event of an increase of three degrees Celsius, the damage would rise to EUR 200 billion per year. This is because, as they are already happening, floods, droughts and heat waves would occur and the level of hands would rise, the average temperature of the sea rising with the increase of the salt wedge, the spread of epidemics, as already proven at the international scientific level, and the exponential growth of climate migrants. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the World Bank's report on climate and migration estimates 14,300,000 citizens of the world, those who by 2050 will have to leave their country for reasons related to climate change. It is a lot more people than those who will be forced to leave their country for other reasons, for example for reasons of war. The IPCC, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has established on the basis of objective data, empirical studies and multidisciplinary insights, which are now close to the so-called point of no return. Attention: there are those who claim that this point of no return does not actually exist or would not be in existence, as in the history of our planet there has been a concentration of climate-altering gases even worse than the one in existence today. This is certainly true, Mr President, but those who say this omit a decisive detail: there has been a greater concentration of pollution, at a time when there was no human life on Earth, but today we have the greatest concentration of climate-altering gases since man's appearance on Earth and an increase in the average temperature, as never before seen in the history of humanity. I wanted to highlight these figures and quantitative values, because a debate is still under way, in an astonishing way, between sceptics, well-others and neo-honegationists, who tend at least to evade a sound and in-depth discussion on this issue. These are the figures and the total phenomena we are talking about not only concern the tropical countries, of South-East Asia or those historically high drought, like the African countries, but they concern, as is known and witnessed also by recent chronicles, Europe and our country. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of an environmental and climate emergency. With our motion we recognise this and take a next step, saying that, in the face of this recognition, it is absolutely necessary to implement immediately all policies of mitigation and adaptation, in order to reverse this situation. Some passages are essential to get out of this emergency situation, the first of which is the abandonment of any silly ideology and the awareness that a recovery and sustainability plan is based on three pillars of sustainability. There is the pillar of environmental sustainability and there is that of social sustainability. We have already seen, also in countries close to us, that interesting and intelligent policies, which looked to the future of the country, as in France, have caused, with reference to compatibility and environmental sustainability, reactions not manageable from the social point of view. It is therefore quite clear that all this must be kept together and not by chance the European Union states that, in the great green transformation plan of the economy, EUR 100 billion must be allocated to what is called the right transition, in order to accompany the processes of social transformation, work and production, at a time when such a path is being undertaken, which is absolutely necessary. Then, of course, another pillar is essential, like the second leg of a table that if it doesn't have at least three legs doesn't stand, and it's the economic one. Beware that the private sector has already understood this: at the New York Climate Conference last September the major banking groups signed a commitment to the financing of green business projects, the largest global lenders of all conversion policies today are investment funds and they are at the same time the big insurance companies, because they are and will be paying damages that are more sustainable from their coffers. Now the privates have figured it out, and it's time we all figure it out together. The third step is that the climate emergency has no boundaries. It makes no sense to talk about sovereign policies from the point of view of environmental policies and from the climate point of view, and therefore all the initiatives put in place by the European Commission and the European Parliament must be seen very favourably. The green new deal of January 14 for financing the transition to climate neutrality is a huge and important step. The Next generation plan presented on May 27th, alongside the 750 billion euro recovery instrument, is another fundamental step and, among other things, not by chance within it, the three pillars, has exactly the theme of green transition and digitalization. The last element is that this theme concerns everyone, not just the one or the other political force or the movement of the Fridays for the future of young people. Above all, it's about our children, so if we have to split up we have to do it, if anything, on the individual proposals, in a race to find the best solutions. We must all stand together and this is also an exhortation to the Senate, because life on our planet is at stake. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u61	I call Senator Iannone to explain motion No 198.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate on this issue is an extremely important debate, in the awareness of the correlation between climate change and human action. The temperature of the planet has increased by one centigrade degree from 1860 to today and is estimated to be an additional increase ranging from 1.4 degrees to 5.8 degrees from here to the end of the century. Consider that the increase of two degrees Celsius would generate an uncontrollable domino effect on the equilibrium of the ecosystem. A European strategy for climate change is needed in the most absolute way. The carbon neutrality to be achieved by 2050 is a priority with the promotion of research on technological innovation and the development of natural gas without carbon dioxide emissions, as supported by eminent scientists, such as the lifetime senator Carlo Rubbia, Nobel Prize winner for Physics. The increase in temperature is also evident in the phenomenon of desertification, which already affects a quarter of the land and the dryness of 47 percent of the land emerged. The rise in sea levels from 10 to 25 cm could be as high as 88 cm by 2100, so by the end of this century. This, of course, has enormous repercussions in terms of biodiversity loss and greater spread of disease and food production problems. In this planetary framework, our nation, unfortunately, cannot be said to be better. Many events confirm the serious concerns we all have: landslides, floods, coastal erosion; 29,000 square kilometers of our soil are at risk and about 10 million citizens live in areas at risk; urban settlements and industrial settlements have increased by 500 percent since the post-war period. It is absolutely necessary to avoid the consumption of new soil with the effects inherited from yesterday's industrialization process and, unfortunately, today's deindustrialisation. Furthermore, the health impact of climate change-related events should not be overlooked. The deterioration in air quality resulted in more than 45,000 premature deaths by exposure to PM 2.5 in 2016. Italy, unfortunately, is one of the European nations that marks worse data from this point of view, without considering the proven correlation (and here we come also to the close topicality of the emergency of the coronavirus) between the rise in temperature and the spread of infectious diseases. There is great sensitivity among our young people on environmental issues, yet in Italian schools the teaching of environmental education does not exist. I would like to remind the Minister and the Government that since the beginning of this parliamentary term we have had a draft law for the introduction of environmental education in schools. We believe, in fact, that, in addition to all the right concrete actions, which we ask the Government to put in place through the commitments of our motion, it is important to carry out a cultural action that will create a new sensitivity on the subject of the environment and that it will give the new generations a full awareness of the problem that we live in. Minister, our party, Brothers of Italy, is a party that lives in the conviction of anthropocentric environmentalism. We must preserve our environment, because the environment serves man's life. Our right has a tradition, made of true environmentalism, which is different from archaic and fashion environmentalism, which has produced many conferences, many chatters and few results. For this reason, we, in our motion, which we presented as early as January, ask the Government for 14 commitments, very precise and very serious, in particular for those which are the problems that we all find and live on our territories and which historically await a solution. I have said about air quality; I add the quality of our waters, the problems relating to coastal erosion which, in addition to defacing a unique heritage in the world, are also an opportunity to preserve an extraordinary figure of our tourism and seaside economy, which is appreciated all over the world. Similarly, I refer to the issue of waste disposal. Unfortunately, in too many Italian realities we still mark the step compared to a closure of the cycle; I think first of all of my Region, Campania, which you well know, where the problem of the land of fires is still existing: although there have been important resources available to the Region, nothing has changed in recent years. Through our formulations, we call for a precise commitment from the Government to be able to think about the global problem, but to act concretely at local level. We all have to do our part. Ours are not proposed daughters of an ideological vision, certainly daughters of a political vision, because we are convinced that, if Greta was necessary, not just as necessary are the Gretini who, while having positions of responsibility as the ruling class of this nation, have done little in concrete, if not manifestations that leave only a radical chic flavor. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u63	I call Senator Berutti to explain motion No 199.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u64	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, the Agreement has included elements for a progressive reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions and has, for the first time, been based on common principles valid for all countries without distinction between industrialised and developing countries. One of the main objectives was to steer private and state financial flows towards low-emission greenhouse gas development and improve adaptation capacity to climate change. In particular, the criteria for measuring carbon dioxide emissions and assessing the measures of individual countries have been decided. The European Union has therefore approved the 2030 climate and energy policy framework, which sets out a set of key objectives and action measures for the period 2020-2030. On 8 January 2019 the proposal for an Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate, sent to Brussels by the Ministry of Economic Development, was announced, in consultation with the Ministry of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The plan is structured over five dimensions: decarbonisation, energy efficiency, energy security, internal energy market, research, innovation and competitiveness. The PNIEC shall contain the energy and climate targets that Member States undertake to achieve by 2030. The document should also indicate the policies, measures and their economic coverage through which those objectives are to be achieved. You can take this opportunity to plan investments in large works, such as the high-speed train and the modernisation of the railway network, which increase the competitiveness of the country, bearing in mind the environmental impact of road transport especially with regard to goods. Action is needed for the regeneration of large cities with a view to energy efficiency and the metro-rail network and, therefore, a programme for the management of the waste cycle in synergy between the state and the private sector. In this context, it is essential that Europe's climate transition should be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable and should not, given the global nature of the issue, be excluded from international cooperation involving American and Asian states. A UN climate action summit was held in New York on 23 September 2019 based on actions to be taken in seven fields: transition to renewable energy; financing climate action and carbon pricing; reducing industrial emissions; using nature-based solutions; sustainable cities; local actions and resilience to climate change. The United Nations Climate Change Conference (Cop 25). The priorities set by the Chilean Presidency of Cop 25 were: renewable energy, electro-mobility, green mining, circular economy, oceans, climate-resistant forests and agriculture, sustainable cities and resistant infrastructure and climate finance. Despite the initial good wishes, the summit did not produce the results hoped for by its proposers, so much so that UN President Antonio Guterres said he would be displeased with the outcome of the XXV World Climate Conference. While the countries of Asia, Africa, South America and the developing countries blame the West and the United States for their historical responsibilities in terms of emissions, claiming that they should do much more from the financial point of view to support the most affected, the United States of America has never signed the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and will shortly emerge from the Paris Agreements 2015. Unfortunately, without a real agreement between the United States of America and China - they are respectively the first per capita emitr of carbon dioxide and the first as regards absolute value - it is clear that very little will be done. Europe accounts for only 9 to 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions. In this context, our country has important responsibilities for the years to come and it cannot be hidden that, before interrupting the use of energy derived from fossil sources, a large investment plan should be envisaged aimed at converting plants to a green economy and aiming at new sources of supply. This would probably be a great opportunity to create one of the new pillars of this country's revival. An emblematic example is Sardinia, which has two important coal plants active, one in the north of the island, in the province of Sassari, and the other in the Iglesient Sulcis, in the province of Cagliari. Italy in the coming years will necessarily have to focus on a different energy model more focused on saving, energy efficiency and renewable sources, starting from the generation distributed in small plants fed more and more by renewable energy connected to intelligent network (smart grid) and integrated with efficient storage systems. A coordinated and balanced recycling and heat-to-energy system would allow our country to obtain energy autonomy with obvious benefits for the manufacturing industries, which would see their production cost significantly reduced, and for the final consumers, who would benefit from the finished product at a lower cost. Correct management of the waste cycle can, therefore, retain or attract wealth within a country, thus avoiding transport costs and disposal costs abroad. Furthermore, given that some renewable heat and power can be obtained from waste, further benefits could be obtained. Overcoming the emergency of waste in large urban agglomerations such as Rome and Naples to project itself towards a virtuous and efficient management circuit must be one of the main priorities of a civil country. We therefore call on the Government to undertake to take responsibility among the countries participating in the United Nations climate conferences for the adoption of a code requiring a high level of transparency with strong binding rules for all parties and clear rules that do not unduly penalise the Member States and, in particular, Italy, by reconciling industrial development and ecological choices in order to accurately measure progress and strengthen confidence among the parties involved in the international process. We also call for a commitment to work at European and international level to ensure that every effort is made to reach a true agreement that includes all the countries in which greenhouse gas emissions are greatest; to work to ensure that Europe, on the subject of climate emergency and not only, is united in pursuing its own path, in order to be more incisive in comparison with other countries. We ask the Government to ensure the completion of capacity marketing, aimed at greater diversification of sources of supply, and support to the hydroelectric, renewable and programmable source at the same time; to provide for a public investment plan aimed at promoting a new energy and environmental model, based on the efficiency of energy consumption in construction, industry and transport, through digitalisation of networks, the diffusion of electric mobility, the development of electrical-efficient technologies in residential and the development of renewable sources, through the introduction of tax incentives for citizens and businesses and simplification measures, as well as a plan to support recycling and transformation into waste resources (circular economy). We intend to engage the Government in creating a coordinated and balanced recycling system and in launching a plan for the construction of thermo-toolizers, in order to allow our country to obtain an energy autonomy, with the benefits that would be generated as a result. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u65	I call Senator Briziarelli to explain motion 244.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank the majority for the choice of the motion. Of course we have presented our own, because in fact the one we are discussing - I regret to say this and I am addressing everyone, including myself - is a response to the debate we have already held here in June of last year when we are discussing climate change motions. In the meantime, a government has changed, but in fact - we all have to say - the environmental situation has not changed significantly in our country, nor in the world. As my colleague Mr Ferrazzi said, surely this is one of those issues for which there is no border and this applies in both senses, of course, also in what we impose on ourselves compared to what happens elsewhere. We are often strict with our business and economic system, but we do not realize that reasoning about millimeters, if there are kilometers of problems elsewhere, is useless from our point of view. Being here today has allowed us to present a motion, not in the spirit of contradiction or even in the risk of falling, in the premises, into a contrast between alarmism and negationism, but focusing on those commitments on which we have worked until the last one, filing them and inserting some in the text that I will explain and hand over to the Assembly, in order to make our active contribution. We take up the challenge that most of us are facing. I am not here to follow - on this we agree - the photograph of the premises; I concentrate on the commitments that, as a League Group, we wanted to include in the motion and that we hope can be transposed. The first is a commitment to be concrete: we cannot continue to approve motions, to make announcements and then not give concrete implementation to them. The first commitment that we make to the Government is to approve all those necessary and indispensable measures to give immediate implementation to already existing regulations. I am thinking of the 2019 budget law, in which the geobonus was inserted, of which the implementing decree did not arrive; I am thinking of many other decrees that await, Government after Government, to be implemented. We need greater respect for Parliament, if we consider that in issuing the decree recalling Law No 167 of 2017, on which we are called to comment, the Government has not considered taking into account what Parliament has approved in the law of European delegation, in particular on photovoltaic panels. I believe that there must also be loyal cooperation between the Government and Parliament. We call on the Government to implement the measures announced and in some cases parties, but not yet arrived. In particular, I address the Minister and think of the decrees to save and cantierambiente: for Christ's sake, they cannot remain enunciations. We are ready to cooperate and improve the basic texts, but they must start, and that certainly depends on the organisation that the majority will be given in Parliament as well. The second commitment for the government is not to put itself in terms of happy degrowth: if you have to think about the environment - and this is clear - you have to do so considering it as an economic opportunity, as well as in terms of employment and competitiveness. We must also do so - as I said before - by thinking about the distortions that may affect our economic system in terms of competition, if we ask for the greatest efforts, but then we do not go to work in countries that for obvious reasons, sometimes by choice and sometimes by obligation, still do not take account of environmental aspects. Then there is another topic on which we ask for the commitment of the Government, which may seem of minor importance or only a declaration of intent, but it is not so: we always think about the involvement of citizens, the commitment from below, the involvement of associations, while almost never, unfortunately, are listed among the subjects with which to confront the categories, the enterprises, the universities regarding research, the local authorities and the Regions. Again with regard to the concreteness of the commitments - as my colleague Mr Ferrazzi said, we can divide ourselves on the concrete actions, but not on the objectives to be pursued - we cannot talk about the impact of road transport and the need to act on the fleet and then find ourselves in the condition that currently € 398 million have been allocated to the 38 most polluted Italian cities but we are waiting for the signature of Minister Gualtieri on the interministerial decree: the State-Regions Conference has done what it had to do; Minister Patuanelli and the Minister of Transport have signed them, but Gualtieri still has not. I repeat that there are 38 Italian cities that are waiting, obviously without diversity of color, but unfortunately with a common hood of pollution, to have those resources in order to be able to act on the local transport. It is therefore unnecessary to approve yet another motion today if a signature is blocked EUR 398 million. [[Applause]] Look carefully: we are talking about millions of euros that affect cities, because then we are often busy flying high, making declarations of intent and we are not aware of the individual initiatives we are asking individuals for. This year was the fiftieth year of World Earth Day, which was not by chance dedicated to the climate, but in a particular situation and I like to recall that. In full emergency Covid there was a twenty-four-hour marathon in which individual best practice citizens were advised to take forward to reduce the environmental impact. I would say, however, that it is almost offensive to ask citizens perhaps to use public water, when the mains pipes lose 42.4%, with tips of more than 50% of water dispersion. Similarly, when people say that they are careful to dump the fry oil in the sink and then realize that we are subject to European infringement procedure for hundreds of urban centres not yet connected to the sewage system and still not served by the treatment of waste water, they find in each of the motions a passage on the importance of taking into account the value of water and the need to ensure the service to citizens. In this sense, there must be complete assonance between declarations of intent and choices. On this one of the commitments that we ask the Government is to make its contribution - it is a parliamentary path, but it is undeniable that the Government has a weight - on the issue of soil consumption, as is commonly indicated, that - in our opinion - must become responsible use, with the introduction of the concepts of ecological and environmental budget. In this respect, I cannot question - for example - the use of soil for the doubling of a railway line that could allow the increase of transport on iron and the reduction of that on rubber or, again, the construction of a purification plant, even occupying one or two hectares of land, which would allow, however, to reduce the dumping at sea. In general, we ask that we move beyond declarations of intent which are not in conformity. Moreover, these are issues that are taken into account not only by Parliament but also by the task forces: one of the pillars identified by the 2020-2022 strategy of the task force led by Colao is that of the environment, but to us there seems to be some discrepancy between some positions taken within that document and those found in the motions presented here and in the statements of some of the government's representatives. As I come to the conclusion, I say this because, if we were all to stick to the declarations and not to the concrete facts, we would be called to respond to them in a few months to the year and God does not want us to find ourselves climbing on the mirrors - or worse on the plexiglas - of the ideological contradictions that are all too often found in environmental matters. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u67	I declare the debate open. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u68	Mr President, motion No 194 (text 3) comes late: the European Parliament adopted the resolution on the climate emergency last November in Strasbourg with a view to the Cop 25 Conference in Madrid and in December the House of Members finally declared the climate emergency, six months after the Senate's refusal, with the previous Government, to vote on the statement. The European Parliament called on the Commission to ensure that the legislative and budgetary proposals were fully in line with the objective of limiting global warming to below 1.5 degrees and achieving zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Unfortunately, however, Cop 25 also returned almost everything to Cop 26 next November, hoping that the new events have better prepared the participants. We have been stopped by the Covid-19; that is why we are in quite a delay. However, the health emergency that slowed us down also represented a sure assist to this urgency: it put at the center the need to take note and to declare no longer postponed the putting in the field of actions, in addition to words and commitments without subsequent actions. The Covid-19 put another evidence before our eyes. In addition to the environmental and climatic emergency, which subverts and creates extreme weather phenomena (floods, droughts, heat waves, rising sea level, sinking lands, sinking Venice and the whole North-East); beyond the social and economic impact that causes immigration - it has been calculated that, if there are no effective measures, 143 million people will be forced to leave their lands by 2050 - beyond the direct effects on health, those caused by carbon monoxide, thin particulate matter and dioxins that have caused only in Italy more than 80,000 premature deaths in 2013: beyond all this the pandemic has taught us that there is also a correlation between pollution, climate change and the spread of new mutant viruses, aggressive, capable as never before of making the leap of species and passing from animals, deprived of their habitats (the forests), but also transported to markets from one part of the world, to man; a man weakened by the pollutants and the lifestyle, exposed to chronic inflammations of the respiratory system. Everything seems very clear and simple, obvious. The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tells us that we have a few years to reverse this cycle, otherwise there will be no more time and no more way. However, it is so difficult to impose conditions on European countries and it seems increasingly difficult to see concrete actions in place even by our Government, which also continues to make commitments on paper, in Europe and at national level, but which do not take place except in isolated actions, outside a unitary programmatic plan. However, it is not possible to talk about economy and costs because environmental costs are very high and are known; it is estimated that in Italy - to give just one example - 5 billion have been spent in the last thirty years designing works for the prevention of hydrological risk and over 20 billion, in the same period of time, to repair the damage. So, it's a non-economic issue, but who pays what. In Europe in 2018 113 calamitous events have been recorded that have caused 16 billion euros of losses, over many deaths. The government's paper commitments are there. Point 7 of the government programme provides for the implementation of the green new deal, which would involve a real paradigm change, a true Marshall environmental plan, which cannot be limited to incentives on bikes and ecobonus until the end of 2021. It is necessary to decarbonise, finally activating the table on environmentally harmful subsidies (SAD). We spend 16 billion each year on this subsidy. On this point, the Government has already made a commitment to Parliament, but we also need to revise the National Plan for Climate Change (PNACC), with more ambitious objectives even in the transition phase, abandoning the idea of doing this with gas, because we know the damage it causes, thus reviewing with research systems such as hydrogen, which must no longer be used only as a carrier. We need a stop to soil consumption, which weighs 25% on environmental costs, and we need to restore the habitats of hydrogeological networks, which weigh 24%. We need a large reforestation plan and a massive public investment in sustainable public transport. The principle of sustainable development must also be included in the Constitution. We are losing great opportunities, Minister; we have done so and we are doing so now with the transposition of the circular economy package. We are missing a train with regard - for example - to the extensive responsibility of the producer, because that is where the real circular economy starts. We are also doing so in Parliament that we have been discussing a law on soil for two years, which is not going forward, not least because the government is constantly integrating itself with changes to building standards with decrees. In the meantime, as we said last Thursday, we are pressing for a simplification decree on our neck, which I do not believe will go in the desired direction. It would need an economic-industrial planning for the next ten years for a revival of our country system for the purpose of ecological conversion, on the basis of which to define the strategic sectors for Italy, that there is not in the specific decree and that it is not evident, of course, from the document of the General States of the economy of the task force of Colao, where the environment is equal to infrastructures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u70	Minister, today's motions deal with a very interesting subject for Sardinia, which is energy. As Mr Berutti has already said and will say Mrs Gallone and others who will intervene, Sardinia is particularly concerned about the energy problem, having two coal superpowers that we would like to dispose of. I know that within the motions there is also a consideration regarding the transformation of energy production from alternative energies, but probably also from the methane pipeline that should be carried out in Sardinia. This theme is particularly important to us for its environmental and economic effects: Sardinia pays 400 million per year for energy production, compared to national tariffs, because, since there is no energy continuity, we have a regulation that does not start from ARERA, but that comes from the energy costs of the local network manager. We are particularly interested in the environmental aspect of Porto Torres and Sulcis, but also in the economic aspects related to the theme of energy in Sardinia. I thank you for this brief speech and would ask the Government for a commitment, wherever possible, so that the Sardinian situation finds a happy outlet for energy production and its costs.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u72	Dear colleagues, the scientific community has long highlighted the importance and intensity of climate change, but unfortunately there is still today those who deny this evidence, bringing to support the fact that the climate has changed through geological ages and there have always been climatic fluctuations. Many people adhere to the idea of climate change because it is affected by the increase in extreme phenomena affecting our cities. The main evidence, however, comes from studies on polar caps, where greenhouse gases trapped in air bubbles inside the ice show amounts of carbon dioxide and methane never reached in the last 700,000 years. This process has accelerated enormously with the industrial era, up to the present day. It is one of the most important goals to reach, but also one of the most difficult, because the variables at stake are numerous and concern not only individual states, but the interior planet. Every state has to play its part. But how can states that already have a high per capita wealth ask developing countries to stop their growth? I am not just talking about third world countries. Until twenty years ago, China itself or India were developing countries, to which so-called developed countries brought aid. China, India and many other countries have very different speeds and within them millions of people still live in backward conditions and aspire to improve their standard of living. It is impossible to deny these prerogatives after Western countries have had unbridled development for decades and continue to have it. Unfortunately, among the countries that do not want to intervene there are also those with an advanced economy, such as the United States; taking initiatives that reduce the effects means changing the model of industrial development and this entails high costs. In order to combat climate change, cultural change would be necessary: we should remember at every moment that the planet is interconnected and what we do in one place affects everywhere. The pollution of the Po Valley, for example, is brought by the wind to the south, like the fires resulting from the destruction of the equatorial forest, which induce an increase in the temperature of the planet not only by combustion, but also by the variation of the albedo. Deforestation led to the formation of deserts, which did not exist until 8,000 years ago, i.e. before the advent of the agricultural and pastoral economy. In recent decades neoliberalism has dictated the rules of development, which has almost always manifested itself with the loss of common goods. The individual's profit had no brakes and was hoped for as a solution to the economic problems. Never before do we have to be aware that the deforestation of immense areas of forest - as is happening in a large part of the world to realize monocultures, often directed by the individual multinationals - as well as destroying entire ecosystems, has deadly consequences for the resilience of the entire planet. And again, in these interventions, the neoliberal economy has an immense responsibility. We must be aware that this is a huge task and the younger generations are doing well to remind us to start worrying about climate change. There must be widespread action with determination and speed. The main risk is the melting of ice caps, with an increase in the average sea level of tens of centimeters over a human lifetime. World heritage cities such as Venice and many other coastal cities, the treasure of humanity, will be submerged and destroyed. The other very high risk is that of an even greater increase in extreme hydrometeorological phenomena, with enormous consequences for our cities and infrastructure networks. Then there are many losses that are not secondary, such as the deterioration of air quality, water, rivers and seas. We are therefore called upon to intervene on two levels. First of all, long-term action is needed to slow down the average temperature increase, which provides for the abandonment of fossil fuels for renewable energy as soon as possible. In this regard, I am happy to be a member of a political group which is pursuing policies that have never been seen before in this direction. I hope that the rapid development of technologies will reduce emissions that affect long-term climate change, even if I would like us all to be aware that the time available is extremely short. To mitigate the effects of extreme events, however, we must operate on the territory, intervening on the vulnerability of the structures of the building. We must avoid making the mistakes of the past but, since many mistakes have been made, unfortunately we will have to continue to record for decades catastrophic events associated with extreme events. [[Call the president back.]] Since the time available to me is scarce (I have extended myself), I move on to the most important part. We have built subdimensional bridges, whose section is easily surrounded by a tree. Basically, we live in a fragile territory where we should review the built in the perspective that exceptional events will occur. From this point of view, we should not waste public money on pharaonic works of doubt result, but focus on making our territory resilient, intervening capillaryly. [[Applause.]] We should also change laws, often regional, which lead to increased risk. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u73	Senator Coltorti, I invite you to conclude. He's been talking for seven minutes, even though his time was five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u74	COLTORTI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. Do we want to curb climate change? Let's start with ourselves: let's stop wasting and start giving importance to being, rather than having. Some might observe that our economic development is based on the consumption of more and more goods. Unfortunately, it's true. People must be aware that most of what is produced involves increasing energy and releasing, in one way or another, heat. We must work less, to have more time to live our lives and take care of our own happiness and that of others; to work all, reducing the absurd gap between those who have everything in extreme abundance and those who do not reach the end of the month. Do we want to fight climate change? Let's go back to making current the slogan "Work less, work all"; work for the happiness and joy of all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u75	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u76	Mr President, the examination of environmental motions falls a few days after World Environment Day, a symbolic event that gives even more solemnity to what we are going to say in this House today. Minister, on that day, the focus was mainly on biodiversity, that is, the richness of the environment around us. Protecting and restoring biodiversity means enhancing life and balance in its various forms. For our society to compromise the richness of biological diversity also means increasing the chances of environmental changes coming upon us as a disaster. However, the failure of this diversity also exposes us to the risk of making the same scientific consciousness that we have of the world in which we live more uncertain. In the face of the epidemic that has affected us in research, science and scientific culture are inescapable instruments, of which we certainly cannot help. It is good to remember that these, together with forward-looking policies, are the only instruments that will enable us to look to the future with confidence. The recent dramatic events that - as I said before - have concerned our planet, not least the Covid-19 affair, require us to reflect on the model of development that we have created in these decades, but also on the indispensable link that exists between the balance of nature and our very survival. In particular, the Covid-19 may represent an opportunity to redesign our lifestyle, but to do so clearly requires a certain kind of sensitivity on the part of everyone, also and above all on the part of the institutions. We must be increasingly aware that our actions and patterns of production and consumption also impact on the ecosystem and on adaptation to change. Let us think for a moment if it were true the theory that the diffusion of Covid-19 is linked to pollution levels: we would be faced with a dramatic consequence between industrial development and the effects produced on the environment and we would understand how our choices regarding the productive model can affect the ecosystem and, consequently, on our lives and on ourselves. As I said, there are still no scientific confirmations of this thesis, but just imagine that it can have a small foundation requires us to reflect carefully on the choices that we will take from here on and also on the dramatic moment that unfortunately we are living. This is even more true if we think that in these months we will be faced with the need to choose the best way out of the economic crisis following the health emergency that the country has experienced, is living and unfortunately will still live in the coming months. We must note that an important reflection has been opened in the country and the choices must clearly concern a medium to long period for the restart of Italy and this also means making an explicit commitment to direct the growth model through sustainability and policies capable of rehabilitating our economic system with the environment, to recreate, Minister, a synergy between the economic part and that of the environment. These days there are reports and statements from the Government about what you are going to do in the next few days and therefore about the general states of the economy. I feel obliged to stress at this point that the Government cannot and must not forget the environment in the choices that will be made in the next few days and to appeal for a vision of a sustainable development model. It will also have to be understood - but this will depend very much, Minister, also on its strength - what resources will be devoted to the issue of the environment and we clearly hope that it is not a second-floor objective, but a very first-class one. It is therefore up to the Government to clarify how many and what resources will be allocated to the environment and how the projects and programmes will be sustainable and able to harmonize the needs of our economy, which must return to growth in harmony and in full respect of the environment. I hope that this Commission will be able, in terms of environmentalism, to do more and above all, Minister, to dare more than has been done so far. It's clear that if your answer is plastic tax, we'll tell you right away that we're not there. Unfortunately, especially on the left, a very ideological approach has been preferred in recent years for what concerns the environment and also for the vision of environmentalism as development; a monopoly of environmental issues that has not done well to the same environmentalism, but has made it a ground of political-electoral confrontation. The environment is an issue that concerns everyone and there cannot be an approach of one or the other political side, but it must have the contribution of all political forces, none excluded. The Brothers of Italy Group on this point intends to say its own. Therefore, we must have the courage, as I said before, to innovate, to develop ideas and projects in harmony with the environment, which allow us to create sustainable and modern production systems. This is because it must be clear that the defence of the environment cannot and must not be seen as contrary to development, and we would like the government to be clear about the objectives in environmental terms, which the Colao plan has set. We welcome the fact that the task force has devoted part of the plan to unblocking and accelerating investments in the energy sector and the circular business economy, but we fear that these will unfortunately be - hopefully not, but only the time to prove it - only chapters or paragraphs, good for making some press releases or for some agency launches. Instead, we believe that the government, at the time when it committed itself to outlining a strategy for relaunching and developing this type, cannot relegate it to a second-floor position. So - I repeat - the environment must be put in the foreground and not in the background. We must make strong and serious choices, but not ideological ones, which, as I said before, must be made with the contribution of all political forces. The challenge facing us today is therefore to identify a path to development, which does not run counter to the environment and its protection. Only by putting environmental protection at the top of our priorities will we be able to strengthen our programme, especially with regard to economic recovery. Minister, activating environmental policies also means talking about employment, work, opportunities and development. In Italy, through the leverage of the sustainable economy, focusing on securing infrastructure in areas threatened by hydrological risks and climate change, it is possible to create the conditions to increase employment, thus combining economic recovery with the protection of natural resources. The Brothers of Italy Group is convinced that one cannot be a patriot, without being also defenders of nature and the environment. This is because the country, the land of the fathers, and the environment are very close words and we clearly and forcefully vindicate our identity. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that, in our view, development and respect for the ecosystem are essential. This will depend not only on the future of our economy, but also on the future of our children and grandchildren. Minister, it is time for environmentalism and economics to walk together, that they are not two separate things and that they are not only seen ideologically. So we must put aside what has unfortunately been a negative principle to date, especially of the centre-left. We are here and we hope that the other political forces will also live up to this task. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u77	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u78	Mr President, I would like to try to spend the three minutes at my disposal trying to draw the attention of my colleagues and the Minister present, first of all, to express my personal appreciation for the motion tabled by the majority, which touches on many points that are absolutely acceptable, among which I would like to mention the seventh point of the provision, which speaks of the need for the progressive reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies: we hope this is an initiative that can take place in the shortest possible time, compatible with the country's production needs. There is only one small note, if I may say so, that I would feel that I would make this motion in my conscience, namely the absence of two elements which, in my opinion, are preponderant and extremely topical. I would have added, if I had been available, an explicit reference to renewable hydrogen, i.e. hydrogen obtained from renewable sources, as an instrument - as an energy carrier, in this case - which, within the framework of government commitments, can help - and will certainly do so - to achieve the objectives set out in the commitments that Parliament communicates to the Government, and to the energy communities. These points, Minister, I think are of particular importance. You will know very well and we all know, in fact, that hydrogen has been talking about mobility and other uses for a long time, for decades. The novelty is that the technological development and development of the economies of scale in the planetary field that are taking place in the last period are making realized, no longer feasible, infrastructures and means of mobility terrestrial and naval and we know that in Switzerland this happens also in the industrial procedures, like for example in the iron and steel ones. We have also seen that Timmermans has invited to trace a path that brings Taranto to a decarbonization through the use of renewable hydrogen. Having no time to express a fully formulated concept, I do a small press review. Today, June 9th, the German newspaper "Handelsblatt" announces that tomorrow, June 10th, the German Federal Government will announce the national hydrogen plan. I say - and on this I think we should find a unity of intent really beyond any political coloration and belonging of majority or opposition - that it is time for Italy to understand that investing in research, development and production of electrolytes, that is, the instruments that separate the hydrogen element from water and fuel cells, the fuel cells, that translate the hydrogen stored in electricity and produce water as waste, is an urgent necessity that has to do with economic development, geopolitics, to be able to really detach itself from dependencies from fossil sources, oil, the exploitation of man over man and war, a better environment. [[Applause.]] There is no reason, except for the legitimate interests of the lobbyists, which must or can oppose this and I hope that this Government will go in this direction, having certainly already shown sensitivity in this respect, for example with Article 42- bis of the thousand extensions, which opens up to the energy communities. I would like to thank Senator Girotto, who I know will come after me, because he is one of the colleagues who has been fighting for years on these issues that are becoming reality. The super ecobonus of 110 percent is a historical measure, which has no equal. I ask you, for the future of all of us and this country, to focus attention and resources also on the use of these two elements. As a senator who doesn't matter, in a Group without a particular membership, I invite you to identify the answers that are already around us. A thousand Hyundai trucks with renewable hydrogen are about to invade, as it were, Switzerland. Hydrogen must be created with the use of renewable sources. Italy is favored over Germany, Sweden and Austria because we have - we all know - at least the luck of being able to have the direct and indirect resources that give us the sun. Let us use these resources, let us commit ourselves because a way of achieving economic objectives and combating climate change and greater social justice lies in renewable hydrogen and the energy community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u79	Senator Messina is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year this House was already debating the motions for action to be taken to combat the worrying phenomenon of climate change. Today, one year later, it is necessary to reconsider that discussion and the determinations that have followed, even in the light of the vast and serious events that have taken place. In fact, we are experiencing an extraordinary time of deep and wide crises, a time when the structural issues that concern human society, such as the urgent need to combat climate change, are accompanied by equally alarming contingent concerns. The unexpected and transversal health emergency that radically changed the perspective, placing in the foreground the junction between the anthropological mutation induced by coronavirus and the role of public policies. I think we would make a mistake if we neglected, among the causes of this pandemic, a very important element: the break in the balance between animal species and the natural environment. A break that includes, among its causes, uncontrolled anthropization and quantitative development (unfortunately, sometimes only quantitative and not qualitative) of the industrial paradigm. The urgent need to stem the most harmful effects of the epidemiological crisis and the resulting economic effects in terms of growth and employment structurally crosses the seriousness and topicality of the climate crisis. The fight against climate change then comes fully into action to prevent the risks of new pandemics. A sequence well present in the great database of history reminds us how the collective dynamics in front of every epochal change also enter into the scene. To put it with Jared Diamond, only civilizations that are able to overcome the inertias of the most rooted interests survive the great challenges, changing even in time the hierarchies of value. Minister, I address you, of course, to the Government and to all of us who work together, in saying that it is a question of grasping and resolving the connection between the imminence of decisive action to combat the climate emergency and the just and pressing responses to the economic and social difficulties that await us in the coming months. And it is more appropriate than ever to broaden your eyes and think of economic reconstruction as the best opportunity for a "green revolution." The opportunity to change at the root is this and this is our chance to live again a new season, which combines above all development and respect for the environment and biodiversity, trends confirmed also in the new 2030 biodiversity strategy. Together, we must rework and traverse this passage as an opportunity and start from an economy, rethinking it in the light of its ecological conversion. It is therefore essential that we also make a major effort to steer European and global action towards a systemic and integrated approach, which includes, at the same time, the drastic reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, massive investment in environmental economic policies in the areas of transport, consumption, taxation, renewable energy production and efficient and responsible use of available resources. Of course, there is a clear direction on the part of the European Commission and President von der Leyen, who has undertaken to call to mind the centrality of the environment and the climate issue, to make Europe the first zero-emission continent by 2050. A commitment that has found the first significant response to the presentation of the green deal on 14 January last, an imposing and important plan, aimed at financing the transition in the coming years towards climate neutrality and then putting in place targeted actions to promote the efficient use of resources and stimulate the transition to a circular economy, to protect biodiversity and reduce pollution, investing in environmentally friendly technologies and supporting industry in innovation. The European Union, therefore, has been careful to channel public investment and private funds, totalling at least 1,000 billion; to introduce the mechanism for a fair transition, to mobilise at least 100 billion in the period 2021-2027 and thus mitigate the socio-economic impact of the transition to the green economy. The other important tool, the Next generation, was also presented. Of course, they are all important measures, which also find space and focus on the important transition to the green economy and the digital economy, both in supporting States for investments and reforms, but also in supporting private investment, which will affect companies, obviously in difficulty due to lockdown, to help them also in their production. Alongside European action, the contribution of the national government has been and is important and decisive. With the approval of this motion, we reaffirm an essential political point: the awareness of a necessary reversal of trend, combined with the desire to put in place the sure strategies for a resilient, sustainable, generative recovery, that identify in the integral ecology the framework of meaning from which to start our choices. Integral ecology is also a fundamental cultural element. It is based on the common vision and requires an effective and verifiable transition from a competitive society to a truly and effectively Community society, which overcomes mere competition, fully assuming the model of cooperation, in an idea of combating inequalities, which are incompatible with recovery. The green new deal, at the heart of our Government's action, is the real and only way to build more resilient societies and economies, able to reconcile the creation of economic value, work, health, environmental sustainability and also reduce the exposure of our production system to new risks and fragility. At this point I think it is appropriate to stress another aspect: sustainable finance with sustainable investments will be a key actor for the revival of economic growth, and it obliges all of us to rethink and courageously reform also taxation, thinking of a compensatory tax, declined not only on the redditional capacity, but also on that of polluting less. The business world itself is governing the passage of its budgets, imagining the sustainable budget as a development of the social budget. A truly ecological approach is always a social approach precisely because it overcomes the differences, and it is indispensable to drive at a time like what we are going through, when the culture of the common good is in difficulty, it needs a broad dialogue in order to achieve synthetic and shared objectives. The obligation, then, is to promote a rapid and profound rebalancing of values, necessary to solve the challenge before us. Obviously the great challenges impose great choices, but our country, Italy, also through this motion, can play a leading role in the great process of change that the planet and the citizens ask us to implement. We have an opportunity to create a new age, a new ethical relationship between man and nature. Future, time, social balance, sustainable development, solidarity: they are multipliers able to combine all aspects of well-being; each of us must become an energy community. Each of us must be energy democracy, realizing the approach to a welfare society that, also thanks to transparency, eliminates the asymmetries and revalues the figure of duty, and among the duties to help and support others, respecting proximity and sustainability. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u81	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Paris Agreement of 2015, environmental climate and energy policies have had a turning point around the world, and Italy has also had to play its part. The decision taken at the Climate Conference Cop 21 to limit the increase in global average temperature below 2%, even by providing for the limit of the increase to 1.5%, has naturally also affected the environmental policies of this country. We wanted to put this agreement into practice with mitigation plans that have led us to reduce emissions again, and that you yourself, Minister, explained to us when you took office in the Commission and fascinated us with the objectives of your political programme. Today, however, compared to all these heavy commitments, I am forced to ask perhaps for a greater awareness and the awareness that today we can no longer pursue these ambitious goals because we have half a million unemployed in Italy because of Covid. Therefore, the Italian Government's further commitment to environmental policies cannot fail to give new employment and support to companies that claim to have lost 420,000 jobs. We have adopted these European directives so far; we have also been subject to an increase in the number of permits and I tell you a little anecdote about this. A certain Miccichè, a friend of mine from Palermo to you all known, in two years he had to ask for 23 permissions to have a photovoltaic system at his house and then have no control in the next five years. I wonder today whether the courage that you have stated that you want to have in your mandate as Minister will make it even more difficult to streamline the country's bureaucracy because it would lead to an acceleration of national GDP. The continuous requests for stamps, in fact, in Italy and Sicily have weighed down the procedures. Minister, in other countries permits are issued on sight and, therefore, I do not understand why Italy cannot adopt the same method. We can certainly honour many commitments, but as long as they do not penalise our economy, guaranteeing the maintenance of jobs and the restoration of those lost during the pandemic emergency that has had repercussions on every decision. Colleagues, the 2030 European reduction targets are important, but first of all economic growth, safeguarding the country's wealth and people's work must come. The transition required by the targets that await us in ten years' time (40% reduction in emissions, 32% reduction in renewable energy consumption, 32.5 percent improvement in energy efficiency) has a heavy economic, fiscal and social cost that we cannot dump on our companies today. The long-term strategy, among other things, pursues emissive neutrality in 2050, i.e. zero emissions net of removals. This is an ambitious strategy that can only come back to our reach if Italy does not impoverish itself further. Each country has modified its own strategies and, therefore, with it it will have to necessarily modify the production systems. Italy has already achieved and even exceeded certain objectives, while others at this historic moment of economic crisis must necessarily achieve them with caution. The costs of the transition are considerable and at this stage cover millions of jobs and an entire production and social structure. At the moment we are wondering, for example, whether it makes sense to push the accelerator on the closure of coal-fired power stations, even in areas isolated from the national grid. It certainly makes sense to push investment into cleaner energy production systems because they create and activate direct and induced jobs, but carefully evaluate immediate costs and benefits. Today's resources cannot be diverted from the main and priority objective that must be completely sewn up the social fabric of our country. To do this, we need to be sure that every major environmental choice does not penalise the restoration of existing conditions and the creation of new opportunities. Therefore, also the reduction of energy consumption, which has always been a desirable point for environmentalists, is not desirable for the productive sectors because they are the mirror of an economic crisis and an industry that fails to restart. The economy at the moment needs to be liberated and less constraints, although it is clear that ambitious environmental objectives will have to be achieved sooner or later. The status quo ante had already seen a country in difficulty until 2019 with a spectacular decline in GDP. Italy had already slowed down because of your economic recipes that proved ineffective. The previous ones had put at the heart of the political action a green plan poorly combined with the Italian industrial context. The new green recipes of this Government are limited to encouraging the use of electric bikes and electric scooter. Minister, I'm grounded. I don't know how the electric scooter could have been introduced. There is already a mess and then it is a limited use. I'm not saying that because I've seen cities like San Francisco, where accidents have grown by 222 percent and hospitalizations by 315 percent. Walking through the streets of Rome we already see people turning in two on a scooter. They leave them all alone. ( [[Applause]] ). But how can such a system be predicted to be totally out of line with rules? There are no helmets, plates or sanctions for these people. But how can one introduce a measure, which could have been effective, without being accompanied by a rule that somehow made the drivers of scooters responsible, that they will all end up in the hospital? You know that. I don't have to tell you that. Returning to the motion, there has now been confirmation that regulation and taxation have really reached a high level and cannot be reduced. While the other European countries have managed to get out of the grip of lockdown, we are still in it and have not put in place the measures to restart the country. In conclusion, I would ask that I be able to deliver the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). However, I would like to make one last point to your attention. There is the new idea of putting plexiglas in schools, which of course will bring an incentive to plastic consumption; those same plastics that you have penalized, for example, with plastic tax. The company of Coca-Cola, in fact, with that measure will be forced, once again, to put its employees at the door: 150 redundancies have already been announced, then postponed to January, thanks to the intervention of Italia Viva, which expressed itself in this direction accepting our prayers. Minister, I really ask you, beyond your history, your culture and your mandate (two years have passed), to commit the courage you have had in your professional career also to encourage productions and everything that can be useful for this economy, including waste-to-energy. There are companies in Brescia that have built, for example, in Copenhagen, over a waste-to-energy plant, a ski plant; do you realize that? What is forbidden in Italy has become a tourist attraction. And we have to bear the costs of transporting the garbage and everything that we could consume and turn into a resource for our country. Thank you and wish you good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u83	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u84	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that Italians are the biggest fans in the world. Not so much for the quality of typhus - because frankly on that I would not be able to express myself - but certainly for quantity of typhus nobody beats us: we support the teams, as it is right that it is, we support the political parties - and this is perhaps less fair - and we get to the absurdity of tying ideological positions as well. I repeat: the absurdity of tying ideological positions. There are those who are negatorists, who do not even consider the arguments of the other side, and those who are alarmist to the extreme and see the end of the world around the corner. There is never an intermediate position. Now we are talking about climate change, as if they were a recent phenomenon, which has never occurred before in history and is about to upset the balance of our Earth. I remember, from my studies long ago (I prefer not to remember how much), that, when Greenland was discovered, it was called Grönland (green land) precisely because it was luxuriant, it was not frozen as it could be now. So climate change has always been there. With this I do not mean that man does not have a pathological effect on the climate and does not affect the climate: we know very well that this is not the case. What I want to say is that we must not take an effect, which in small part or in large part is determined by our action, and react to that by reaching extreme solutions, which have nothing scientific, except the fact that, indeed, they are a reaction, often of belly. Unfortunately, we never plan ahead of time, but we always try to eliminate the effects of what we have done. It is a belly reaction, which most of the time proves useless, sometimes even harmful. I want to give an example. Many argue that, among the major causes of global pollution, there is vehicle transport. In view of what is seen as one of the major problems causing climatic changes, it is decided to intervene to aim for the reduction of fine dust. Cars and road haulage also determine greenhouse gas emissions, but technically they are not exactly pollutants, so we focus mainly on fine dust and particulate matter. So, what do we do? It is decided to take action to limit the circulation of those who are responsible for these emissions. But then comes the Covid-19 and practically all the traffic for a period stops and the consequence, that we all know, is that worldwide emissions of pollutants - and therefore pollution - on average are halved. However, if we look at particulates and fine dust readings, they have not only not halved, but only reduced by 10%. But when at the end of March there was a heat wave caused by African winds, so with the presence of many fine dusts carried by the wind, we reached peaks. So the facts - facts that some people try to interpret in their favor - show that the situation is exactly the opposite, but what do we do? Ideologically we fight the solution of diesel transport, which is more efficient and determines the emission of less greenhouse gases, with a certainly less negative impact on the environment, in order to favor solutions that have a more injurious impact. Gasoline, against which no one has ever waged an ideological war like the one unfortunately carried out against diesel, pollutes more, but this argument is never considered. So what do we do? Let's try to stimulate the electric. I remember that the world's first electric market is China, where over 50 percent of electricity production comes from fuel sources, fossil fuels. What I want to highlight with this is that we must not adopt spot measures, we must not try to deal with the consequences, but we must prepare a plan, a project that certainly brings us in 2050 to the objective of producing not from fossil sources, but we must do so without affecting social, economic and what is clearly our economic and productive base, which allows us to choose an economic self-sufficiency, which allows us to choose. What I have never heard in this House before is that, without our economic self-sufficiency, without our capacity for self-determination, we will no longer be able to choose. Paradoxically, however, we are going to do so now, greatly limiting our future potentials, in order to fulfill a spirit that frankly, from a scientific point of view, has no foundation. In support of this statement I want to give an example, always referring to vehicle transport. The only type of transport that cannot be allowed to follow the fashions, having to be efficient, is heavy transport, which must transport goods from a point A to a point B without obviously being able to use the time necessary for the charging of the electric, without being able to waste economic resources, as could be the case with hybrid machines that travel long stretches. Heavy vehicle transport, not influenced by any ideology, except that of maximum efficiency, is not developing electrical systems, but fuel cell systems (hydrogen). Why was this choice made? Because, without ideological conditioning, the search for the most efficient mode of transport has focused on real, true solutions, which unfortunately are never considered here. When Mr Briziarelli, in explaining our motion, pointed out that it is concrete and aimed at obtaining measures that could allow real results to be achieved, it was precisely influenced by this. Our pragmatic approach to the problem does not ignore what should be the first teaching of history in our country. Italy is anthropized: it is small in terms of surface area, with an extension of little more than 300.000 square kilometers, on which live 60 million people, with a population density of about 200 people at square kilometer. This means that our country has always been inhabited in almost every part of it and this anthropization has not prevented the creation of protected areas in more than 10 percent of the surface, with direct or indirect influences on more than 20 percent of the surface. Therefore, if we were able to establish national and regional parks that have competence over more than 20% of our territory, it means that the anthropization, the man-territory relationship, has not affected the same, but rather has maintained it in the conditions of being able to be awarded the recognition of park, national or regional that is. This symbiosis, this care of the territory, this direct relationship and this direct management of the territory do not affect the quality of the same; man is not a virus. What we cannot accept is the implicit conception that man is a virus, which must be limited in its own activities, to which parts of the territory must be excluded because otherwise it destroys them. This is not the case: when our ancestors had the obligation to clean up rivers, slopes and territory, because in this way they prevented hydrogeological disasters and disasters that unfortunately hit us more and more often, they went to realize this symbiosis, which is fundamental. Instead, we now prevent any intervention, because our idea of ecology is to mummify everything, so we do not touch anything anymore and then inevitably the catastrophe occurs, and only in that case, we allow to intervene (not even always) with emergency measures. This isn't good anymore. If we are to plan the next 30 years, we must have the conscience and knowledge of what this nation actually needs, so I say no to ideological measures and yes to that fundamental pragmatism without which we will find ourselves increasingly in crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u85	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debates in this House are fundamental and fully acceptable, on which a daily political confrontation is necessary. This comparison has already brought some discreet results: the 110% superecobonus that we are now achieving, the energy communities (to which I thank the colleagues who have mentioned them) that we are now setting up because there are no implementing measures by the Ministry of Eco-Development and the Regulatory Authority for Energy Networks and Environment (ARERA), which have been slowed down by coronavirus, but we are stimulating the proposed organisms to emanate them. Among other things, I would like to thank Mr Buccarella, who also reminded us of the hydrogen instrument and, in reply to other colleagues, I would like to say that for us hydrogen is one of the components that will enter the technological mix that will help us in this transition. We have developed an energy programme in which we have declared ourselves technologically neutral and will continue to be neutral, so each technology can have its own space, then the market will clarify to what extent the cost-benefit ratio will be in its favour. I was saying that superecobonus, green new deal and energy communities clearly show the commitment of Parliament, the Government, with which we work constantly, and of the European Commission in the construction of a decarbonisation project that looks back to 2050 and I consider it the right way. Personally at this post-Covid stage, I believe that the recognition of the state of environmental and climate emergency in our country is an act of political responsibility towards the new generations, who aloud and in different ways ask us to act. We did. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the motion before us is not the same as the previous motion that we debated months ago, because there was no mention of the state of emergency in the previous motion. We have been active and we have accepted these requests. The voices that demand this awakening are now unstoppable, are one of those waves that cannot be stopped, that we cannot ignore; moreover, even the latest events must be the subject of inspiration towards a transformation of the current model, still centralized, in what is called a Ridef system, that is renewable, decentralised and efficient, therefore a system of circular economy, decarbonization and sustainable mobility capable of feeding virtuous mechanisms and finding the necessary answers. This will bring us enormous social, environmental, economic, political and health benefits. The construction of this system is not science fiction. The availability and use of innovative technologies will only stimulate entire national, craft, industrial and service production chains and create new professionalism and jobs. I remember that a recent study puts Italy in second place, worldwide, in the ranking of green growth tiger, that is the tigers of the economic growth green of the 21st century. This is a very recent study conducted by Oxford Martin School and Smith school of enterprise and environment. Let's just think about what will trigger the automotive sectors, and of course the new more sustainable automotive, sharing economy, digitalization, the energy and seismic redevelopment of the building heritage, energy communities, other forms of collective self-consumption and many other topics and threads. These are all issues with colleagues from the 10th We have had the opportunity to deal in depth with the Commission, and we have made a concrete contribution to the construction of a new industrial model in the country. Let us always remember that the European directives are already driving us in this direction. Therefore, our priority is to speed up their transposition, just as we have done for the communities, which we have anticipated. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mrs Messina, who spoke of a change in finance and sustainable finance. I raise even more, as you also said, speaking of ethical finance, which has proved to be completely different from traditional finance and - heard, heard - even more profitable. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention to the last essential aspect of the time factor. We urgently need to respond to people's everyday needs, protect health and work. It is all constitutional rights that we can protect and guarantee only if we have the strength to build a sustainable production and consumption model as soon as possible. I therefore raise to what will probably be a forthcoming decree-law on simplifications, all the theme of repowering and reblading for renewable energies, for example. Let's make sure that immediately the commitments that we will approve today not only remain subject of will on paper, but become concrete material able to involve the sensitivity of all of us regardless of the deployments, to be realized quickly with the involvement of the best skills that in our country certainly do not lack. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u87	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u90	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, after an exchange between the various groups, it emerged that a ten-minute suspension was needed to assess the rewording of the various texts. In this regard, after listening to the Government, there is a unanimous agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u91	Since we are not against it, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m., provided that the suspension, like the one previously agreed, is productive. (The sitting was suspended at 4.48 p.m. and resumed at 5.25 p.m.) I note that a text 4 of motion No 194, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, a text 2 of motion No 198, presented by Senator Iannone and other senators, and a text 2 of motion No 244, presented by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u92	Mr President, I thank - and I am not rhetorical thanks - all the groups for putting the concept of nature, the environment and sustainability at the centre of attention today, at this historic moment, and doing so here in the Senate, in the most sacred seat of the Italian Republic, means wanting to make a journey together, at last, I would say. Finally, I say why we must not forget even that piece of history that belongs to us, where the Paris Agreement of 2015, when it was transposed in 2016, saw some representatives of the political forces currently sitting in Parliament of the so-called opposition vote against and I remember that the League did not agree at the time. Today I thank you for this change of position, because it means realizing that actually green is the new path to look at for jobs and for a development that has a completely different concept and a completely new vision. That is why I thank everyone, without forgetting the story as we have said. Compared to the path we have drawn, the four motions, which cross the constitutional arc, allow us all to reflect and debate on some strong arguments that cross the country and Europe. Suffice it to say that in recent days the new strategy for the protection of biodiversity has been presented by the Environment Commission, strongly wanted by Italy. The Farm to Fork plan was presented, where pesticides are being reduced; on 4 March the new EU Climate Act was presented, and before the Covid, the Commission chaired by von der Leyen announced investments of EUR 1,000 billion (EUR 100 billion per year) and there was still no mention of the post-Covid funding, which, however, has a condition. Europe is essentially asking us: to ensure that these funds are green-oriented, because what does it recognise, to be clear? That for every job produced by fossils, with green they are produced from three to five jobs: more work, more environmental protection, let me say more nature, so as never to make the confusion that environment and nature are the same thing. They are two different things, which must be protected with similar but different paths. Today, we are talking about all this and then we are talking about significant elements, such as the PNIEC, the National Integrated Plan for Energy and Climate, which cuts emissions into the atmosphere by 40%, already deposited by Italy. Our country, together with myself, is ready to make it even more ambitious in relation to the impact study that the European Union will deposit in September on the decarbonisation plan of 2050. We are, that is, one of the leading countries at European level, and I do not say this rhetorically: we have signed a note, as the Government of the Italian Republic, addressed to Frans Timmermans in this sense: the new impact plan will be deposited, a reduction percentage will be set not already of 40%, but included in a fork between 50 and 55%, will be clearly reworked, strengthened and pushed the new integrated national plan for energy and climate. This means going back to the example I have mentioned and worked out by the great economists and Nobel laureates for the economy, so for every fossil job they are produced, at equal expense, from three to five in the world of green. The PNIEC is a further reference point, but this allows us to say that we had already believed it. (17.33) (Follow-up to COSTA, Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea). Do you remember the climate law born of a decree-law? It was the first time in the history of the Italian Republic in which with a notation of urgency and indefferability there was talk of environment and climate. Then came the law of stability, the decree-law relaunched and now the decree simplifications. Many of you have supported simplification. I would add: let's burn down, which is not the same thing that we simplify and speed up, which is not the same thing that we burn down. We combine three verbs that push in the direction of the green. We can do that: it's the big challenge. What do I like about today's debate (and I thank the Senate for that)? I like that we have been confronted in a serene, polite and institutional way, each with his own idea, but to find a path together. It's kind of my personal story, but it's always the theme: when it comes to green, sustainability, nature and environment, how do you think it belongs to a color or flag? Nobody puts color or flag on this. That's why I appreciate and thank the Senate, without forgetting the story of everyone: who has believed in it right away and who now on the road gets on the train and believes in it. All right, the important thing is to believe it! Clearly, it can prove this by concrete facts. That is why I am delighted with this debate. Today I heard a very nice word from a senator, whom I thank. I am referring to the concept of awareness. I greatly appreciated the fact that awareness, like decline, is a child of the principle of responsibility, and today I think that with this motion we commit not only, of course, the Government, but ourselves, in our sense of responsibility. We are committed to contributing, with the proper and just differences of thought of each of us, not "against" but "for": here is the greatness of this day! Mr President, in the light of this, with your permission, I would like to decline with regard to the four motions. I have before me motion No 194, on which, as a Government, I express a favourable opinion with regard to the premises, which I do not express for the other three motions. As far as motion No 194 is concerned, I am in favour of a number of rewordings and, with the President's permission, have already been agreed and concerted in the parliamentary groups. As far as motion No 198 is concerned, I repeat that I am opposed to the premises. With regard to the points on which we are in favour, including the points on which we are in favour with rewording in the light of what we have just said, Mr President, I am in favour of point 2, with rewording, on point 3, on point 5, on point 6, on point 7, on point 8, on point 10, on point 12, on point 13, with rewording, and on point 14. With the President's permission, by difference, the other points (if you want the list) are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u93	I therefore assume that the opinion is against points 1, 4, 9, 11 and 15. I would just like to ask you whether there was a proposal for reformulation on point 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u94	Point 5 is actually acceptable with rewording. Do you want me to read it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not if it's agreed. It was just for clarification. , Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. With regard to motion No 199 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, I confirm that the premises are not acceptable. On the other hand, I am in favour of point 3, with rewording, point 4, with rewording, and point 5, with rewording. On the other hand, point 1, point 2 and point 6 cannot be accepted. With the permission of the President, I come to the fourth motion, No 244 (text 2), tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. I confirm that the premises are not acceptable. [[Applause.]] In the course of the debate, a new point has emerged, which we will call, for exposition convenience, 01, because it was the first point, before point 1, which is acceptable; I therefore support point 1, with rewording, and point 2, with rewording. On point 3, the premise is acceptable with rewording; where the rewording is accepted, points 3 (a), 3 (b), 3 (c) and 3 (d) are acceptable. The opinion was in favour of point 4, with rewording, point 5, point 6, with rewording, point 7, with rewording, point 8, with rewording, and point 9 with rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u95	Preliminarily, I ask the extensors of the motions if they accept the rewordings proposed by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u96	Mr President, we accept the rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u97	Mr President, we do not accept them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u98	Mr President, we do not accept the reformulations, because they completely distort the two points that remain from the cancellation of others.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u99	Mr President, we welcome the rewording of commitments and call for a vote on the premises.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u102	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am only speaking for clarification, so that we can be ready at the time of the vote, given that logistics is not easy. I understand that my colleagues from Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia have not accepted the proposed rewordings; so I imagine that, while the texts of the motions as they have been presented, the Government's opinion is contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u103	You were right to remember that, Senator, but I'd say yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u106	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, Senator Ferrazzi's first-signed motion affirms the conscience with which the Senate faces the climate emergency: if approved, the motion includes 22 points with which Palazzo Madama commits the Government in the adoption of specific initiatives. The Gruppo Italia Viva-PSI believes deeply in the commitment to the environment and testifies to the many initiatives and legislative proposals that have seen us protagonists. I believe and we believe that it is difficult not to agree with what the motion proposes, but with this explanation of vote I want and we want to make an extra step. What we are about to vote on in the text before us calls for two basic requirements: a change of mind and considerable resources to be invested. The change of mentality requires a lucid ability to read the present, a full assumption of responsibility, a political vision about the future and the strength to take decisions with immediate and immediate effects, in the awareness that you should not set up a gala lunch, but change lifestyles, habits and comfort. It is between knowing how to keep your feet anchored on the ground, not content with the statements of principle, the will of the legislator to want to determine the political choices of governments, orienting them and not subjugating their actions, sometimes not resolute and coherent. I want to set a specific example for all my colleagues. If we consider it necessary to change our production system and if we put it on the record in the motion that we want to facilitate the transition from the linear to the circular economy, we must support the investments of the companies that are going in this direction. To limit the "industry 4.0" measures to 31 December this year is not going in the right direction. Support for innovation companies, particularly those that innovate in the direction of greater environmental respect, needs longer-term support. In this change of mentality it must be made clear that cities play a fundamental role with their choices: land planning, LED public lighting, development plans of urban and interurban cycling networks, investments for energy efficiency of buildings (from municipal offices to schools, from warehouses to popular homes), protection of green areas, plantings and reforestation. These are measures which, in addition to being effective, would bring benefits that can be perceived by all citizens, with a pedagogical value as well. That is why we must encourage the investments of the cities, supporting them, increasing them, also updating the important resources that the last budget law has allocated for the years to come. As far as the huge resources needed to deal with what the motion is proposing to us are concerned, as everyone knows, we are experiencing the most critical phase in the history of the country since the post-war period and the effects of the pandemic are recalling important financial commitments in debt. The resources available must therefore be well oriented, as for example we are doing with the 110% bonus measure for the energy redevelopments of the buildings; a measure that we will certainly be able to improve during the conversion of the decree-law relaunch. In the coming months, we will have to make important choices to allocate the money that will come from Europe, but the resources that we allocate also go to expenditure and expenditure quickly. One of our country's many problems is the investments parked, the resources allocated but frozen, the bureaucratic and administrative blocks to which the Minister referred even a short while ago. Let me, then, and let us appeal, so that the motion that we are going to vote may find concreteness, to the fact that we must, without delay, adopt measures that free up all those resources that would enable us to make investments that go in the direction of enhancing mobility on iron, solving problems of hydrogeological failure, solving serious road problems. While it is true that it is necessary to provide for a reform of the procurement code and administrative rules in order to help ensure a more streamlined and rapid process of public procurement, pending this fundamental intervention we can accelerate already decided and financed works, appointing extraordinary commissioners responsible for all the process ranging from design to execution, on the model of the Commissioner of Genoa or the Expo, defining for all works of strategic interest time-limits for appeals and appeals, simplifications in the matter of environmental impact assessment (EIA) and making peremptor the terms provided for in the single environmental text for the granting of authorisations in case of renewal of the EIA commission and for the strategic environmental assessment (VAS) and of the technical committee. All the institutions of the country, from the central state, regions, autonomous provinces, metropolitan cities, provinces and municipalities would be involved in this action. From Valle d'Aosta to the islands we have interventions on railway lines, high speed, port areas, road axes. I would like to mention the Region by Region the main projects already financed for a total value of approximately 120 billion euros that, if they left quickly, could not do well to the country, also regarding the containment and the improvement of the polluting emissions and to the answers to the climate change: in Valle D'Aosta the railway work called Lunette of Chivasso; in Piedmont the Asti-Cuneo highway; in Liguria the new dam of the port and the Gronda of Genoa; in Lombardy the works for the mitigation of the risk of exodation of the Seveso, the road of Gallarate-Rho and the doubling of the railway line Mantova-Cremona-Codogno; in Veneto the high speed Brescia-Verona-Padova besides the dredgs of the lagoons of Venice; in Untino-Alto Adige the old road of the city-Valbrenta-Bassano; in Friuli-Venezia Giulia the high speed of the Venice-Tries, the Bonifice of the port of Triestes and the redevelopment of the port of the old port of the capital; in Rome; They are works for a total of approximately 120 billion euros, already allocated, already waiting for use in the budgets of the State. It is a vast set of cantierable works immediately, which would lead to a threefold result: the immediate and fast response to some of the main needs in the context of the interventions related to the climate emergency, the modernization of the infrastructures of our nation to promote its competitiveness, the growth of GDP in this critical phase of the economic and social life of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, and I begin to conclude, we need consistency, even taking into account what is the state of the country and what we are preparing to do with the other measures. On the subject of cars, for example, we must support amendments aimed at stimulating the replacement of the fleet which treats petrol, diesel and diesel in a different way and hybrid, also taking into account the fact that European car manufacturers are heading on the road that sees hybrid and electric. If we really want to go in the direction that we want with this motion, then we must be able to distinguish the different options. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every crisis brings opportunities: from protests, rights; from the Great Depression, the new deal; from the post-war period, the economic boom; from earthquakes, an effective Civil Protection; from terrorism, a capable information system. All this is possible if there is politics to take on everyone, as the former vice president of the United States Biden pointed out yesterday. It is time for politics, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, also for the climate emergency, for us too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u109	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the climate crisis that is taking place in the medium and long term is the subject of scientific studies which identify a clear correlation between climate change and the policies of the subject itself. According to the latest scientific studies, the temperature of the planet from 1860 to today has increased by almost one centigrade degree in Europe alone and is expected, by the end of the century, a thermal increase ranging from 1.4 to 5.8 degrees centigrade. The Paris Agreement, signed in December 2015, between the Member States of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, signed by 192 countries, including Italy, has been defined as a global action aimed at the containment of climate change through the reduction of the increase in global warming. Several initiatives have been undertaken in Europe to identify concrete climate policy action aimed at defining measures that can reduce and manage climate change risks. Italy must also play its part and, from this perspective, in 2015 the Minister for the Environment promoted a national strategy of adaptation to climate change, whose main objective is to develop a national vision on the common paths to be taken to cope with climate change, contrasting and mitigating their impacts through the identification of actions and paths aimed at reducing risks. That is why the goal of carbon neutrality, which must be achieved by 2050, is crucial so that the European Union can be a world leader in the fight against climate change. We must promote research into technological innovation and the development of natural gas without carbon dioxide emissions in all fora, including in Europe, as authoritatively supported by many scientists, such as our life-long Senator Carlo Rubbia. However, it should be pointed out that the increase in temperature also causes other phenomena, such as the risk of desertification affecting a quarter of the earth's surface, but not only. Among the consequences that affect our country is the growth of the sea level, which has increased in the last century from 10 to 25 cm and could even increase by another 80 by 2100; an incalculable damage, also due to the loss of biodiversity, because many animal species will not be able in any way to adapt to climate changes as quickly as necessary. It is therefore important to take concrete action, which can clearly combat coastal erosion before it is too late for all of us. Huge problem is also that linked to the risks of agricultural production, which suffers the effects of climate change, with the consequent succession of famines that, according to FAO, will lead to a loss of more than 10% of arable land in developing countries. Another theme is that linked to the increasing hydrogeological risk, closely linked to the Italian territorial and infrastructural configuration. The succession of current events highlights the very serious structural deficiencies present in our country; just think of what happened in November 2019, with the collapse of a portion of 30 meters of the viaduct Turin-Savona, due to a landslide detached from the nearby mountain. The damage caused by landslides, floods and floods affects more than 29,000 square kilometres of national territory and is potentially dangerous for 10 million inhabitants living in high-risk settlements. It is therefore necessary, colleagues, to increase sensitivity to environmental issues, which can combine the participation of society to the increasing and abundant availability of information produced by innovative monitoring technologies, so that a governance of the territory can be carried out in order to enhance in a harmonious way the local resources and to make the local communities stronger. For too long - I am beginning to conclude - we have lived in our country with the absence of an environmental culture that, starting from schools, leads to an increasing awareness towards the protection of the environment and the culture of energy saving. We must start again from the elimination of waste and from a new policy of sustainable mobility, which can represent the evolution of our society. We know, with great regret, that Italy is a taillight in Europe with regard to the presence of environmental issues among the subjects subject of school education, a record that we must reverse as soon as possible with a concrete policy that leads environmental education to be strongly present among the youngest sections of our country, which cannot rely on the discretion and sensitivity of individual teachers. The emergency linked to the spread of the Covid-19, which has affected the whole world and which has led us to live an unimaginable tragedy, cannot fail to reflect on the precariousness that distinguishes this historical and social period. However, precariousness can only be countered by courageous policies, strong choices and concrete decisions on all fronts, especially on sensitive issues such as the environment. The hope of all of us is that words will follow. For these reasons, Minister, we will vote in favour, as well as the motion signed by all the Senators of the Brothers of Italy and at the first signature of Senator Iannone, also of the motions presented by the Parliamentary Groups of the League and Forza Italia, while we will vote against the premises of the motion tabled by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u112	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's debate is very important. I say it without emphasis. Someone must have thought it was a little strange that we were discussing the motion on climate change - I heard a few words about this - in the midst of the crisis that we are going through because of the Covid emergency. On the other hand, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to hold this debate, all the more so for what we are going through, for the months we have spent and for the problems that are still ahead of us. This is for a very simple reason. In the months of lockdown, as you know, having all stood still, there has been a drop in emissions - it is said - almost 8 percent (if this were the trend, we would be fine). This data tells us that from the crises you can come out reproducing the mistakes of the past - then putting in place old recipes - or rebirth, using these moments so difficult and dramatic to do what we have not been able to do together until before the crisis, that is to rethink our model of development and accelerate towards that green energy transition that is the only possibility that we have to overcome even the economic difficulties. Minister, we must rethink development as indicated in the programme which has given rise to this majority and in the budget law, and begin to give the relevant indications. The green new deal expression was not, even then, chosen at random. I remember what the New Deal produced after the great crisis in the United States. For example, the great American parks are the result of that strong investment, which is done not only by trying to boost employment but also by putting a different vision into place. Many Members have spoken of the need for cultural change; there is a need to put in place a new Weltanschauung, a new vision of the world. This crisis has told us that we are a fragile species and that we have helped to make our chances of survival on this earth fragile. What are the figures from the very interesting debate that has taken place? If we read them all, they make an impression: they show how much we have reduced biodiversity, how many animal and plant species have become extinct and how much our development model has produced an almost irrecoverable situation. We no longer have time, and that is also the point of this motion. The pandemic should have made us think through and make it clear that we need to speed up and that there is no more time to waste. The commitments contained in this motion and also in others tabled by my colleagues - Minister, I call on you to make yourself spokesperson in the Government - are, one after the other, our track and our programme. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are the points and the elements. [[Applause]] In this debate this House is capable, much more than many task forces, of giving the real impetus to the recovery of the country. Let's not go find who knows what. We certainly examine the contributions and discuss them, but with the commitments contained in the motion we already have the line and the programme. We must make these commitments our strategic programme. I claim it here. I speak for myself. I gave this majority support, thinking that it could make us make a qualitative leap and it was not at all obvious. I would like to address my colleague, Mr Ferrazzi, because we have sometimes discussed this: let us rediscover the true glue of this majority, which can make us make the leap of quality, which is precisely that of the revolution and the green transition, of understanding that we must put in place for our country, for future generations and for Europe the real possibility of a future. [[Applause]] In our country there are incredible energies, skills and also talents that have created new research, investments, maybe on their own, and innovations. We must do this and, when I hear that we first think about economic growth, I answer that it is this and it is investing on this that gives us the opportunity to grow; to invest to restore our territory, to stop the consumption of the soil and make our cities beautiful places, more beautiful than they are, livable places. This is the resource: it is the energies that we can put in place. We also have the know-how to do so and we have to push even more. We all hope that what happened in Glasgow will push all the decision-makers in the world to take a real step forward, because we no longer have time. They gave us ten years, and if we can't reverse the trend, we can't do it. But it is not just a dramatic message that we must give. The message we have to give today is to say that we can do it, because this is good for us, it is good for the country, it is good for the quality of life and for our children: these are the answers that the young people asked us last Friday to go back to the square. They asked us, precisely, not to deprive them of the possibility of having a good future and a good life. So all these commitments are our plan, what this House will vote for, what the House had already indicated before the pandemic. It is enough that we stick to them, with all the possibilities of comparison. We will have the general states now; let us certainly confront ourselves with new energies and collaborations, but this is the fundamental axis on which we must work and we all have the opportunity to really build a new economic strategy. This is also the key to defeating our other obsession: this model of development has carried out a robbery against nature and people, because it has exploited them causing enormous inequalities. If we tackle in this way, with this new strategy, a new model of development, the circular economy, the restoration of the territory and everything that we and many other associations have been able to develop in recent years, we will also be able to invest in school, research and retraining. We give funds to companies, but it is not a bad thing when we ask them to speed up innovation and production processes, because this will no longer decorate and benefit them. Then we will do a great deal of work to promote employment and overcome inequalities. Look, the line of worsening environmental emergencies and inequality, if you look at it, is identical and parallel. That is why we are always talking about a green transition that is fair and fair. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u115	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister, because it seems to me that his words have grasped what Senator De Petris also said a moment ago and I share a great deal. This motion is exactly the heart of a political choice that government and country must make, in line with the choices that are being discussed at this time. I tell you why it is not so usual to hear a Minister who makes a motion a pivot of a country's policy, also because we all consider that it is one of the most significant and complex challenges that this time has given us responsibly to face and it is certainly this, the environmental climate issue, the turning point of innovation across all policies. I believe that there is a real axis in this House, also as the final one that we will be voting with the various interweavings between the motions. Of course, for too long, short-sighted attitudes and social and political attitudes have allowed environmentalism to become, at least in our country, but not only, a point of view of part and niche, and this is the logic that must now be defeated. With the passage of time and with the succession of critical experiences, if not traumatic, with the advance - as was said - of scientific research and studies and with the growth of a generation more sensitive to the balance between habits of life and environment, things have begun to change, but not enough and not quickly, when instead they serve speed and decision, and above all still not sufficiently hegemonic with respect to the global scenario, unfortunately still full of negationisms and attitudes prone to the extreme exploitation of natural resources. We cannot deny that after a very promising phase, culminated in the Paris Agreements of 2015, the world has recently made steps backwards, both in the choices of large countries and important leadership, as well as in the operational objectives, that together the international community and each country must commit themselves to achieving, as shown by the Madrid Cop 25 last December, in which it was not possible to define binding commitments for the implementation of the 2015 Agreement: we must be aware of this. Yet, there have been positive signs, starting from the mobilization of the younger generations, that - I want to emphasize - not only has it been able to impose on the media and political agenda such an important and decisive theme, but it has also led many families and so many pieces of society to mature greater sensibilities and more desire to become active. This is a fact that testifies to the extent of consciousness. In this scenario and in this new social focus on the environment, the choice of the new European Commission, led by President von der Leyen, to give priority to the environment and climate, precisely to make Europe the first continent to zero emissions by 2050, thanks to that green deal, which will finance clean and circular economy, protection of biodiversity and reduction of pollution, innovation and environmentally friendly technologies, mobility and sustainable transport, decarbonisation. This is the future of a country! It is therefore a concrete plan, capable of mobilising - as has been said in this debate and in the presentation of the motion - both public and private investments, for more than EUR 1,000 billion, in order to achieve the energy transition really - because there are policies and resources -. These choices, which took place at the European Commission's inauguration, were followed, also with the explosion of the health crisis, by the next generation EU budget proposal (the Recovery Instrument) of EUR 750 billion, to help - here yes - the sectors most affected, which must be relaunched and supported through the green transition. In these last months of health emergency and collective reaction to coronavirus, we have faced ourselves - as I believe never before, for any emergency experienced by the planet - with reflection, not limited only to scientific contexts or militant commitment, on how subtle and fragile the balance with the environment that surrounds us; on how much there can be separation between us who live it and the space that hosts us and on the fact that we cannot be considered as conflicting and opposite the human, human and natural life, the environment. We have seen our everyday life turned upside down by a virus, which - as experts explain - has probably found a way to pass from animals to humans, also thanks to the overlapping of habitats and the over-exploitation, which often leads us to look at the planet only with a predatory perspective. We have then seen our cities and our living spaces change in a very short time, rediscovering how silence, the cleanest air, the growth of vegetation even where we thought it could no longer happen, the return of animals and birds in the water, in the air and in the green around us, directly concern our quality of life. Everything that we do and that happens to us, as a more or less direct result of our actions and our presence in the world, affects the environment in which we live. Of course, the experience of lockdown has also put us in front of the fact that the improvement of environmental conditions requires a radical change of habits that goes beyond what can be imagined when the political objective that needs to be given is to increase opportunities and conditions of well-being, thus reducing inequalities. I very much agree with this interweaving, so it must be constantly said that the more you look after the environment and the more you face and overcome inequalities from all points of view. We cannot choose downhill paths and, consequently, we cannot take positions and directions of decline, but we must work very hard for a fairer, more environmentally-friendly, more sustainable growth and, if I may allow myself - perhaps I have a point of difference with Senator De Petris in relation to the document Colao - even more equal, because in that document it is written, but we have not yet declined this motion. However, there is a need for processes in the Government and in Parliament, in all economic challenges, and leadership groups that have the culture of the political challenge to care, that is, able to read all these processes in an innovative way. If there is no such thing, we will struggle to govern one of the fundamental choices of our country and its future that is exactly this. I do not want to dwell on the data that we can have, compared to the fact that we have not treated and of course prevented everything that has happened during this period. Numbers in hand, as well as a political choice there is an economic interest, an interest in working and preventing and, therefore, to really interpret this motion as a general political choice. I would just like that, in order to get out of the crisis and accompany the months of coexistence with the virus that we have unfortunately still in front of us, we really catch in the season that we are experiencing the need for this extraordinary change that concerns culture, knowledge, technological innovation, the sustainability of every structure, with an approach that can also determine a new civic ethics, a new way of thinking and acting as individuals and as a community. This choice also leads to the need for individual, and not just collective, behavior, just starting from the choices of Government and Parliament. Addressing the environmental and climate challenge is therefore a priority that we must be able to give and sustain with great strength in this context, even compared to just a few months ago, when perhaps we were still too few convinced of this need. It is important then, strategically, today more than ever, the choice that I remember from the Commission to focus on the green deal, to which are added instruments such as recovery fund, but I also mean the ESM. I say this quietly, I do not want to create controversy, but I want to make it clear that even that type of financing, if we are to go through many changes, needs to be fully used, precisely with such a logic full of transversality. It seems to me that the basic choice we have to make is exactly that. We are not dealing with the motion before us with a passage to the sides. It often happens, when we discuss motions in this House, that they are a passage to the sides, simple recommendations. In this case it is a choice that goes through all the political, economic and social choices that we must make. I think that this becomes the point of representation of a political will that goes through, in the debate and in the confrontation, majority and opposition, from the general states onward. I want policy to make that choice, and if it does, along with the administration and the people who have to deal with it, we will make it. That's what we're expected to do. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u118	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us clear the field of misunderstandings. It is true that the issue of environmental protection has no flags and no color. It is true that we are all projected to improve climate conditions, an improvement that passes from eco-friendly economic and industrial models. It is true that our attitude is absolutely proactive, but it is also true that our settings are different from the way we face the moment of transition that we are experiencing. Let us be clear: we are the ones who are in favour of the implementation of the plants and the thermo-towers, in order to homogenize the system of collection, delivery, disposal and recycling of waste, so that every part of Italy is independent in transforming waste into resource. [[Applause.]] We are those of structural incentives and targeted environmental taxation for companies that convert, that innovate, that throw their hearts beyond the obstacle. We are those of environmental mediation to quicken disputes and we are those of the realization of the DAC of the environment to find the dishonest. We are those of revitalizing infrastructure: green infrastructure, such as the high-speed train, such as rail transport or even electric cableway. [[Applause.]] We're moving on. We do not just think of rails that consume soil. We also think of high cable cars, with removable pylons, wanting and, therefore, looking further. We are those who believe that man's action is, yes, helping to speed up a climate process, which, however, derives, substantially, from natural elements and from the earth: it is the history of the earth that reminds us of it. Today, however, man can perhaps face the new era only thanks to new sensitivity and technological innovation. On this basis we do not accept mediations and compromises, because this would be the real revolution: to be, for once, concrete and fast. All this said, climate change and environmental issues no longer need words. The environment needs facts, concrete actions, certainties, important and structural investments and to get hundreds and hundreds of implementing decrees out of the ministerial marshes that have not yet been fired. [[Applause.]] Do you know why? It is easy: politics, in fact, must not invent anything. For that there are research centers, there are companies, there are innovative startups, there are training centers, universities and school. Politics must make it simple and support the public and private initiative in alliance, with concrete and quick interventions of practical direction and simplification against what we call monstrous eco-burocracy, which has become a suffocating cage for every initiative, and especially at this time when one is also afraid of one's own shadow. Politics must quickly realize a targeted environmental tax, which includes structural incentives and bonuses that do not penalise any of the parties, because, despite the stakes and obstacles of a Government that is a little 'hand held back, we are already among the first countries in the world for innovation, technology, development and industrial conversion. Italy will be able to place itself fully within the European and global process, proposing in the wider forums to make a wall against those who still put products in circulation that do not respect certain characteristics. I really like the concept, which I have heard, of civilization duties. The fact remains that, without changing further and profoundly, in a homogeneous way in the country, the current production system, urban and infrastructural, will not achieve the desired results. Who speaks to you is convinced that, among the causes of the greatest suffering from Covid-19 in the Regions of the North and especially in Lombardy, there is also the greater incidence of pollution; that pollution to fight which, however, the Italian cities are still waiting for the Government to unlock the resources already allocated. Small things? But the oceans are made of single drops. From this crisis - as all colleagues before me have said - opportunities must be created. We think of new systems of innovative transport; we think of new systems to prevent certain mayors from cutting majestic trees in the cities to create comfortable paved concrete; instead, we plan incentives for reforestation and urban regeneration and measures of contrast with sanctions salty to those who plan to deforest. Let's think about training teachers for the real education and prevention activities that are done at school because it is not enough to insert the voice "environmental education" without planning a serious training project and an ad hoc program to follow. They are simple but extremely effective actions. The actions for the restart after the emergency will have to be the occasion to realize that real green deal economic-industrial that will become green deal social; otherwise green deal will remain only a set of words that do so chic but without construct. [[Applause.]] Let us think, then, of an extraordinary plan of breaking down obsolete technologies, because before painting a wall we must clean it up, and then start producing new technological solutions that are environmentally and economically sustainable, while creating development, employment, revitalization and marketing. Then there is the theme of the hydrogeological failure, because the failure is one of the main consequences of climate change together with desertification, and it will have to start from a serious mapping of the territories, from investments that act in a preventive and no longer emergency way, which now costs too much in terms of loss of human lives and destruction of the territories. And as I speak to you, Northern Italy is under clouds and hailstorms that are devastating the crops and bringing to its knees a territory already devastated by the crisis Covid. We miss grasshoppers and then we got everything. On the other hand, the Asian bug and wild boars are playing their part! [[Applause.]] Once again the government will work on the emergency with the local authorities exhausted and abandoned. However, the transition is in progress regardless, because sensitivity has changed and the Government cannot restrain the impulses. It may seem paradoxical, but the environment is not protected by going back, by holding back development, but, on the contrary, by encouraging technological innovation, research and free initiative in every possible way. Trust and freedom are the key words of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]] I repeat: trust and freedom. I always remember that the environment is that pivot of the wheel whose rays are called productive activities, health, industry, agriculture, fishing, landscape, territory, tourism, culture, school, research - it is a great responsibility - and Italy is the country that has the ingenuity as a fantastic raw material, that must not be mortified, but must be valued and accompanied by visionary and open addresses, that even anticipate the needs, do not hinder them. I remember why we decided to table this motion: we are concerned, but at the same time we want to continue to be proactive. They are positive because we believe that, today more than ever, Italy cannot afford to be trapped by the bureaucratic and fiscal network and by a rigid ideological network also in the environmental field because, if we really want to be able to comply with the directives that the European Union imposes on us and that logic tells us correct regardless, we must allow operators to work with serenity. Environmental sustainability is a serious and serious matter; it must be tackled seriously and pragmatically. There can be no environmental sustainability without economic sustainability. [[Applause.]] The real question is: is the climate issue addressed simply to comply with a European directive, why do we like to call ourselves green, environmentalists or why do we really believe that we need to act in the best way? The climate motions remind me that today I read the document presented by the task force coordinated by Vittorio Colao: 17 experts at work for almost two months of emergency, with the aim of proposing a plan for the relaunch of the country. Well, the report is like an ordained task with statements that in several points even conflict with the government's guidelines, and it is reduced to mere theory, even a little trivial - if we want - because the arguments have been on the government's table since that day, but they are certainly not so compelling as to justify the appointment of a task force that - in my opinion - without acting on the immediate need also diminishes the function and role of the Ministries. On the other hand, we didn't need experts to tell us how to invest in hydrogeological failure, end of waste, etc. So the two factors are speed and responsibility. It is time to see the future and realize it; programs are not enough; it is not enough to run 6 less; you have to work for the 10, otherwise you stop talking about green new deal. We will therefore vote in favour of our motion because we need vision, certainty, concreteness and clear rules at European and global level that must start with us. We accept the proposals for reformulation on points 3 and 5, although they seem totally contrary to concreteness and rationality, but we cannot do otherwise. However, we will not tire of claiming our different approach. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u119	Senator Gallone, there has been a change, because previously I felt I had understood that no reformulation was accepted? GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, let us change our previous position. We thank the Minister for the rewording and rewording of our motion and welcome the rewording of points 3) and (5) of our motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u122	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister Costa, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of motions is an opportunity to discuss Europe's willingness to combat climate change, to put the energy transition at the heart of its projects and to become a world leader in clean energy. The European Commission led by President von der Leyen presented with the green new deal a package of measures to make Europe the first climate-neutral continent in 2050. At the moment, however, the ambitious program is only addresses. What, therefore, are the intermediate objectives and, above all, by which trajectories we intend to pursue them still is not clear. In order to implement the energy transition, therefore, some prerequisites are essential: when we talk about Europe, we need to know that today only 10% of CO2 emissions are contributed to global emissions. ( [[Applause]] ). Most non-EU countries (China, India, Russia and others) do not anticipate CO2 reductions with binding targets. So, since competitiveness is global, let's think about it before we stress our companies again with further goals, since they already have a strong cost gap not only compared to EU countries, but above all to third countries. ( [[Applause).]] Italy's energy dependency is 78 percent against the European average of 54 percent. This percentage rises to 93 percent for gas supply. This is a strong geopolitical criticality for Italy. Our country, in line with the European clean energy package, at the beginning of the year adopted the national integrated plan for energy and climate with 2030 targets challenging in terms of greater production of energy from renewable sources, phase-out from coal, greater efficiency and lower greenhouse gas emissions. The PNIEC is an important development factor, as economic impacts of 300 billion between investments and added value and social impacts are assessed with about 140,000 new employees. Unfortunately, as things are progressing, those goals will hardly be achieved. The PNIEC states another important thing that many do not want to see and, that is, that over the next thirty years the energy transition will have to be accompanied by gas, which will therefore still be fundamental and strategic to replace the most polluting fossil sources, also because there are sectors that cannot do without gas such as industrial, ceramics, paper, glass, bricks and others. ( [[Applause).]] When you claim to be a top country in renewable energy and you would like to continue the expansion, granting additional incentives, someone wonders at what price? I tell you: with almost EUR 15 billion of general system charges, which each year weigh 25% on household and business bills. [[Applause.]] So we need less demagogy and serious reflection. Our small and medium-sized enterprises pay 15% more electricity and gas than the European average and this is a big problem. Another important part of the green new deal is the circular economy, which is not an option, but it is a must, an opportunity for the country, and not only to save raw materials and protect the environment, but also to support our businesses, ready to invest. But circular economy is often spoken out of proportion. [[Applause.]] Separate collection is not enough: plants are needed. The circular economy is not done without the plants. While in Lombardy there is an over-energy capacity, in the Centre and in the South there is a lack of composting plants and waste-to-energy. Think that a recent study concludes not only that in our country we need new radiators, for almost 2 million tons, but also that in 2035, if we do not intervene with powerful modernizations, the country will lose at least half of the current capacity of 6 million tons. So, no more NIMBY syndrome. Just say no to the plants that close the waste cycle. [[Applause.]] No more irresponsibility of certain territorial policies. We want to protect the climate, but then, hypocritically, we ignore 200,000 TIR loads of waste that every year leave to the North of the country and abroad, [[Applause]] an imaginary row of 3300 kilometers long vehicles. The three regions that are the protagonists in negative, which do not have facilities to dispose of them, are - alas - Sicily, Campania and above all, black shirt, Lazio. So everyone excited about the green new deal, but could it be that the pollution that causes those 200,000 TIR doesn't interest anyone? [[Applause.]] Colleagues, when discussing sustainable development issues, we must never forget that, alongside environmental issues, we must also ensure the economic sustainability and that of our productions, as well as social sustainability. Not doing so is negligence and irresponsibility, especially at a time like this, when competition is even harsher and the survival of our economic fabric is really decided. The crises we are going through (sanitary, economic, social, environmental, climate and energy) have undermined the certainty on which our Italy system has so far operated. What has been the government's current response to the important issues raised by Italians, on which we will have to deal? The decree relaunches: a long list of favors, without any strategic vision. [[Applause]] ; a measure even useful for the granting of a bicycle for all or an electric scooter, obviously Chinese, instead of implementing here the provisions of the climate decree, which at least provided for the dismantling of cars. [[Applause.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Other than the inconclusive general states, which will serve only Count in order to make yet another press conference on Saturday evening! What is needed is a comparison for the immediate implementation of the national energy and climate plan. We strongly repeat this: on many aspects of that plan, which we also favoured, there is a need for greater adherence to reality. I am thinking of the phase-out of coal in 2025, or of the substantial ban on diesel that you have made: ideological choices that are devoid of reality. It is necessary to really start the decision on renewable energies without ideology, but removing obstacles, often convenient, starting from wind, geothermal and also hydropower. Look: If we want to achieve the targets by 2030, we need to pedal and stop demagogy, immediately and without wasting time. In order to provide certainty for investments, authorisations to plants, in particular existing ones, from renewable sources, must be speeded up, in which modernisation and upgrading operations are to be carried out. Otherwise, Minister, the objective of increasing solar energy production capacity by 2.5 times and doubling wind power capacity, instead of 2030, will be achieved in fifty years' time. The issue of mobility must be revisited without ideology, so that, in the face of scrapping, incentives are also provided for the purchase of vehicles with the latest generation of Euro 6 thermal motorization, with very low emissions. [[Applause]] It is absurd to give incentives from now to 2030 only to 6 million full electric or hybrid machines, with a potential of incentives of 36 billion. The moratorium on oil & gas research must also be suspended in order to make the most of our geo-resources. The entire Italian sector cannot be sank because of the delays of the Ministries, for the preparation of the plan of the sustainable energy transition of the suitable areas. The country cannot be condemned to greater energy slavery from abroad, which also means much more emissions, since the gas we have to import with oil tankers or pipelines, not to mention the loss of investment (almost 2 billion), as well as the loss of jobs and the renunciation of more revenue for the state coffers deriving from the payment of the fees. Without prejudice, it is necessary to intervene in the decarbonisation of buildings by investing in district heating, since domestic heating, rather than mobility, is the main cause of air pollution. [[Applause]] , with an incidence of 60% for ultra-thin dusts. In conclusion, Minister Costa, the League has never changed its mind on the subject. The League, which is for the freedom of enterprise, for the certainty of the law and of the times for investments, which has the culture of environmental sustainability, but above all economic and social, will always move in the name of reasonableness and pragmatism, as an actor of support and not of obstacle of enterprises, research and innovation. The vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will also be in favour of the motions of the Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia Groups, while on the majority motion it will not vote on the premises and will distinguish on the various points of the commitments requested from the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u125	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, fellow senators, government representatives, Minister Costa, the spread of Covid-19 is linked to underestimating the impact of human activities on the environment. Climate warming is a sort of slow-motion pandemic and will not end with the end of this emergency. What we are experiencing is a very particular and unique historical moment, which clearly explains to us that we must rely on science. So I wonder why we asked science to solve our problems with the Covid-19, but then sometimes we don't want to listen to it, when it talks about climate change, when it tells us about the problems that exist at global level because - let's be clear - when the emergency comes from Covid-19, the climate will still be there. The health emergency has caused the peoples of each country to unite to fight a common enemy, creating a single global front, a single community. We must do the same thing about the climate: with the same strength, with the same determination and resilience that we have had at the moment, from which we are leaving, we must face the climate emergency. In this period CO2 emissions have slowed down in the atmosphere; and I say slow down because - look - the CO2 in the atmosphere is: we have reached 417 ppm. Carbon dioxide has a permanence in the atmosphere of 100 and more years and therefore we will continue to serve a history of past emissions. Instead, in this period of detention other pollutants have decreased, those called pm5, pm10, the so-called NOx; for this reason we have felt a thinner air, let's say that we breathe better, the planet has breathed. But one thing must be taken care of. If we continue to say - as Europe also tells us - that in 2050 we want climate neutrality, so we are doing a series of actions to eliminate carbon dioxide, sustainable plants and technologies must be carried out; unfortunately thermodynamics and science teach that a combustion creates carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, creates NOx, SOx, aromatic aliphatic hydrocarbons (IPA), can create dioxins (depending on what is burned). So I say we try to rely on science and maybe not to talk so generally about the various technologies. Apart from that, unfortunately, the health emergency has put at risk another very important thing: the meetings we had to have to define strategies for the conservation of biodiversity and climate. Practically the Cop 26 slipped to 2021, as well as the Cop 15 for the Biodiversity Convention, which was scheduled for October in China. Unfortunately, we too in Italy with Minister Costa, whom we thank, had to carry out the Youth Cop and the so-called pre-Cop, but these too were postponed to 2021. Meetings of this kind must not go into the background, because it is not only Greta or our young people in the squares or the scientific world who are asking us at this time for a change in concrete actions; the world of economy and finance also asks us for it, because everything is connected. It may seem obvious, but finding solutions for the climate emergency means finding solutions for our future in general, for our economic model, for our own health. With the green new deal Europe is in fact proposing an economic pact not only between countries, but among all stakeholders, therefore industry, associations, policy makers, so we have all the citizenship. It is clear that the old economic model has failed and that the new way must be green and absolutely based on the circular economy, which is not greenwashing because our Italian companies are very good at being able to rebuild this reverse supply chain; of course they need support from the Government, which is working with all its strength. Clearly, companies and technologies that are truly sustainable and low-impact must be supported. Another thing I want to talk to you about is that in the end we do not realize how wrong an economic model can be; for example, some time ago the price of oil dropped because demand fell because of the blockade. When we talk about sustainable development we mean that we have to leave stocks of non-renewable fuels like oil to future generations, so we had to be happy that oil should not be extracted, but it remained there for future generations. Instead, prices have fallen, they have competed with renewable energies, which we are moving forward, but also with our Italian companies because recycled products and materials are now competing with virgin raw materials, because of course they are made from oil and natural gas. That means we have to change the pattern, we have to review everything. This new model must be economic and ecological. As I said before, the climate emergency requires the awakening of a collective responsibility, an effort on a global scale. We need prevention plans; in these weeks of virus management we have been able to observe what it means to fight against something we do not know, because of course there was nothing before; for this reason we have to carry out clear prevention plans. Climate change requires mitigation and adaptation measures. The climate emergency was declared by 1,432 jurisdictions, by Municipalities and Nations, and in Italy the Government, with our Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, had the ability to take charge of an indefinite spectrum such as coronavirus. We faced him head-on. Now all the Movimento 5 Stars demands that the theme of the climate emergency be addressed with the same force and we will do so. We will do this because a child born today will live a world that will be more than four degrees warmer than the pre-industrial average, with climate change affecting human health, from childhood to adolescence, adulthood and old age. It is true that at this moment in the basket of daily concerns of a parent there are bills to pay, a sick child or how to think about the livelihood of one's own family. So the concern for the climate is a project that may seem maybe in the long term, it's like some kind of background noise. Unfortunately, the climate is perceived in this way; the environment is perceived as something external. We've experienced the virus on our own, but the climate is a little far away. Unfortunately, this is not the case; it is all connected. This is the time to put on the same footing not what is called a phenomenon or a problem, but our own life. Very often what do our daily life and urban life lead us to? In the cities we move from an air-conditioned apartment to an air-conditioned car, to work in an air-conditioned office. We are less and less exposed to the natural climate. In some extreme cases a person can get out of the house, dive in a meter and pass the office, practically without ever seeing the sky and most people don't even know where the water flowing into his tap comes from. Our human civilization of the age of the anthropocene has a very abstract and distant idea of the natural world and, even more so, of the climate, since it is not seen and not touched. That's our problem. But I would also remind you that in 2017, the World Health Organization warned that viral, bacterial or parasite infections would be one of the most significant threats to the planet, precisely because of climate change. I shall conclude by saying that we are living in a moment of responsibility. We need an ecological conversion of the economy and society. I tell you the words of Pope Francis: "It is necessary to unite the whole human family in the search for sustainable and integral development." Our government is bringing a great cultural revolution: energy efficiency, tree planting, drilling stops, mobility bonuses and incentives for the purchase of green vehicles, energy efficiency and much more. Italy must play a fundamental role in this context and our Government has the ability and the strength to carry on this battle. It'll be a long way, but together we'll make it. That is why today the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of our motion recognising the climate emergency, the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda. [[Applause]] for the rights of all citizens, because no one must be left behind, in order to achieve equity and for our children who ask us for a house in which to have a future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u126	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Having every motion a different structure of opinions and rewordings, please pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u129	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, following on from the path we have taken, in order to give us the opportunity to strongly support the effort and to vote in favour of the part of the motion that we share, we ask that we put to the vote by separate parties not only the premises and the operative part of motion No 194, but that we further separate the vote of points 6, 7 and 9 of the motion, because we support all the points except those three. We are opposed to points 6 and 7, and we will abstain on point 9, while we ask for the possibility of making a responsible contribution to a united path on the rest of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u130	Senator Ferrari, is this okay? Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u133	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group calls for the same possibility to be given to us, i.e. to vote separately on the premises and points 6, 7 and 9 of the commitments. We shall vote in favour of the other points in the motion for a resolution No 194.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u134	Senator Iannone, I was careful to follow your intervention and I missed that exceptionally you intervened from the place, where you always have to intervene wearing the mask. Senator Briziarelli, I didn't understand if your proposal is to vote separately on the premises or just a few points of the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u135	As far as the premises are concerned, we agreed that all motions would be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u136	No, it's not. Anyway, tell me what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u137	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). As Senator Arrigoni announced, our vote on the premises will be against. We shall then vote in favour of all the points in the system, with the exception of points 6, 7 and 9). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. How you intend to vote is a de cuius. I'm asking you for the voting order. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Foreword, 6), 7) and 9). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, that was clear. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We shall vote against the premises and points 6 and 7, while abstaining on point 9).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u138	Okay, that's clear. I would remind the House that the Government gave a favourable opinion on the whole text of the motion. We shall proceed to two votes. The first vote is on the premises and points 6 and 7 of the proposal. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 6 and 7 of the motion No 194 (text 5), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion No. 194 (text 5), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Comments]] Senator Briziarielli, I understood that the request was to proceed with two separate votes and not three. I received this signal from your Group, but did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u139	Mr President, we asked for two votes on the proposal; we were against points 6 and 7, and we voted against them on the grounds. We are abstaining on point 9). Let's vote on the rest. We have asked for a separate vote on the part on which we abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u140	His group had sent me discordant signals. I shall therefore cancel the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 9) of motion No 194 (text 5), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion No. 194 (text 5), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). Colleagues, with this system it is more difficult to vote. One moment of patience, I do not declare the vote closed because some posts cannot be voted on. Senator Verducci, what's going on? I'm having trouble hearing it. [[Brusio.]] I apologise to colleagues, but there are technical problems that do not depend on me. I shall cancel the vote. I ask the assistants to intervene on Senator Verducci's position and to quickly resolve the problem. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion No. 194 (text 5), tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u143	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, we call for motion No 198 to be voted on in the same way as motion No 194 (text 5), that is to say separately the premise and then the parts of the commitments, those on which the Government's opinion is favourable and those on which there is the opposite opinion for the failure to accept the rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u146	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to ask the House whether we want to vote separately on the procedure we are using, not to be late at night, first on the parts on which the Government has spoken against and then on the parts on which it has expressed itself in favour, possibly with the acceptance of the rewordings, so that we can manage with two votes for each motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u147	Are there any comments on these voting methods? But the question, Mr Calderoli, is that in this case opinions were expressed with partially accepted rewordings, partly not.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u148	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u149	The problem is that in this motion, in particular, no reformulation has been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u152	Mr Ferrari (PD). President, just to remind you of the opinions: the Government is opposed to the premises and is opposed to commitments no. 1), 2), 4), 5, 9, 11 and 13). These commitments, with the contrary opinion of the Government, must be voted on together with the premises; on the other commitments the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u153	So, we're still gonna do it. The problem was that no reformulation had been accepted. So let's vote first on the parts of the text on which the Government has expressed the opposite opinion, that in the case of Senator Iannone's first-signed motion are the premises and the points that have just been listed by Senator Ferrari. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1), 2, 4, 5, 9, 11 and 13 of the motion No 198 (text 2), tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the remaining commitments of the provisions, I believe that a rewording had been proposed, which the proposers had refused. So, if that is the case, the government representative's opinion remains the opposite. Otherwise Senator Iannone will be able to communicate to me, as colleagues from Forza Italia have done, if he has changed his understanding.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u156	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, if I have understood correctly, we have just voted on the premises of our motion and on the commitments of the part of the provisions on which the representative of the Government had requested a rewording, which we rejected and on which, therefore, it was expressed against. The remaining commitments, which can now be put to the vote, are those on which the representative of the Government gave a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u157	Senator Ferrari listed the commitments on which it had been expressed against and then I found that there were commitments on which a rewording had been requested, which Senator Ferrari did not list. Maybe there was annoyance, but I think that's exactly how it was.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u160	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am sorry, it is not so easy, objectively, to vote so many times, but we have made an effort to try to do so many together and I would say that it is worth completing it. It seems to me to recall that the Minister's opinion was fully in favour of commitments no. 3), 6), 7), 8, 10, 12) and 14. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Subject to rewording. Mr Ferrari (PD). No, not subject to reformulation. The Minister has given us strong opinions, so as such we are prepared to vote for them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u161	Let's Riverify. Can the government representative confirm that? Because the office records were different. Was the opinion not subject to rewording?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u162	If you want to list them again.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u163	You can list them for me, but the question is whether or not they are reworded. If the opinion is in favour without rewording, we can put them to the vote quietly without you reading them again.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u164	I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u165	Great. The opinion was in favour of the commitments as they were written, without rewording. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 3), 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 and 14 of the motion No 198 (text 2), tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). With regard to motion No 199 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, the Government gave an opposite opinion on the premises, an opinion contrary to points 1), (2) and (6) and then a favourable opinion following the wording on points 3), 4 and 5).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u168	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in the light of the opinions proposed by the Government, we call for a split vote with a vote on the parts on which there is the opposite opinion, or in favour but conditional on a rewording that we did not accept, namely on the premises, on point 1, on point 2, on point 4, on which there is a proposal for rewording that we did not accept and on point 6). We call for a separate vote to be taken on points 3 and 5, on which the Government has proposed a rewording, which we have accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u169	It's consistent with what we wrote down. We follow the method used previously. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1), 2, 4 and 6 of the motion No 199 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 3 and 5 of the motion No 199 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 244 (text 3), tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 244 (text 3), tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u170	The Governing Board, meeting on 9 June 2020, delivered the following opinion: Without prejudice to the presence at least of the President or Vice President of the Commission and the Head of the Secretarial Office, participation by videoconference to the work of the Presidency Offices shall also be permitted to members of the Commission, in view of the current epidemiological emergency situation, until 31 August 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u171	I communicate that on June 8, 2020 the President of the Council of Ministers received the following letter: "Gentile Presidente, the article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as amended by the law of conversion No 35 of 2020, provides that the President of the Council of Ministers or a Minister delegated by him to Parliament first illustrious the content of the measures implementing the containment measures in order to avoid the spread of the virus Covid-19, in order to take into account any addresses formulated by the Chambers. In this regard, as anticipated by the Minister for Relations with Parliament, I confirm that I have delegated the Minister of Health to report to the Senate of the Republic, in the time and in the manner that he wishes to indicate. I inform you that I have addressed a similar letter to the President of the House of Deputies. With heartfelt cordiality, Giuseppe Conte. Therefore, as communicated to the Groups, the agenda of the session of tomorrow previews, at 17, the communications of the Minister of Health on the content of the measures of implementation of the containment measures in order to avoid the diffusion of the virus Covid-19, pursuant to article 2, paragraph 1, of the decree-law n. 19 of 2020, as amended by the law of conversion n. 35 of 2020. For the discussion, three hours were allocated to the Groups, including explanations of vote. The Minister's reply and explanations of vote are scheduled for direct television.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u174	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, with my speech I would like to express, on behalf of my Group, my regret for what has been happening in recent weeks, when the political debate in this House has turned into a disgusting theater, conducted - alas - by the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, based on insults, lies and slanders. [[Applause]] , with the sole aim of nourishing the controversy and distracting attention from the real problems that grip our country. I would like to quote a sentence from Oscar Wilde, but I would like to say it more to myself and some of the Lombard Senators of the League: Never argue with an idiot. It drags you to its level and beats you with experience. [[Applause.]] Of everything that occurred the explanation was given by the former director of the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), Ferruccio De Bortoli: Lombardy and Milan represent Italy that succeeds in the world. Pointing your finger against lightens the conscience of those who fail to do the same. [[Applause.]] As I said, they shifted attention from the real problems of the country because they did not spend a word on all the promises made and not kept, for all those workers who have been waiting for weeks, or for a few months, the integration fund and contributions. Not a word spent on accountants, who have been left alone, and who have given the utmost effort throughout the lockdown phase. The absolute silence with respect to the statements made by Saviano, who accused the accountants of pushing the companies in crisis towards the deadly embrace of crime. This is unacceptable. Total silence. Nothing has been said for the release of the Mafia bosses: 306 are still out of prison; only 50 have returned. [[Applause.]] No word on the agricultural world, which said no to the maxi sanatoria of the illegals. But we must acknowledge one thing: so many words have you spent on Lombardy and Governor Fontana, and all the hatred you have injected into society and our country what have they brought? That Governor Fontana is under escort today. [[Applause]] And we've all seen written as a killer and threats to the family. [[Applause]] You can also die from a car accident, and, unlike you, Senator Salvini has given closeness and solidarity to Minister Azzolina, also under escort; from you a grave silence. And, then, you who have shouted "honesty, honesty, honesty" from the benches of this House, from the balconies, in the squares, colleagues, that is not honesty. It's inability, it's bullying. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u175	I am obliged to tell you that, despite the quote, it is very inappropriate to give epithets such as what you used.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u178	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, Roberto Antioch was born in Terni on 7 June 1962. Two days ago, he was going to celebrate his birthday. He became a policeman at the age of eighteen; he served in Turin, at the Criminalpol in Rome and then at the mobile team in Palermo under the command of commissioner Beppe Montana in the Catturandi team, famous for the operation Pizza Connection. In July 1985 Antioch from Palermo was transferred to Rome, but after the murder of Commissioner Montana, on 29 July 1985, he decided to return voluntarily to Palermo to contribute to the investigation of the murder of the official and to be close to Ninni Cassarà, deputy director of the mobile team, friend of Roberto Antioch and author of the investigation of the Montana crime. At 3.20 p.m. on 6 August 1985, a commando of ten men killed Ninni Cassarà and Roberto Antioch, who had tried to shield him with his own body in one of the most heinous Mafia attacks of those years. The city of Terni recalled Roberto Antioch yesterday by presenting at the police station a documentary film that traces his life, his battle for legality, his sense of duty, his love for his country and, as his brother Alessandro called it, his being stainless in choices and objectives. The commitment that I want to make, together with the civil and military authorities of my city, is that this day and this document become not a mere moment of remembrance, but a possibility for the new generations to know a history of civil commitment and struggle for legality in order to treasure them for the continuation of life and increase their awareness of the historical and institutional value of the fight against the mafias and the memory of the victims of the mafias. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u181	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to point out to the attention of this House the state of neglect, not to mention abandonment, in which the territory surrounding the high-speed station in Naples Afragola, Campania, flows. In a territory already torn apart by the strong presence of camorristic and malavitous organizations, which for years have lucato with illegal spills of toxic waste causing the consequent contamination of the soil and the infiltration of the aquifers, the presence of the new station, despite the difficulties and mechanisms little transparent used during its realization, could and had to represent reason for opportunity and re-launch of the territory, with obvious repercussions from the occupational point of view. Unfortunately, the incompetence, the lack of transparency, the lack of attention and foresight in the management and organizational planning of the whole area both by the Metropolitan City of Naples and by the Municipality of Afragola have made it possible to realize the state of degradation that is under the eyes of all: heaps of waste abandoned on the sides of the roadway, which often hinder normal circulation, by people who define uncivilized is little and who do not have the culture of the common environment and the territory. Every kind of material is spilled, remaining without being removed, almost to certify the carelessness of man and his contempt for nature. Roads destroyed without any maintenance are flooded at the first rainfalls with considerable risks for road safety. All this not only creates considerable inconveniences to residents or to those who use the station for work or travel, but we must consider and highlight the significant negative impact on tourists who use the railway station for its strategic position, preferring it as a starting point for other tourist destinations of our Campania Region by taking advantage of buses or other means of transport on rubber. What business card do we present to those who often come from places where culture and attention to the environment and territory is at the top of the scale of administrative know-how? Despite repeated demands from citizens and local committees, nothing has changed. Therefore, prompt and indispensable maintenance, ordinary and extraordinary, by the bodies concerned previously mentioned to restore the right decorum and the indispensable safety to the whole area. The conditions of the territory require immediate answers, without the usual and repetitive discharge of responsibility. We'll be vigilant and careful. I am confident that a rapid and positive response will be given to this problem. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u184	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank the senators who have remained in an empty Chamber. I will try to be brief because the purpose of this intervention is to draw the attention of the Government to a question that I have recently filed but which, in itself, is a reply to what I already asked for exactly a year ago, just after the visit of President Xi Jinping, which gave rise to the Memorandum of Understanding on the Silk Road. This happened, as you remember, exactly on March 23, 2019. Subsequently to this, I questioned the Government in order to understand which relapses the announced agreements would have had on my territory, in particular way in the port of Trieste, that is one of the more interested realities, like other ports of call and other ports of our Country (I think to Genoa, to Taranto and other realities). To the question last year I was answered by the vice minister Galli, that he did not provide any detail regarding the plans of development announced, intercession between Authorities of harbour system Triestina and Chinese partners, being they definable in the ways and in the times that the same Harbour Authority would have considered more opportune. In reality, it is news precisely of these days that a resolution of the national anticorruption Authority (ANAC) has declared the position of the president of the Authority of harbour system of Trieste, Dr. Zeno D'Agostino, inconferible. Not incompatible, but irreconcilable. Obviously we do not enter into the legal aspects of this affair, which will be dealt with by the TAR of Lazio, as announced by Dr. D'Agostino's appeal and as announced by the Government. In fact, the Government will oppose this resolution, being an administrative act of the DAC and not a judgment; but I remember that, pursuant to Article 4 of Legislative Decree No. 39 of 2013, it is claimed that its position is inconferable. I do not enter in the merit of the reflections that this new situation brought to the attention from ANAC will have respect to the completed acts from the President of the Authority of harbour system and to the relationships that the Government itself says to have delegated to the harbour Authorities to carry out with the Chinese, in particular with the CCCC-China Communications Construction Company, that is a society of the Government of China, that it will enter in the port of Trieste and in the free points of that port. Then we asked - and Forza Italia certainly cannot be denied - for Parliament to speak on this matter, because we were before a treaty and not a simple understanding, as the Government called it, which as such required, in accordance with Article 80 of the Constitution, the approval by the Chambers. On this, sooner or later, it will not be the administrative judiciary that will decide, with regard to the conferability or not of an assignment, because the substance of these agreements - the effects that these agreements will have on our territory, on our port, with respect also to Europe - I believe is the central issue, on which our Group, forever, is at the forefront, not for a stupidly protectionist position, but certainly for the protection of our system of life, when this could be, in part, threatened by a power that evidently wants to pursue a hegemonic plan in the world, which is not consistent and compatible (in this case I would speak of inconferibility) with respect to our system of life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u185	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-226.ana.u186	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 10 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.
