ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:39 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u3	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1492, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u4	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, ratifying an agreement based in February 2019 between Italy and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, which is the place where the parliamentary dimension of the Union for the Mediterranean is built. It is an organisation composed of 43 European countries and the Mediterranean area, including the southern shore, which aims to ensure stability and integration in the area. It does not have executive tasks, but it is a place of discussion and building relationships in an area for us strategically. This is why in March 2018 the Presidents of the Chambers proposed that the Permanent Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly should be based in Rome. The choice was then adopted unanimously by all the countries in the political office that took place in Brussels and today we are asking to be able to vote in relation to that unanimously chosen agreement for which the Permanent Secretariat is established in Rome. The article consists of five articles. The total cost is 35,000 euros and there are no profiles of incompatibility with national law, European law and international obligations. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u5	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u8	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, all the ratifications of international agreements under discussion this morning in this House, which have already been approved by the House, do not present any critical issues for us of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. I therefore think it is appropriate to declare, on behalf of my Group, the vote in favour of all the ratification measures under discussion today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u11	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the measure under consideration and the subsequent ratifications under consideration, given the broad consensus that has also taken place during the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on all draft ratification laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u14	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are preparing today to ratify a number of international agreements. I, too, in advance, on behalf of the Italian Group Viva-PSI, announce the favorable vote on all the ratifications that we will discuss this morning, precisely because of the value of the measures that, in the face of small or relatively small amounts of investment, promote friendship and collaboration with a whole series of countries, either in the field of promotion of cultural relations, scientific and technical deepening, or in the field of defence or judicial cooperation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u17	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration ratifies the agreement between Italy and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean (UPM), already a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (EPAM), with regard to the premises of the intergovernmental association located in Rome. The agreement, which consists of seven articles and two annexes, following the allocation decided unanimously by the Bureau of the UPM in July 2018, regulates the making available of the property located in the monumental complex "Good Shepherd" in Via della Penitenza 37. It is an international agreement, as I understand it, of a short time. I welcome my Group's vote on this measure and I also welcome the other ratifications of the international conventions that are currently under discussion, and I naturally vote in line with our Group's position in the Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u20	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I am very surprised to hear the preventive explanations of vote of the parliamentary groups before the general debate took place and the explanations of vote of each group were expressed. Now, it is okay that Parliament is now systematically trampled on, but rituals also want their form. We are here and the Rules of Procedure, of which you are a teacher, provide that each Group has the opportunity to ask for a general debate and to make an explanation of vote; in a completely theoretical way, some of us, if at some point we were to say something particularly intelligent, could persuade its fellow senators to take a position rather than another. How do we - I am referring to all the groups - declare in a preventive way, from here to the end of the debate, whatever happens and is said or whatever consideration is made, that we have already decided how to vote, because perhaps someone wrote it to us on our notes? Brothers of Italy will listen to what everyone has to say, will consider every single word that will be said and will express in conscience everything that will be put to the vote today.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u23	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, fellow senators, members of the Government, on 13 July 2018 in Brussels, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union decided to have its permanent secretariat in Rome. After twenty-five years, a project that starts from the 1995 Barcelona Declaration and sees our country hosting the seat of the aforementioned Secretariat, which - it cannot escape - reaffirms the centrality of Italy, not only by geographical position, but above all political. In the seven articles that make up the agreement, it is clear that our Government, in addition to providing the premises and drawing the necessary regulatory framework of the staff called to participate, does not see any additional expenses. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars voted in favour of the bill No 1492.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u24	I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1506, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would point out that, since a suspensive question has been raised, it will have to be voted by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. I therefore call on colleagues in the forums to activate their iPads. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, for the ratification of the cooperation agreement on education, university and scientific research, signed in April 2012 by Italy and Qatar. Italy has, as you know, good relations with the authorities of Doha, also because of a consonance of views on many regional issues, as well as on the support of applications submitted by Italy in international fora, so much so that in recent years there is a significant intensification of collaboration in various areas of bilateral interest. The cooperation agreement before us, consisting of a short preamble and 13 articles, aims to extend bilateral cooperation on education, university and scientific research and aims to establish a framework for direct cooperation programmes between educational and university institutions. The draft law ratifying the agreement consists of five articles. For the purpose of covering the related economic charges, Article 3 allows a total annual expenditure of EUR 1946,165 from 2019 onwards. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, EU law, or other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u27	I would like to inform you that the question of suspensive QS1 has been raised. He asked Senator Fazzolari to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u28	Mr President, the Group of Brothers of Italy calls for the ratification of this agreement to be postponed until we have clarified certain issues relating to Qatar more clearly. The Government has remembered that between Italy and Qatar there is already a series of agreements; it is true, Italy and Qatar have a series of important trade agreements, collaborate on certain dossiers, for example in Libya. In this case, however, we are not talking about making an agreement to reduce, for example, the use of anti-personnel mines, we are entering into an agreement of a cultural, formative nature; to say that in terms that are now in fashion, we have an international agreement to promote mutual contamination between Italy and Qatar. It is therefore necessary to enter into the merit of what is the culture with which we ask to contaminate ourselves through exchanges of students, university exchanges, the possibility of paying scholarships, the possibility of establishing university collaborations, of teaching Arabic in Italy, etc. Who do we want to contaminate with? We want to contaminate ourselves with a State, Qatar, which proudly declares itself to be a Salafist State, therefore an Islamic fundamentalist, and which applies Sharia within it, providing for the supremacy of Sharia over national laws in its own system. I recall that in Qatar there is no equality of rights between men and women: just to give some examples, in court a woman's testimony is worth half that of a man and may not be accepted; we know that women have discrimination in the areas of matrimonial law, divorce, inheritance, nationality, child protection, and that is a first point. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask that we speak in a more appropriate context.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u29	Colleagues, there is more buzz right in the benches next to the senator who is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u30	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, thank you. If you could invite anyone who is not interested in leaving the Chamber, we would be delighted. I remember that in Qatar, as in all the Islamic countries in which Sharia is applied, the practice of brides girls is allowed: in virtue of Aisha (name that we remember because it was recently hired by someone), a girl married to Muhammad between the age of six and nine, in countries that apply Sharia, including Qatar, marriages with girls of that age are allowed; in case of adultery there are 100 lashes; in case of adultery, if the woman is Muslim and the man is not, the death penalty is also provided, because there is an aggravating that we do not understand; in schools, of course, girls are separated from boys. In Qatar torture is allowed, not according to the kind of laws that run in Italy, but with the prediction of corporal punishments, for alcohol consumption, in case of theft and in case of illicit sexual intercourse, and here we do not know well what they refer to. To the great sensitivity of some of our colleagues, among whom I see Senator Cirinna, I remember that in Qatar homosexuality is a crime, which includes the death penalty, but, their goodness, they have not applied it for a long time and for homosexuals it is only expected the imprisonment, usually of three or five years. There is a total lack of religious freedom. I remember that the crime of apostasy is punished with the death penalty and, if by virtue of our agreement, at some point, in the contamination, some qatariata who comes to Italy should be convinced that he is interested in other religion than Islam, he returns to his homeland and risks the death penalty. For proselytism there are ten years in prison. Criminal liability in Qatar begins at the age of seven. So, drawing the Government's attention to an important issue, we expect our children's cultural exchange also in schools between Italy and Qatar; let's send, for example, a ten-year school girl to Qatar. If the child in Qatar commits a crime, according to the qatariota law he is fully responsible, even if he is seven years old. Among the crimes that can be challenged to the child, there is also, for example, proselytism: if the child prays to Jesus Child before going to sleep, he risks ten years in prison. It is useless for me to do so, tell Qatar if it does not like that law, go to Qatar and say that the law is ignoble, medieval and that we do not accept it, but do not sign a collaboration agreement with Qatar. As far as human rights are concerned, it is not we of Brothers of Italy who raise these questions: let me point out that in all international fora Qatar has been called upon in these areas, by your dear Amnesty International and by the various non-governmental organizations (NGOs). You don't have to look into the biography of the sovereigns to see what human rights violations are in Qatar. Speaking of workers' rights - since the subject is very sensitive and there are people who are moved by talking about laborers - I remind you that in Qatar there is the practice of kafala and that is a foreign worker who arrives in Qatar, is in fact at the slavery service of his employer until he pays back the cost of the trip he has incurred to arrive in Qatar. This practice was denounced by all international organisations, with particular reference to the 2022 World Championship Organisation. This agreement, however, was signed in 2012, in a very ancient geological era compared to today because in the meantime the worsening of the war in Syria has occurred, there have been a series of conflicts and it has been defined a geopolitical confrontation in the Gulf between Qatar and Saudi Arabia, which, as we know, although both fundamentalist Islamic countries, contend the supremacy of fundamentalism in the Sunni world. This has meant that relations between Qatar, Turkey, Muslim Brotherhoods, on the one hand, and Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the Arab Emirates, etc., on the other hand, have been particularly aggravated and worsened in recent years. We all remember that there is a series of actions denouncing the aiding of terrorism by these states against Qatar and therefore in the conclusion of this agreement there are also geopolitical implications. We are therefore openly taking sides in a dispute between Gulf monarchies. Are we just doing this because we have not understood what we are voting on today or are we doing it consciously? In conclusion, the call for a suspensive issue is simply a request to postpone the debate until we have clarified two aspects: the accusations of aiding terrorism by several states to Qatar (chiariamole, also in a geopolitical context) and all the accusations of violation of fundamental human rights in Qatar. I believe that once we have made this clear, we will be able to vote for this agreement with greater freedom and awareness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u31	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak in the debate on the suspensive issue for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u34	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this buzz in this House often surrounds our debates and our meetings on the issues of ratifications of international agreements. This is not the first time we have discussed international agreements, but we do so - let me say this - with this somewhat distracted attitude, with this basic chatter and with a little carelessness, in a climate that I would like to define (by praying to my colleagues to be silent and pay attention) of unanimity that often surrounds these choices. Unanimism is not an added value of the policy of confrontation and debate, rather it is a superficiality, an inattention, if not even, in some cases, a real hypocrisy. I come to the merit of the ratification in question, which - as has been anticipated - Brothers of Italy does not share, do not subscribe and even ask for suspension. With this intervention we not only want to break this climate - which we do not like in this case - of unanimity, but we want to draw attention (because we need it) to why this agreement should not be ratified. Of course we know very well the important links that exist between Italy and Qatar: they are economic ties and linked to the military industry and does not escape anyone who in the last year and a half have thickened with a succession of official visits and - I emphasize - also unofficial, but nevertheless important, all to pay tribute to the emir al-Thani. Many visits have also been returned. In short, this emirate overlooking the Arabian Gulf naturally attracts a lot of attention, despite the closeness to the Muslim Brotherhood (this we should remember to those who go on pilgrimage) and despite the emirate's preference for the most extreme fundamentalism. And even those visits made by exponents or the emir of Qatar in Italy must not please us when they turn out - and have turned out to be - a supermarket shopping, because you come to Italy not to finance charity, but to buy entire luxury properties and not only real estate. I think - for example - of having taken 49 percent of the Meridiana airline; I think of the Excelsior Hotel Gallia in Milan, the Four Seasons Hotel in Florence or some hotels on the Costa Smeralda, the Maison Valentino. Not to mention - and I don't want - the interests related to the football sector, also in view of the 2020 World Championships, and other issues I will talk about later. So, supermarket shopping and economic profit at the highest level. This, of course, to the benefit of Qatar's investment funds. Therefore, assiduous exchanges of non-random visits, because the direction is to profit more, also because it will not escape anyone who more than 80 percent of the qatariata export to Italy revolves around liquefied gas, which is then treated in Italy, of companies that, however - by chance - are of co-ownership of Qatar Petroleum. And we could continue. But let's come to other points. You may also object that Qatar, during the pandemic, gave us 260 tons of goods, but this is not solidarity. It is always the protection of that primary interest that I said before. And we are not convinced - indeed, quite the contrary - by the content of this Agreement in which we talk about universities, scientific research and training. Well, ladies and gentlemen - I want to tell you with sentiment - it does not stand up; it cannot stand up to this civil framework of universities, training and scientific research; and do you know why? Because no agreement is made, because no agreement is possible, as far as Brothers of Italy are concerned, with those who come to our country to do grocery shopping. Not only that. I would like to mention a dossier, not by Brothers of Italy but by two French journalists, the notorious "Qatar papers" which tells us in detail - I am talking about 2014 - of 71 million euros to build about 113 Islamic prayer centers throughout Europe through Qatar Charity. They come to Islamise Europe and Italy under the cover of charity when all of us, so you too, know very well what lies behind all this. Why, then, do you want to close your eyes when all this is of extreme evidence? Beyond some lawful agreements of an energy and military nature, you do not have to close your eyes, we do not have to, we cannot close our eyes behind the interests of the petrodollar who serves to Islamize our country and to favor - we mean clearly - the dangerous drift of radical Islamic extremism, which is favoured by this country. Brothers of Italy does not and will never make agreements with those who preserve the crime of apostasy and blasphemy. Brothers of Italy does not make agreements with those who persecute Christian brothers. Brothers of Italy does not make agreements with those who persecute every religious minority in the country. And then, I want to say, Brothers of Italy - but I think no one should - does not make agreements with those who impose the supremacy of Sharia, with those who impose an uncivilized customary right. Precisely because the Agreement includes cultural aspects, Brothers of Italy defends the Italian and European confessional heritage; Brothers of Italy defends the Italian and European cultural identity, our historical path. Brothers of Italy does not make agreements - and should not make any - with those who contradict human rights. I repeat what my colleague Mr Fazzolari has already said: how can you accept an agreement with a country that systematically violates human rights? And yet - I am not just telling colleagues - it also violates the rights of women, who are, in effect, human rights. Isn't this religious radicalism, this customary right, this prevalence of Sharia horrifying to you? Do they not horrify everyone like us, who teach their daughters and sisters to be respected? Colleagues, each of us is engaged or has been engaged in equality bodies at institutional, regional and national level. So I ask myself: what are we trying to do here, in favour of women, if we then send our daughters to study in a place where for adultery there is the penalty of a hundred lashes, according to Article 88 of their code, and where there are veiled women, who are hidden from the world and to whom the world is hidden. Mr President, just give me a minute to finish. It is useless to make rhetoric about women's rights and then agree to make agreements with those who - it is true - make them vote and have them elected, but do not let them participate in any social event and keep them secreted, divided in schools and separated from male elements. Colleagues, I really do not understand you, with heart and brain, and I do not understand how you can sign an Agreement with a country, in which the violent tourists who denounce the violence suffered are arrested, in which foreign domestic workers are exploited: go and read Amnesty International's reports - I have done so - on the lives of foreign domestic workers, without any right. It is too easy to defend rights here and allow them to be violated elsewhere. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Rauti. RAUTI (FdI). If I have to choose, as the ratification of the Agreement requires us to do in our examination, I do not choose extreme fundamentalism, but the integrity of human rights and our millenary civilization. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u37	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are not prejudiced by the review of the measure in the Commission and I want to say this very clearly. Let me say, however, that issues, such as those of Muhammad's bride and groom, are certainly of a cultural and historical nature and are an extremely interesting subject. Let us not forget whether on our part, as a political movement, there can be an adherence to principles and values which are obviously contrary to those inscribed in the nature of man, even before our Constitution. But let me say, Mr President, that we are talking about something else in the agreement before us. It would be absurd for an international convention and an agreement with a foreign country to be based on the consideration of positions, perhaps even extreme ones. If that were the case, we wouldn't make any deals with anyone. Recently, in February, the United States signed an international agreement in Doha for the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. The Holy Father meets foreign communities and foreign countries, even if he may not be in tune with their culture and religious tradition. I believe that Italy has the need, in this situation, to look very carefully at the central point of the affair, that is, with whom we make the agreements. However, we cannot forget - I must say this out of intellectual honesty and for the sake of truth - that a large part of the arguments put forward do not fall within the legal body of the Agreement in our examination. This is something we cannot forget, because these aspects are not considered in the Agreement at all. I would add that the Minister Giulio Terzi of Sant'Agata certainly did not have the uzzolo to get himself into this situation, at the time when the Agreement was signed. I have absolutely no violation of these principles in the body of law. International agreements preclude them and this is the reason why I announce that the Forza Italia Group will vote to abstain. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u38	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question QS1, presented by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very, very, very sorry about your distraction. We are not talking about a trade agreement; we are not talking about selling or buying something from Qatar; we are not talking about economy, dear colleagues on the left, beautiful feminist souls, beautiful LGBT souls. That's not what we're talking about here. [[Applause.]] We are talking about fundamental human rights. We are talking about sending young Italians, Christians, who believe in the values of democracy, who believe in equality between the sexes, who believe in respect for cultures, in a country where criminal responsibility takes place at the age of seven. By voting for this agreement, you are taking on a very serious responsibility. And I want you to stick to the record, ladies and gentlemen, that you will vote for it. The name and surname of each of you must remain in the record. Dear colleagues of the League, I would ask you to listen to what will happen if our young minor, perhaps homosexual, is in Qatar in execution of this Agreement for cultural exchanges with that advanced country? If a child of ours, legitimately homosexual, enters into a relationship with a young man in that country, what will happen? It will probably be stoned, because there will be criminal liability.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u40	Senator Balboni, I'm sorry, but the stations have been designed just to allow you to speak in the absence of in fronts. If you turn to the other side, I fear that this measure will fail.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u41	Balboni (FdI). I beg your pardon, Mr. President. What will happen if a young minor of ours has an affair with a married woman in that country or, vice versa, if an Italian girl has an affair with a married man in that country? You realize what you're voting for, don't you? Do you realize what will happen to our young people in that situation? I beg you, ladies and gentlemen. You have rejected the suspensive question: well, then let us reason on the substance. You are voting for an Agreement that violates all the fundamental principles on which our Constitution is based, on which the fundamental pact that holds Italian society together is based. I can understand that there are economic interests. We pursue economic interests, but we protect our young people. We are voting against this absurd agreement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u42	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u45	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I confirm my Group's vote in favour. We understand the legitimate statements of the opposition's colleagues, but I repeat that the measure, on the other hand, is extremely positive, since it provides for cooperation between the two countries in the fields of education, universities and research. It encourages exchanges between students, young people and sports associations. It promotes the learning of each other's languages. Promotes academic cooperation and exchange of information. I believe that, even in countries where there are undoubtedly difficulties, the promotion of mutual relations of friendship and deepening in the cultural and scientific field can only contribute to overcoming any problems and also, in addition to promoting political stabilisation, to the improvement of respect for civil rights. I therefore vote in favour of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u48	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, allow me first of all to express my astonishment at the fact that the Government does not reply. It seems to me that something has been said and that the government could reply by saying that idiotic things have been said or that something intelligent has been said. Having said that, I would like to read you a passage: There was nothing new in the faculty, apart from a star and a rising golden metal moon that had been added to the ancient writing "Université Sorbonne Nouvelle - Paris," but within the administrative buildings the transformations were more visible. In the anteroom was greeted by a photograph of pilgrims who carried out their circumdeambulation around the Ka'ba and the offices were decorated with posters representing verses of the Koran in calligraphy; the secretaries had changed, not even one recognized and were all veiled. This is an excerpt from the novel "Submission" by Houellebecq, and the beauty is that it was then taken up again in France because it was particularly fitting in relation to a situation that then actually arose, namely Qatar financed with 1.8 million euros grants to Syrians strictly Muslims to study at the Sorbonne in Paris. And this has happened because what Qatar is doing in the West is scientific action. I think you all have a notion of the Quatar Papers, because you have followed the debate that has developed internationally and so, of course, I do not want to remind you of them. But Qatar proudly claims the action of proselytism to Islamic fundamentalism leading to the West. As you know, Qatar is the leading state of the Muslim brothers and claims - for example - to have managed to transform the secular Turkey into a Sultanate of Erdogan, thanks to the proselytism of the Muslim brothers that it financed in that country. You are certainly aware of all the controversy carried out by moderate Muslims in Italy, in Europe and in the Arab world of contrast to the phase of fundamentalist proselytism promoted by Qatar. You certainly know them, don't you? I have heard some bizarre things, unfortunately also from colleagues of the Forza Italia Group, such as the fact that we certainly cannot sign international agreements only with the States of which we share everything, otherwise we do not subscribe at all. It is absolutely right and I am very happy that Italy - for example - sold Corvette, through Fincantieri, to Qatar. And I'm also glad Qatar spends part of its money on the Italian economy, but we're not talking about that. With anyone who makes trade or military agreements, and I remember that during the Cold War the agreements on the containment of nuclear weapons between the United States and the Soviet Union were signed. What does that have to do with anything? We are making an agreement with which we legally allow Qatar to do fundamentalist proselytism at home: this is quite different from making an agreement to limit weapons of mass extermination. If someone has not read it, I would point out that the Agreement provides for exchanges of students: therefore our students will go to Qatar and see how beautiful the culture and laws of Qatar are, they will also see that there is no equality of rights between men and women; they will also realize that a Muslim country can proselytize against Christian countries and a Christian, but, if a Christian does it against a Muslim, he is sentenced to ten years of punishment and, if the Muslim converts, the crime of apostasy punished with the death penalty is triggered. Well, we're sending our boys to explain how good this is. Article 3, which consists of a single line, provides that both parties shall encourage the study of the language on the other side. I would like to know from the Government how many billions Italy will spend to teach Italian to the Qatari people; I fear zero euros, while I assure you that Qatar will spend hundreds of millions or billions systematically teaching Arabic in Italian schools and universities. So, let us not fool ourselves by saying that both sides encourage the study of each other's language. We also encourage agreements between universities and admit the possibility of scholarships. Same question: how many billions will Italy spend on scholarships for Qatario students in order to educate them in Western democracy? How many billions will we spend on qatario universities to make them a little less fundamentalist and a little more democratic? Zero euros. How many euros will Qatar spend instead to condition the education of Italian universities? How many billions will you spend on scholarships addressed only to Muslim students or to those who comply with the Qatari versions? I'm telling you, hundreds of millions of euros. Again it would have been enough to read the Qatar papers, because people write, study and document hoping that the legislators will then read all of this. But I'm afraid that didn't happen either. Today we are handing over the keys to our home to the worst Islamic fundamentalism, which, if it is not directly linked to terrorist organisations, surely creates that humus in which Islamic terrorists are formed. That is what we are doing, and the testimonies are really many. I would like to remind you as an example of what Souad Sbai, our former colleague and president of the Moroccan Women's Association in Italy said about the approval of this Agreement in the Chamber of Deputies: he said that, with the vote in favour of the Cooperation Agreement on Education, University and Scientific Research with Qatar, the ports of Italy would be definitively opened to the fundamentalist proselytism of Doha and the Muslim Brotherhood. This statement comes from a courageous Moroccan woman, who recently wrote a book dedicated to Rachida - it is titled "Rachida: an apostate in Italy" - the Moroccan woman killed by her husband and remained in the morgue dozens of days without anyone claiming the body, for the grave fault of having converted to Christianity. This happens in Italy, and it happens within a community where Islam is moderate, the Moroccan one; but it itself denounces how, with the complicity of Western governments, countries like Saudi Arabia and Qatar are being allowed to make systematic fundamentalist propaganda at home, penalising first of all the moderate Islamic communities and creating the humus that then generates those terrorists who kill our people inside the cities. And all this happens for a cowardly complacency towards those who have the money to give occasionally prebenda to some influential organization. We don't bow to this. We will not bow to the Islamization of Europe and Italy and, therefore, Brothers of Italy will vote against this bad Agreement. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u51	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the debate is interesting. I would like to say that it would be appropriate for this House, in addition to taking care of Qatar properly and to ensure that we do not sign blank bills, to also deal with what is happening in other countries at risk. I remember that Qatar has a population that does not reach three million inhabitants and that last week Iranian leader Khamenei called Israel a virus, a cancer, a tumor to be eradicated and Iran has not 3 million inhabitants, but 81 million. Moreover, regarding the shopping of hotels and companies that the friends of Brothers of Italy mentioned earlier, I am also more concerned about the shopping of hotels, companies and sensitive data of Italians, not Qatar, but of the People's Republic of China. ( [[Applause]] ). That is a communist dictatorship populated by 1.5 billion people. It is right to be concerned about human rights everywhere in the world and, therefore, we will not be able to vote in favour of the ratification of this agreement. But it would be time for this House to also worry about a country with which cooperation is taking place and on which there are always silences in this House that make me think of more than one doubt: a political and spiritual leader who defines a democracy like that of Israel as a cancer to be eradicated deserves a debate in the Senate Chamber of the Italian Republic. ( [[Applause]] ). The enemies of Israel are enemies of this Senate and of Italy. As far as the Chinese responsibilities for the spread of the virus are concerned, I think and hope that we will join the request at least to set up a Commission of Inquiry to understand who did and who did not do what, because we could end 2020 with the absurdity of having a single world economy that grows, that is the Chinese one, which, after having voluntarily or unintentionally - it is not up to me to judge - caused a global pandemic, on its rubble buys companies, data, telephony and hotels in Italy and around the world. ( [[Applause]] ). We can't let that happen. I hope, therefore, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come as soon as possible to tell us what the Italian Government's position is on Khamenei's crazy statements, on the Chinese attitude and on the silences of the World Health Organization, of which I ask to be called into question the contributions of the Italian Republic if it does not protect the health of Italian citizens. Last but not least, I think about it. Continuing to wish good life and good luck to Silvia Romano or, indeed, to Aisha, we look forward to having with due caution clarity and certainties about whether or not money has been given to the Islamic extremist and terrorist organization of al-Shabaab, because one account is the cooperation on research and development, another is to give suitcases with millions of euros to those with that money buy weapons to prepare attacks in Italy and in the world. We hope to be able to talk, as well as Qatar's problems, about the problems of extremists all over the world. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u54	FERRARA (M5S). Mr. President, you've had some soup. It is right to remember Israel, but let us also remember the Palestinian people who have been invaded for many decades and who have suffered so much. We, unlike what has been said, believe a lot in scientific and cultural cooperation between States, because it is the best way to consolidate profitable relations between countries. Cooperation and relations are very important and the deputy of Fratelli d'Italia Salvatore Caiata, who went to Qatar and donated the Potenza Calcio shirt, of which I think he is the president, has also understood it. Then it turns out also - as everyone knows - that the former deputy of Brothers of Italy Crosetto is Qatar's best friend in Italy. So you could avoid all this sloppyness, in my opinion a little redundant and useless. We could define cooperation as a real immaterial asset which - as we have seen during the sad phase of the emergency from Covid-19 - then translates into concrete and tangible support. Thanks to the good relations that Italy has with the vast majority of countries in the world, it has been possible to receive masks, respiratory, pulmonary fans, assistance of doctors, health personnel, experts in sanitization procedures that have helped our country concretely to get out of the critical phase of the epidemic. In particular, with regard to Qatar, thanks to the work of our Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio, Doha sent two field hospitals to accommodate 500 patients: I would say that it certainly went better than the expo slum, which hosted only 21 patients. Often it is the agreements of cultural and scientific cooperation that give lustre to our country, its traditions and innovation inherent in the work of Italians. From this point of view, our country has much to convey in terms of know-how to other countries. I should therefore like to conclude, Mr President, by wishing that the Agreement under consideration may give rise to ever stronger links between our people and that of Qatar, and that our greatest contribution is to promote peace and harmony between peoples, of which culture and mutual knowledge are the most promising seeds for the future. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u57	Before giving the floor to Senator Casini, I recall that the Commissions 5a and 7a were authorized to convene during the proceedings of the Assembly. Please, Senator Casini. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am a little surprised - I am addressing Senator Salvini - because I read that the ratification and implementation of the Cooperation Agreement under discussion was presented to the House, among others, by Mr Bussetti. [[Applause]] , which does not seem to me to be a Minister of the Democratic Party or of the 5 Star Movement: he is a Minister of the League. Clearly, therefore, this is an agreement on which the Government which is before the current Commission has worked in this parliamentary term. [[Applause.]] Frankly, therefore, I do not see to whom the indignation should be directed. It's a deal like so many others. If each agreement provides for the approval of political, cultural and religious systems, we will not make agreements with anyone. It is therefore an agreement which must be approved by the Senate, as other members of the opposition have also said. I should like to add two points. With regard to the sentences of the leader, of the Iranian spiritual leader, he is absolutely right. What Salvini said here today represents what the Senate thinks: for us the right to the existence of Israel is a question on which there can be no ideas other than to reject Khamenei's words to the sender. [[Applause]] It is therefore useless for us to put in this Chamber arguments on which we all agree or, if anyone does not agree, Senator Salvini, he does not have the courage to say so in this House. I challenge anyone today who thinks that this is a similar thing to say to the Senate: I believe that no one would dare to stand up in this House, because the right to existence of Israel is the lowest common denominator of all the political forces in this House. [[Applause]] The second point concerns the World Health Organisation. Senator Salvini, just follow me on this, if you're so kind. See, I think Trump's got a point. We all know that the Secretary of the World Health Organization, who is an Ethiopian, was brought to that place for great help from the Chinese. If I have to give my opinion, given the various positions that the World Health Organization has taken over these months, I say that you do not have any wrongs, as Trump does not, because there has been a lack of autonomy over a stakeholder, who was and is China, in the World Health Organization. The point on which we must reflect and discuss today in this House is not so much about mistakes, which are obvious, nor about the need to make an independent investigation, which has already been deliberated by the World Health Organization itself; the point is to understand - and it is true - whether Trump's response to removing aid from the World Health Organization is the way forward, because it is the one with which multilateralism is completely defeated, whereas today we know that one of the world's issues, right after Covid-19, is to strengthen it, not to weaken it. All criticism is therefore legitimate and perhaps partly fair, but the final answer is to strengthen multilateralism, not to weaken it by removing the funds. If there is one thing that Italy has always agreed on, it is the premise of our foreign policy, based on three points: Europe, the Atlantic choice and multilateralism. Today the Atlantic choice is challenged by the need to redefine a NATO identity, which is unclear, because the challenges have changed. Europe sees that it is trying to respond to this epidemic, and we hope that it will do so convincingly for everyone. Multilateralism is undermined, so it is our approach and our interest, because we are not a dictatorial and hegemonic power, but we need the community of free states to find its point of union in a multilateral concert. This is a fundamental theme for me, with reference to which I see that the trend of Italian foreign policy has been confirmed by the current Minister: we certainly want to be friends of China and Russia, but we cannot confuse our traditional alliances with the right friendships we have with other countries. I think that this Treaty, if it provides an opportunity to talk about foreign policy as well, given that Parliament is quite absent from this point of view, is not a wasted opportunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u59	You have the floor, but I recommend to all my colleagues - as I have already reminded Senator Balboni before and I remind Senator Casini now - to turn in a single direction when we speak, without looking to the left and the right, or overtones, otherwise we will be forced to ask everyone to intervene by wearing the mask, because from here, having a view of the House, we understand that there is a certain type of risk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u60	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the greatest and greatest security we have in voting on this measure, on which I declare the abstaining vote of the Forza Italia Group, is that the agreement has been concluded by a minister on whom no one can have any objection in terms of defending fundamental values and principles. I am referring to Giulio Terzi di Sant'Agata, who did not sign the agreement with the scimitar on his neck, but did so freely, defending fundamental principles. In reading the agreement itself, language teaching exists. The agreement promotes academic cooperation, exchanges of visits between teachers, readers and researchers, the development of scientific research, the production of studies and documents between Italy and Qatar, also provides for the award of scholarships to students and graduates. Of course, I don't find children in this arrangement. I would like to add that in 2022 the World Cup will be celebrated in Qatar. What are we gonna do? We're not gonna go? I say this because here we are nationalists, we wave the tricolor flag, then when we talk about important issues like sport we don't make deals? I would like to point out, in the absence of any misunderstanding, that Forza Italia is stellarly far from accepting obscurantist principles; we are for the defence of freedom and democracy, for the respect of the human person; if we are here, those who support different principles are at the border of the cosmos and vice versa. We have the task of defending these principles and we do so to the very end, but the arguments I have heard in this House cannot represent the deforming mirror of trade agreements or be the subject of grotesque interpretations, Mr President, which would leave Italy absolutely isolated at international and, above all, economic level. We cannot forget that we have also entered into agreements with rogue countries, but these agreements have looked at the search for privileged channels so that the principles of democracy and freedom could find a channel. The reason why we make this abstention vote, then, is also that this is the mission of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) of which we are an active part; we are a part and we must respect it, but one thing is the agreements and one thing is the principles that other States support. I believe and hope that I have been sufficiently clear on this point, so I confirm our strong abstention vote on the measure under discussion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u62	I take note of that and give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u63	FANTETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am voting against this measure and I would like to point out that it is ratification and therefore the Treaty only comes into force after ratification, not after signature, so what has happened before does not count. I would also point out that it has been established at European level that there is respect for the rule of law among the binding criteria of international cooperation, which will be implemented with the multiannual financial framework that is decided at this time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fantetti, I gave you just a minute because you're not in a position where you can talk and you're without a mask. FANTETTI (FIBP-UDC). For lack of respect for the rule of law, I shall vote against the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u64	I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved. As a counter-test request has been made, I order the doors to be closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u65	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1507, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u66	Mr President, the draft law before us, already approved by the House of Deputies, concerns the ratification of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement signed in May 2016, between Italy and Singapore. This agreement consists of 10 articles and has the dual objective of further developing the friendship relations between Italy and Singapore and of further deepening and structuring the collaboration in the scientific and technological field, already foreseen by a previous bilateral agreement dating back to 1990, also providing for the possibility of financing joint projects and activities. The draft law ratifying the agreement consists of five articles. With regard to the economic burdens arising from the implementation of the measure, I would stress that Article 3 assesses them in 440,000 for each of the years 2019 to 2020 and in 449,000 euros from 2021. It is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u67	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u70	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u73	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am voting in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u76	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, the cooperation agreement with Singapore is particularly important because this city State is one of the most important economic network nodes in the world. It should be remembered that Singapore is home to hundreds of companies in the most advanced sectors, the industries are mainly developed in the mechanical, chemical, petrochemical, electronic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors. Singapore is also an important tourist destination and the main Asian convention center. This last aspect is promising regarding the topic of this agreement and allows a significant exchange of know-how at the technological level especially on our top sectors, such as research and shipbuilding, which would find immediate applications, given the role that Singapore also plays as a node of the marine transports. It is not to be underestimated also the country's internal market, which has a total of 5.6 million inhabitants and a very high percentage of wealthy people who can add value to our startups as final consumers. Therefore, we consider this important agreement as a pioneer for a vigorous penetration into the Asian market in the near future in terms of strengthening the export of our companies, on which the Undersecretary Di Stefano and our Foreign Minister Di Maio are working tirelessly as a key to relaunching our post-Covid economy. I therefore strongly support our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u79	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for the sake of the economy of time, I would ask you to attach to the Minutes of today's sitting the written text of my explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u80	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u81	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1079. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u82	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the agreement on cooperation in the field of defence signed between Italy and Mongolia in May 2016. This is an agreement that follows similar measures already examined by the Chambers in recent legislation, responding to the need to establish the legal framework within which to develop bilateral cooperation between the two countries. This draft law of ratification consists of 5 articles and with reference to economic charges it quantifys them in 5.358 euros to alternate years from 2020, attributable only to mission and travel expenses. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u83	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u86	Garavini (IV-PSI). I confirm the vote in favour of this draft ratification law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u89	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would also like to reiterate my vote in favour of this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u92	AIROLA (M5S). I declare the vote in favour of the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u95	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for the sake of the economy of time, I would ask you to attach to the Minutes of today's sitting the written text of my explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u96	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u97	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1239. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u98	Mr President, the 1997 Additional Protocol, which is made up of nine articles, has a particular feature because it provides, under certain conditions, for the transfer of sentenced persons regardless of their consent. Article 2 specifically states that, where a national of a State-party, in respect of which a final sentence has been given in another State-party, tries to escape the execution of the sentence by taking refuge in the territory of which he is a national, the State of conviction may request that the State of nationality execute the sentence, even after the arrest of the person sentenced. In view of the difficulties reported by many Contracting Parties in effectively implementing the said Additional Protocol, the Committee of Experts on the functioning of the European Conventions on cooperation in the criminal field has since 2015 initiated work to draft an amended draft of this legislation, which led to the signing, in November 2017, of a further Amending Protocol to the same Additional Protocol. The resulting text aims at the construction of a legal framework for the transfer of sentenced persons within which States may cooperate, on a voluntary basis, in particular in situations where a sentenced person is not within the territory of the State of conviction or is the subject of an expulsion order at the end of the period of imprisonment. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 of the draft law evaluates them in total in 9,189 euros per year from 2020. It is proposed that the draft law in question be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u99	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u102	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I confirm my Group's support for the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u105	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). I too, Mr President, am voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u108	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, I rise to stress the importance of this bill, which is designed to ratify and implement the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, initialled in Strasbourg on 18 December 1997, and the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, made in Strasbourg on 22 November 2017. These two measures are nothing more than the exegesis of a single project or of a vision of the Member States of the Council of Europe concerning the transfer of sentenced persons from the State which issued the sentence to the other where it is intended to end the prison sentence. It should be pointed out that the protocol we are defining does not impose any obligation on the State issuing the sentence or even on the State applying the restrictive measure. It is simply the sharing of a regulatory framework in which acceding countries can voluntarily cooperate. With respect to the past protocols, the latter provides that, without all guarantees, the transfer of the prisoner may take place without the will of the prisoner. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u111	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would ask you to attach the written text of my explanation of vote on this draft law to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u112	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u113	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1084. The rapporteur, Senator Bishops, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u114	Mr President, the agreement before us is an agreement which follows similar measures already approved by the Senate, re-affirming the need to regulate bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries, with the aim of consolidating their respective defensive capacities and improving mutual understanding on security issues. The bill consists of 5 articles. With regard to economic burdens, the bill calculates them in 5.648 euros - again, Mr President, we are talking a lot about bureaucracy, but to pass a law for an expenditure of 5.648 euros, it leads me to ask myself a question - starting from 2020, due only to the expenses of missions and travel. Article 4 of the draft law also lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing any charges. I would like to make one final point, Mr President: our colleagues really have an obsession with field hospitals in Milan, because, in the debate on the draft law ratifying the Agreement with Qatar, they have returned to the field hospital in Milan, although we were talking about an international issue: in my opinion it is something that really leads us to ask ourselves questions about priorities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u115	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u118	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u121	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u124	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u127	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for the sake of the economy of time, I would ask you to attach to the Minutes of today's sitting the written text of my explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u128	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I put the bill to the vote as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u129	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1085. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u130	Mr President, we are called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Agreement signed between Italy and the Republic of Korea in October 2018. Like the previous one, it is an agreement similar to similar measures already examined in the Assembly of the Senate and, again in this case, it responds to the need to establish a well-defined legal framework, within which to increase bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries, which in this case has been started since 1998, with the entry into force of a memorandum of understanding in this matter, with the aim of consolidating their respective defensive capacities and to improve mutual understanding on the issue of security. In this case, the economic charges have been quantified at EUR 2,072, every other year, starting from 2020 and are attributable solely to mission and travel expenses. Article 4 of the draft law lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that any additional costs arising from the implementation of the bilateral agreement will have to be met with a specific legislative provision. This is also a character that we find periodically in our ratifications. In conclusion, I propose to the House that the draft law under consideration be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u131	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u134	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I confirm my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u137	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I, too, Mr President, confirm my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u140	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u143	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for the sake of the economy of time, I would ask you to attach to the Minutes of today's sitting the written text of my explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u144	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u145	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1608, already approved by the House of Deputies. The applicant rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u146	Mr President, the draft law before us, already adopted in the House of Deputies, proposes to ratify the agreement on cooperation in the field of defence between our Government and the Government of Turkmenistan. It is a classic standard agreement, like others already signed with other countries, that promotes forms of collaboration between our Armed Forces and mutual formation in the exchange of best practices. The bill consists of five articles, with very limited charges, just over 4,000 euros. There are no profiles of incompatibility with national and European legislation and international obligations, so it is proposed that the bill be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u147	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u150	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I confirm my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u153	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u156	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I confirm my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u159	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for the sake of the economy of time, I would ask you to attach to the Minutes of today's sitting the written text of my explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u160	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u161	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1609, already approved by the House of Deputies. The applicant rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u162	Mr President, I would like to thank you repeatedly. The draft law under consideration has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies and concerns the ratification of an agreement signed in August 2018 between the Italian Ministry of Defence and the Secretariats of National Defence and the Mexican Navy in the field of cooperation in the field of defence acquisitions. The Agreement consists of eleven articles and aims, again in this case, to strengthen security cooperation with the Mexican United States in the framework of a common intention to contribute to international peace and stability. The agreement, in this case, follows a joint declaration of strategic partnership between the two countries, which was signed in 2012 and which established the common intention to launch a bilateral dialogue in the field of security. With regard to economic charges, in the draft law these were valued at 7.694 euros every other year, starting from 2019. Again, Article 4 of the draft law lays down the clause of financial invariance. It is therefore proposed that this bill be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u163	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u166	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I declare the Italian Group Viva-PSI's vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u169	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u172	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u175	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for the sake of the economy of time, I would ask you to attach to the Minutes of today's sitting the written text of my explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u176	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved. Colleagues, I propose to suspend work until 3 p.m. As there are no comments, this remains the case. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.24 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u177	He asked President Pittoni to speak to report on the work of the 7th Permanent Commission on draft law No 1774. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u178	Mr President, the Commission is examining the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 22 of 2020, to which some 400 amendments were originally tabled, to which numerous rewordings submitted by various political groups of majority and opposition have been added. In some cases these are rewordings suggested by the rapporteur and on which there is also a favourable opinion of the Government. At today's sitting, the Commission continued its examination. We still have about 60 amendments and 65 agendas to vote on. We hope, however, to conclude the work around 16.30. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u179	Colleagues, in relation to what has just been reported by President Pittoni, I suspend the work of the Assembly until 4.40 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3.07 p.m. and resumed at 4.49 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u180	I inform the Assembly that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 23 of 8 April 2020 on urgent measures relating to access to credit and tax obligations for enterprises, special powers in strategic sectors, as well as interventions in the field of health and work and extension of administrative and procedural deadlines.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u181	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1774. The rapporteur, Senator Angrisani, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I am obliged to thank one by one all the members of the 7th Commission and the technicians themselves of the structure who have contributed, between a thousand difficulties and peripezies, to the definition of a shared text, capable of collecting the consensus and satisfaction of all the political forces involved in its drafting. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you all in advance of the climate of total emergency in which we have operated. Reaching this result, although step by step, inch by inch, was not at all obvious; we often tend to underestimate it, but we must realize that this Government and all of us had to face a huge emergency situation, not only health, which resulted in a social unexpected of epochal dimensions. Never before had we witnessed such a phenomenon, which has completely changed our civil and social lives. The devastating impact of Covid has changed our lives and those of our children. Already this measure is born with the needs to safeguard the right to study of our children and to provide them, in a condition never before occurred, with possible and effective access to culture and adequate education. Beyond the polemics that may exist in political dynamics, I ask you intellectual honesty not to stress or diminish the will that we have shown to respect this need for protection. It is not a given accessory or mere formality to observe, introductoryly, how the text of this decree-law was dictated by reasons of urgency and together by the uncertainty from which any possible projection on the evolution and direct and indirect effects of the pandemic remained inevitably characterized. This decree-law, therefore, from a regulatory point of view, has responded to the need to regulate, with an appropriate and effective instrument, the whole of the operations related to the closure of the school year 2019-2020 and the start of the school year 2020-21, taking into account the need to have to reason on ductile categories and however out of excessive rigidity, being able to assess the impact of what is assumed and established only a posteriori. To sum up, as we have seen, if it is likely that a real and accomplished exit from the state of emergency will be possible only when pharmacological care and the vaccine become available to fight the virus, this suggests that until then they will hardly be able to resume and take place, at least in the traditional way we know, all those social activities that presuppose and require close contact, beginning with the school, university and didactic universe, but also unfortunately, as we know, from the whole of cultural activities, such as shows, theatres, projections, etc. Therefore, the idea of being able to return to class before May 18, was not to mortify, valorizing as much as possible the tests and guaranteeing their dignity, the about 460,000 students who have to take the state exam, together with the 500,000 students of thirteen to fourteen years who also have to face the exams of the first cycle. However, beyond the compulsory discourse to innovative forms of teaching such as distance learning, problems of considerable importance at the same time presented the start of the next school year, in the light of some essential nodes of not easy solution, which can be quickly listed below: the ability, by the school institution, to ensure possible safety devices and adequate spaces for effective distance between students; the need and the will to promote and encourage the entire chain of distance learning in its different declinations. Economic poverty will in fact have repercussions on educational poverty, especially for the most fragile and exposed with a combined arrangement that will combine, for some groups of students, the shortage of resources with the lack of education and, therefore, with the lack of access to adequate training. The continuation of the epidemiological emergency and the need to conform to measures of social distance have procrastinated the new methods adopted of distance teaching, but we must do everything possible, without prejudice to the measures that have been and will be necessary to adopt in the shared and growing concern for the possible liquidation of the school in its traditional configuration, to safeguard the teaching in presence as an irreplaceable experience and the so-called class group, understood as a system of relations, together with the primary function of the school as sociality, in a horizontal sense, between students and, vertical, with teachers. Therefore, ensuring an orderly start to the next school year means not surrogating with emerging measures, but with structural, calibrated and intelligent interventions, the lack of teachers, guaranteeing principles of fairness, transparency and meritocracy, for recruitment and entry into role, teaching continuity and in particular support, given the scenario that emerges from the health emergency that penalizes to a greater extent, sometimes not sanitized, the most serious disabilities, up to the various problems that affix to specific learning disorders and special educational needs. Specifically, Article 1 sets out the general framework for the special discipline for the school year 2019-2020 for the final evaluation of students, for all school orders and grades, as well as for the admission of first and second grade secondary school students to the next class for the possible integration and recovery of the learning of the same students and for the carrying out of the final state examinations of the first and second cycle. Article 2 (1) and (2) obliges the Minister of Education to take measures for the start of the school year 2020-21, also by way of derogation from the current rules on the subject, the date of the beginning of the lessons, the procedures concerning the entry into office, the use and provisional assignments and the additions, to be completed by 15 September 2020, to the use only for the school year 2020-21 of the existing rankings. It is the heart of the decree and the original text... PRESIDENT. Excuse me a moment. Senator Garnet, is there any question you'd like to put to us? If not, please take your seats. You can continue, please, rapporteur. Angrisani, rapporteur. The original text arrived at the Commission, thanks to the ability to compare government forces, which, while differing on certain aspects, have managed to find a broad shared synthesis, and thanks to the fruitful contribution of oppositions, significant improvements and changes have been made. In particular, we should remember amendment 4.0.100 setting up regional procedures for access to support posts. Then there are the vacancies available at the start of the next school year, which will be covered by fixed-term assignments pending the completion of the extraordinary competition procedures that the same text establishes. Amendment 2,300 lays down rules and criteria relating to the extraordinary competition procedure aimed at placing the teaching staff in the role of the school year 2021-2022. However, those covered by the share of the posts allocated to the procedures for the school year 2020-2021 are recognised as legal retrodating of the employment relationship, set at 1 September 2020. Amendment 7.01 replacing Article 7 sets out measures to ensure continuity in the management of universities and AFAM. In addition, Amendment 7,0.26, which is an urgent measure for the redevelopment of school buildings. It should be noted that in order to contain any spread of the infection, the teaching staff ensures the teaching activities in the distance mode and that the work and related duties of the school managers, as well as of the school staff, can be carried out in the agile way of working. It is also established that only for the school year 2019-20, in relation to the recurrence of the period of training and testing of teaching and educational staff, following negative evaluation, the verification activities by technical managers, if not carried out by 15 May, are replaced by an advisory opinion given by the technical manager. Article 3 reduces the time limit for the expression of opinions by the Higher Education Council from 45 days to 15 days. Article 4 contains an authentic interpretation of Article 87 (5) of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, stating that the suspension of competition procedures related to the health emergency is only related to the conduct of the relevant tests. Article 5 extends the application, as compatible, of the provisions referred to in Article 87 (5) of Decree-Law No 18, also to the competition procedures provided for by the laws of the regulated professions subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and to the examinations of qualification for access to the same professions. Article 6 provides that the Ministry of University and Research, with one or more decrees, may define, even by way of derogation from the current regulatory provisions, the organisation and modalities of the first and second sessions of 2020 of the State examinations of qualification to the exercise of the professions indicated therein, as well as the additional tests for the approval to the exercise of the statutory audit. Article 7 provides for the suspension, in universities and institutions of high training, until the continuing state of emergency and by way of derogation from the provisions of the statutes of universities and AFAM institutions, of electoral procedures for the renewal of the collegial and monocratic bodies in progress on the date of entry into force of the decree-law. Article 8 provides for safeguard clauses and financial invariance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u183	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Gallone to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u184	Mr President, I am making a fundamental premise by putting an issue on all of them. This decree-law has a precise title: Emergency measures on the regular conclusion and orderly start of the school year and on the conduct of state examinations This measure, therefore, should have contained few essential indications, guidelines to allow the Italian school to cross and overcome the moment of emergency that has overwhelmed Italy, guaranteeing - according to the norms of the Constitution - the right to study for all, the modalities of learning, the regularity of the course of the school year and the relative examinations of passage from one cycle of study to the other or final. This decree-law should have guaranteed the equal and equal support of state public schools and equal public schools, allowing the school system in its entirety to overcome such a difficult moment, safeguarding an integrated and subsidiary system that today more than ever must work together, representing an essential resource to realize the right-duty to learn, essential for the formation of the person and the citizen, not to mention the freedom of educational choice of families, the foundation of every democratic state. Regardless of any ideological consideration, this decree-law should at least have safeguarded the protection of the balance of the budget, in the light of the hole that will be created when the hundreds of thousands of students of peers had to be poured into the state school - which will collapse - you want because they will close so many peers you want because families will have to, play force, change for economic needs finally real discrimination between rich and poor. If we add to this the enormous logistical-organizational effort to ensure the right to study and at the same time respect for the norms of social distance, those who will lose us, of course, will be the quality. This decree-law should also have ensured the stabilization of teachers and teachers, once and for all overcoming every open question, even that of school leaders - dusty disputes - and safeguarding the professional dignity of a category, that of teachers, which in the most advanced countries represents the tip of the social pyramid, giving certainty, moreover, of the teaching continuity at a time already sufficiently destabilising for pupils and students, who at least should have found the teachers of the year before the start - hopefully! - from the school year following September. Yet, despite the support of the entire minority, the Government has also failed to accept the amendments of Senator Verducci of the PD, who called for stabilisation. [[Applause]] This decree-law should have assisted the local authority in this process, from the municipalities to the State-Regions relationship (also the reason for the preliminary question). It has not yet been clarified, for example, whether the decree of the Minister of Education, adopted in agreement with the State-Regions Conference, will replace for next year the individual regional deliberations on the school timetable with regard to the start date of the lessons. This decree-law should have created the conditions to be able to reopen the schools in conjunction with the reopening of the country, which is now slowly taking place; conditions among which it was necessary also to provide for the strengthening of administrative offices and territorial school offices. Today, instead, the school remains the last outpost still detached, still isolated: reopen the productive activities, start to circulate, reopen the hairdressers, shops, restaurants; we talk about tourism, where we will go on vacation, but it does not reopen the school, and this is compromising the functioning of entire systems, starting from the family system, because the school also depends on the possibility of working for families. [[Applause.]] Or - this would be our ambition, which we hoped shared - the government could seize the opportunity of a moment, which will remain in history for its violent drama, and transform it into the opportunity to finally give the school a new set-up, a renewal and consolidation that would not have been possible in normal times. A bit like when you build a new house, because the opportunity to rethink the future of the school was now, but you wasted it. For example, twenty years after the law on school equality, you could have started a great alliance between state school and peer school, to rebuild together and update the education system, stimulating the one and the other to give the best of themselves, in a race to do better, in which the winners would have been the students, because there can be no revival, if one of the important sections of education is killed. Or you could have provided computer teaching tools to all schools in Italy in a homogeneous way, introduced coding, a teacher training system or the figure of the psychologist. Nothing, another opportunity lost by the Government in which the traction grills conditions every choice: it has done it before and it does now, reaching to annihilate even positions traditionally indispensable of the rest of the majority (such as the PD or Italy Viva), of which is part even a former Minister of Education, the Senator Fadeli, who was able to go beyond the ideological rigidities, opening her, after the minister Berlinguer who sanctioned the school parity twenty years ago, the table to study the introduction of the standard cost per student, that could change and finally implement that integrated public school system today more than ever necessary to the possibility of choosing families. In the same way, another Minister of Education of the PD, Minister Giannini, was strongly contested, again by the Movimento 5 Stars, when he dared to remember that supporting the peer school means supporting the public school, in line with the constitutional dictation, not to mention the former Undersecretary Toccafondi, who, now of course, is completely withdrawn and cancelled, made the sense of his government mandate. Going back to today, we found ourselves, as in the best grill tradition of the government, a government and a majority that give fish instead of teaching to fish. School is the country in the country. You could say: "Tell me what your model of school is and I'll tell you that Country you are and you want to close the school in a fence, as you would like to close Italy in a fence. We say no, because today the school, the pillar of growth, remains still the most affected sector and the last outpost. From the procedural point of view, always entering into the substance of the question before us, we are no longer surprised by the delay with which the Government takes measures that should be urgent by their nature, confirming once again an unacceptable practice for the good of the country already in normal times and intolerable for the moment that we are living. In fact, if from the formal point of view the times for the conversion of the decree-law are now regular, from the substantive point of view it is surprising that a decree-law deemed of absolute urgency and priority, issued on April 8, that is more than a month and a half ago - today we are at May 27 and the schools are about to close, in the sense that although not being open, we should be close to the time of the last day of school - and I still consider, at first reading, a single branch of Parliament, making this Government's established practice a long and useless iter in one of the two Chambers, with built-in confidence, and the absolute compression of the times of the discussion in the other branch. The proposals put forward by the Forza Italia Group in the Commission for Public Education, cultural goods, went in the direction of constructively modifying some obvious shortcomings contained in the decree-law. However, the constructive suggestions have not been accepted - I am beginning to conclude - indicating by the Government an attitude of bored sufficiency, little consideration, unwillingness to compare in substance, even on psychological support actions aimed at students, teachers and families to overcome the difficulties that have occurred and even on a whole series of proposals for students with disabilities. We would have wanted to help the interventions so that they would not just put on a piece, but could build a new vision of the country, starting from the school itself. Nothing will be accepted, everything will be reduced, as we have said, to yet another vote of confidence: it is, however, a trust that is all yours and all within this House, because outside, in my opinion, people are already beginning to protest. But then the responsibility will also be entirely yours and the Government, closed in the cocoon of a state secularism and bigoted to the limits of orthodoxy. Problem is, you're not just going to crash, but with you, he's going to crash the whole country. As long as we breathe, we will try to prevent it, because Italy is our country, the country we love and that we will defend at any cost. That is why we have referred this question to a measure which, as it was built (maybe it would be better to say murmured), should not see the light. Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, we therefore ask that the Senate Act 1774 should not be examined. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u185	He asked Senator Saponara to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u186	Mr President, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, the Lega-Salvini Premier Group has considered, for a number of reasons that I will explain, to present a preliminary question concerning Decree-Law No 22 of 8 April 2020, which should be under discussion in the Assembly today for its conversion into law and which includes in its title urgent measures on the regular conclusion and the orderly start of the school year and on the conduct of state examinations. The decree-law, therefore, had to define the general framework of the special discipline relating to the school year 2019-2020 as regards the final evaluation of students of all school orders and grades, as well as for the admission of students of the first and second grade secondary school to the next class and, again, for the possible integration and recovery of the apprenticeships by the same students and for the carrying out of the final state exams of the first and second cycle of education, i.e. the examinations of the third and of maturity. All this through the adoption of specific measures by order of the Minister of Education. Precisely because of the objective pursued by the decree-law, we of the Lega Group, among the various critical issues identified in it, consider of extreme gravity, instead, the uncertainty in which the Government has left the families, indicating in the text the possible resumption of the lessons in presence before the date of 18 May, absolutely unthinkable solution already from the date of issue of the decree-law. There is, in fact, no indication to date...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u187	Excuse me, Senator, I'll interrupt you for a moment. They tell me they're taking pictures in the Chamber. You know that is not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u188	Please, Senator, continue. SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). I said that the provision provides, in an option, for the return to school by the date of 18 May, an absolutely unthinkable solution already from the date of issue of the decree-law because to date there is no indication applicable in this regard. This is an indication of the state of absolute improvisation that has characterized the work of the Government as a whole since the beginning of the emergency. Let us also consider the fact that the measure requires orders from the Minister of Education to adopt measures for the start of the school year 2020-2021, also in derogation from the current rules. On this point, it should be recalled that the legislation in force provides for the school year to start on 1 September and end on 31 August. The same decree-law states that it is for the Minister of Education to fix, by orders, the end of the lessons, the deadlines for periodic evaluations and the dates of the holidays. On the other hand, however, according to Legislative Decree No 112 of 1998, the Regions are asked to define the school timetable. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I'm sorry, I have a buzz in my ears. I can't talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u189	No, it is the House that must apologise. I never fail to call everyone at least to the duty of respect for those who are speaking. The buzz is actually annoying. I would ask colleagues to lower their voices before I call them back individually. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u190	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). All this creates further regulatory uncertainty, as potential conflicts of attribution may arise between the State and the Regions if the decree of the Minister of Education, adopted in agreement with the State-Regions Conference, can replace for the school year 2020-2021 the individual regional deliberations on the school timetable. Let's move on. Article 3 of the measure then introduces, from the day following the date of entry into force of the decree-law and for the duration of the state of emergency, the reduction from forty-five days to seven days of the ordinary time limit for the expression of opinions by the Higher Council of Education. This reduced period shall also apply to opinions which have not yet been delivered on measures already communicated. All this, translated, means that in this way the measure laid down in Article 3 greatly compresses the consultative work of the Higher Council of Education and effectively cancels its operation. It should be added that it seems inconceivable as a decree-law of absolute urgency, issued on 8 April, both after all this time still before the Senate was examined at first reading and that, two days after the beginning of the examination of the measure in the Assembly, the Commission of merit (i.e. the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage) had not yet voted on a single amendment and the Budget Commission had not yet completed the financial scrutiny of the amendments. To date, despite the extended time for discussion in the Commission, fundamental issues remain open and still unresolved, such as the definition of the plan for the stabilisation of precarious persons with a view to reopening in September (in other words, in a situation of social distance); the date of the State examination for private individuals (so as not to deprive them of the possibility of carrying out the university access tests already planned for September); the modalities for starting the school year 2020-2021. This modus operandi will therefore mean a reduction in the time taken to discuss the measure at second reading in the House of Deputies. Moreover, this modus operandi has become normal practice for this Government, all to the detriment of the just articulation of the democratic dialectic. I regret - and I conclude - that the extension of the examination times in the Commission, moreover, has not been in favour of cooperation between the political forces in order to find the best solutions for the school sector, especially in a situation such as the current one, of extreme difficulty for both students, families, teachers and all school staff. On the contrary, all the proposals put forward by the League have been hindered in any way and in any way prevented, trying to block them from the Budget Commission, often on the basis of a preconceived presumption of honesty. For all these reasons, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group considers that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, consideration should not be given to the Senate Act 1774. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u191	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u194	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the Fratelli d'Italia Group will vote in favour of the question referred by our opposition colleagues not only for a matter of merit and for the contents that have been presented, but also because there is a problem that goes beyond the school decree that we will discuss - I fear - a few minutes from here. The issue concerns the use of the decree-law, which is no longer presented to Parliament as a one-off exception, for extraordinary reasons of necessity and urgency as the Constitution reminds us, but now it is the practice, the rule, and the use of the decree-law continues to grow according to a sick and unjustifiable logic, so much so that by now it has almost stopped making news. The scandal that arose in the last legislature over the abuse of the decree-laws is no longer there, but the fact that the unjustified use of the decree-laws no longer makes news in my opinion does not mean that it has stopped being unacceptable. For those who want to think a little bit, especially for those who want to do it as a senator, as a parliamentarians, I think there is more than one cause for concern about the fact that our constitutional system, right or wrong whether it is, like it or not, is based on so-called perfect bicameralism. Well, there is no trace of this bicameralism, because we live in a sort of "monocameralism and a half" in the sense that the debate on decree-laws - because by now only decree-laws are spoken, since the legislative initiatives of the parliamentary and popular groups remain in the drawers of the Commissions for years and never see the light - takes place in a branch of Parliament and then in the second, ninety times out of a hundred, trust is placed. As if that were not enough, now the habit of putting the question of trust - as I think it will be a few hours from here, we will see it - has arisen at the first reading in the first branch of Parliament. There are therefore two Chambers - Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies - which not only have to discuss decree-laws, with the limited times that these provide for conversion, but also have limited times and have only casually the possibility to deepen their examination in the Commission, because this is delegated to the good heart and chance of the Government, which from time to time decides whether to start a decree-law from the Chamber or the Senate. For this reason those who have the misfortune of not being in the Chamber assigned to the decree-law at first reading, of that decree just cannot say anything and its function as parliamentarians is already limited more than it normally is. This of the school, then, is a clear case of this practice: the decree-law, assigned to the Senate and long discussed in the Commission, will then be submitted to the trust, with many greetings to the possibility of a subsequent intervention also to the House. There is therefore a system of tripartition of powers: the executive one is now eating the legislative one, because the government decides what can be talked about and what not, while the third power, the judicial one, is mainly engaged, as we read in the interceptions, to decide how to transform - indeed, how to confirm - the Supreme Council of the judiciary from organ of self-government to organ of self-absolution from all the evils that the magistrates carry out daily and of which I hope someone will have to take charge sooner or later. There is no Minister of Justice, there are other representatives of the Government, we hope that among the many necessary and urgent decree-laws the Government will also find time to issue a necessary and urgent decree-law to reform the Supreme Council of the judiciary and to put hand to the scandal of the Italian judiciary. We would also like to discuss this in the morning. Colleagues, President, members of the Government, on this decree school we did our part, we tried to assert our reasons (as always with poor results). The fact that the question of trust arises - I would like it to be clear to those who by chance listen to us from home, by any means of communication - does not stem from the fact that oppositions have obstructed the Commission, or that the bad and unintelligent oppositions have opposed in all possible ways to the conversion of the decree, but from the fact that the majority stopped fighting in the Commission a few minutes ago, the fact that it is found, reading Facebook, Twitter and press releases, that there were messages of threat between members of the majority at night and during the day, in which the resignation of the Minister threatened, threatened the holding of the majority, also threatened the friction to the praise Count, who seemed to have found for a moment the solution to the problems mainly of the precarious ones. We read quite disconcerted the messages that members of the PD House sent to members of the Senate of the PD or other parties, saying that they did not do a certain thing, that they voted on a certain text, that they did not allow themselves not to vote on an amendment. I mean, you did it and you guys sang it to each other. So the urgent decree-law on the school will arrive at the House just in time to be approved at the last minute; so even in this case there will be very little to do and to examine. (17.28) (Following Cyrians). Very briefly - because then I fear that we will say it shortly, when we examine the provision - we have tried to do our part. We record the fact that the decree-law expires on June 7 and that the time left is really very limited. All those who had promised seas, mountains and miracles to the precarious will have to come up with something to explain why they did not guarantee either the seas, the mountains or the miracles, but, much more prosaically, something other than the electoral promises. Once again, we reiterate the fact that the experience gained in years of precarious teaching is perhaps worth more than a competition and we also reaffirm our closeness to the peer schools, which we hope in the so-called Italy relaunch decree can find a response to their requests for funding, because they are a fundamental pivot of our educational system. We have written many other things in our amendments, but they have not been accepted. We have done our battle with the limited time allocated to us, because once again the confusion and urgency with which such serious problems are dealt with does not stem from the fact that we have had an irresponsible attitude, but from the fact that we have tried to put a foot in your scams and divisions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u197	ALESSANDRINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, to use a famous sentence by Gino Bartali, to comment on the content of this decree-law, but above all on the pantomime that accompanied the so-called negotiation on the stabilization of precarious people, one could well say: everything wrong, everything to be done again. The solution that has been served as a praise Count is the most unsuccessful political mediation that one could imagine. We do not understand how it is possible to sit around a table starting from the request to hire for titles and services, avoiding a written test unnecessarily risky to the health of the candidates and the need to have teachers in role already from September, and to get up after replacing the written test with another test, otherwise written, and having postponed everything to the end of the emergency. A merciless game, which once again humiliates the precarious and contrasts with the right to the continuity of teaching students; other than stabilizations. Next school year we will have 30,000 more insecure as a result of retirements, which will bring the total number of alternates to 200,000. The result of the majority agreement of the night between Sunday and Monday is the exact opposite of what had to be done to guarantee all teachers the ownership of a chair next September and to deal effectively with the pandemic crisis, with the need to double classes. It is clear that there have never been the technical time to carry out a contest in the middle of summer and with all the limitations dictated by the emergency health. But the Pilates solution adopted at nighttime is worse than evil: thousands of teachers remain precarious and will go to work in September aware that that could be the last year of work. Who will in fact prevent the neo-winners of the umpteenth written test that will have to assess the merit of unraveling those who will not overcome it or will put themselves in a less useful position in the new, yet another competitive ranking? And to say that the way to get out of this paradoxical and unjust situation was already ready, contained in our proposal of taking from rankings (a procedure already used for finishing rankings). But marrying this solution would have meant giving us, the League, the merit of an undigestible solution for the Government, to avoid at the cost of sacrificing the rights of thousands of precarious people. [[Applause]] That is why the League will vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in order to underline what could have been done to improve this text all this time but which it has consciously and blamefully chosen not to do. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u200	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to refer to the speech already made by Senator Gallone in explaining our question. I repeat, of course, that we will vote in favour of this reference because we are concerned about the progress of the Italian school. The school determines what the country will be; indeed, it is the index of what the country is. The desire for a rigid, bureaucratized, monopolar school that does not allow pluralism because it ignores the very serious difficulties faced by the peer schools, their pupils and their teachers is not really an indication of attention for the school. Today is May 27 and it is still not known when there will be state exams, already called exams of maturity. ( [[Applause]] ). Almost every night, however, we have some exponents of the government who tell us that it will be in one way and then in another; that they will all be promoted and then that it is not true that they will all be promoted and this has been going on for weeks. There is an inattention - to use a very kind word - really very serious on an important subject such as school. It is said that the experiment of the distance school was a great success when, even from demoscopic surveys, we know that almost half of the families did not manage to make their children follow these lessons because there are problems of poor Internet coverage in many parts of our country and I speak not only of the South, but also of certain areas of the North. There are many families who do not have the equipment and there are families with more than one child who have great difficulty in having more than one child follow the lessons. Undoubtedly these difficulties were unforeseen, but it cannot be said that it is a success if there is no certainty about the date of the examinations and if it is discriminated against with damage - not even in the medium but in the short term - for public finances. In fact, if private peer schools close, there will be hundreds of thousands of students who will go to state schools and the costs will increase because the state really costs much more students who attend state schools than those who go to private schools, and this cannot be a success. We do not believe that this decree-law gives the necessary answers to the country and for this reason we will vote favorably for the preliminary ruling in order not to continue its examination. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u201	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1) and Senator Pittoni and other senators (QP2). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u202	Mr President, the quarantine period that we have been experiencing for about two months has marked a disruption of the school system: improvisation and inadequacy have marked some schools and territories of our country. In the province of Novara, some teachers were denounced for meeting at school, where they would have to hold a meeting. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry: since there is no Minister, if at least someone on the benches wants to listen to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u203	The call was made by the senator, gentlemen of the government, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u204	MINUTE (FIBP-UDC). The teachers had invited the parents' representatives to deliver the textbooks that their children would use at home to carry out the tasks and teaching activities at a distance; an exaggeration, if you think that the initiative was aimed at implementing the distance teaching. We also do not understand why the Government itself envisages the presence in the school premises of administrative and technical staff, which in the larger institutions involves the simultaneous presence for seven hours a day of well over nine units, and then we must sanction teachers who are committed to carrying out their best duty even in a situation like this. It must be said that, after Novara, in our municipalities the primary schools did not deliver books, they closed them in a bag and deposited them on the counters and, from that moment on, many children could not study. I mentioned this episode, which is one of many to be taken as an example of how the need to give clear answers right from the start to both teachers and pupils and therefore to families who had to transpose the provisions. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u205	Colleagues, may I ask who is engaged in other conversations and is not listening to the senator who is intervening to sit outside the Chamber to continue her private conversations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u206	MINUTE (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, President. Many households have been economically proven by quarantine and are still stagnating. In many families, unfortunately, the unemployed dads, without income and often without social shock absorbers, are forced at home with their children, who have to carve out spaces to study and maybe do so without the appropriate technologies: this is where we have noticed that our country has an absurd technological deficit and we have to intervene immediately. The child to do distance teaching needs media, computers, iPads: I've already said it and I'll put it back here. In the schools of my city, Molfetta, but as in other countries, barely 8,000-10,000 euros have arrived, representing few crumbs compared to the real need dictated by the emergency. In these two months we have revealed the inadequacy of an education system lacking in a pandemic plan. Let us be careful: we are talking about education and we must not hurt. In a framework that drives optimism, even in the future the problems of a structural type remain: the student's virtual backpack in smart learning is empty. About 27 percent point out that there is not even a sufficient device in the family to allow all members to study or work at the same time and we are talking, gentlemen, about our country, about children who will be the future of our country. During these two months, teachers lacked adequate preparation for distance learning (DAD), not because of them. However, alas, if many teachers were not prepared and this pandemic came, in turn they did not do the teaching, the leaders could not force them and consequently our children could not study. The government would have done well to allocate funds only for the training of teachers. Do it now. Going back to the students, among the problems that the country has to solve there is also that of the Internet connection. Many members of our Group have already talked about this, but no one has solved anything yet. One in four, to date, does not have an Internet connection up to the level of the situation; another 36 percent has only recovered at the beginning of the emergency. The most recurrent causes of the difficulty of connection are due, for 61 percent, to the fact that they do not have a fast connection that supports the fluidity of the lessons, while 23 percent access the Internet using hotspots with a few gigas available and in a family you cannot have a child study with only a mobile phone [[Applause.]] 9 percent doesn't even have this. [[Applause]] Clearly, if we add up to all these problems, many students will risk staying at home. I've heard very little about school facilities, if not anything. We must monitor, we must provide funds to improve the structures and the school system; on the basis of the American school system, we must integrate into the cafeteria schools, which we do not have or are very few, working gyms, spaces for activities to be carried out in safety. There is talk of funds coming to schools, of amounts allocated to improve school, but then in the territories there is no knowledge of their destination. It is time for citizens to know what happens to these resources and where they end up. Moreover, it is of these hours the appeal of several non-profit associations to intervene in the conversion of the decree-law I throw again, in order to repair the serious injustices against the fundamental reality of the Italian public and paritarian schools. It is essential to consider the school system as unique, but articulated in state school and peer school. [[Applause]] In this way, it is right that adequate resources should be found for each other. Today we are still discussing this problem and it will always be our children who will be the future of our country. In conclusion, I repeat the need to stabilize precarious staff immediately, even if it has not reached the three years of service. The Minister says they only have three years of service, but that's wrong. I am thinking of the teachers who have been supplementing for a whole year or who have perhaps carried out training courses, competition courses, special enabling paths (PAS) or at the end of the course: what do we do, where do we send them? In conclusion, let's put our hand at this school because, if you think about it, most of our children spend half a day or maybe more at school rather than at home, that's where they form and then let's get on with it. I'm sorry the Minister's not here. I wanted to meet you. Today I listened to the news and Minister Azzolina goes all my sympathy for what happened; I know that he asked for the escort because she was threatened. I consider any form of dissent expressed through acts of physical or verbal violence unacceptable; the civil confrontation between the parties must always be favored, but alas I realize that the free insult is easy and is typical of those who obviously have no arguments to speak; therefore, the Minister goes all the solidarity of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u207	She is registered to speak Senator Alessandrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u208	Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues, the closure of schools is a wound to everyone. It is impossible not to recognize himself in this statement made by the President of the Republic on the occasion of a message addressed to the school world, which perfectly interprets the feeling of sadness of all the school workers, but at the same time becomes the bearer of the discomfort of millions of families, worried about the course and the quality of the training path of their children. We in this House today are considering a measure which should interpret the needs of certainty which require students and parents, but which is far from providing for actions that can provide clear and definitive solutions. The Minister, from the moment of his inauguration, showed a substantial closure to the proposals and solutions of the League and the centre-right in general, taking a biased attitude. I remember, indeed we all remember, his sudden abandonment of a video conference with all the regional councillors at the school, during which, without any form of notice and in total contempt of the most elementary rules of good education, avoided answering the questions that were asked to her. If this measure was to be his business card to show what the real intentions were, i.e. to contrast with the world of school, then I can assure you that it was very successful. This text is a mixture of contradictions, shortcomings and messy solutions. [[Applause.]] Would it not have been better to establish the closure of schools from the outset and not to opt for uncertain solutions? And then, what a mistake to proclaim right from the start that everyone would be promoted; in this way - we know well - many students could rest on this solution and thus avoid engaging to the end in distance teaching. Regarding the real possibility to carry out the distance teaching, it turns out that the data are very different from those provided by Minister Azzolina in the Senate; he spoke of over 80 percent of students reached, but the surveys tell us that almost 30 percent does not have at home a device to follow the teaching and 23 percent has connection problems. So 50 percent of the pupils cannot attend classes or, if they do, do so with much difficulty. In addition, the Guarantee Authority for Childhood and Adolescence has launched the alarm for children with disabilities, for minors in poverty and marginality, for those in the criminal circuit, for the children of prisoners and for children marked by the epidemic in the family. In order to make the right to education effective, it is necessary to ensure that those who have no connected PC or tablet are equipped with it, constantly monitoring how many students are actually reached. With regard to the problems of connection that I have mentioned, I want to recall a situation that concerns some parts of my territory, Umbria: I am referring to the seismic crater, where the optical fiber is still absent, so to support the load of Internet connections in the family and with more than one child, with parents who maybe work in smart working, is difficult, if not impossible. I want to stigmatize a fact: in these days of emergency by coronavirus, in the ridda of emergency measures and government press conferences, I have never heard a mention of the situation of the earthquaked territories. The inhabitants of these areas are experiencing an emergency. Students today, when they succeed, given the problems mentioned, they carry out distance teaching in temporary and poor housing solutions. Tomorrow, that is, since September, how will they return to the study in presence, since this will still need social distancing? Ante Covid-19 the children held their lessons in collective containers, already used by families, so in rooms not designed for school use, with spaces absolutely undersized even before the emergency. If it is a problem to respect the security distances, dictated by the various decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, in schools throughout the national territory, I do not know if the Government has realized or has in any way considered that in the crater this will be impossible. Was there anyone who cared about these kids' future? Who gives them the right to study? [[Applause.]] There has been and continues to be only a deafening silence about these problems. We know that the funds are there to build buildings large enough to accommodate students in compliance with the Covid directives. We make these yards a second bridge in Genoa, we use emergency regulations by way of derogation, we commit all the forces we already have in order to realize in short time new and definitive school structures, where large buildings, workshops, gyms and meeting rooms that for the continuation of the entire emergency could represent the necessary spaces to respect the safety distance. The sidereal distance from the daily difficulties of all Italian families called to face the consequences of your decisions is also seen from how to have ignored the earthquake populations. Therefore, I can only hope that a comprehensive legislative action on school can be developed, which is of an ideal and not ideological nature and which places at the centre, without distinction, the primary needs of the pupils, the requests of the teachers, the requests of the ATA and administrative staff; standards that respond in an appropriate way to the needs of the Italian families, called in this period of health emergency to face new and sudden problems that complicate their lives. All the more so, these people have the right to feel the educational institutions at their side, ready to provide appropriate and sensible solutions. Now I would like to address the Minister who I imagine is not present, despite the talk of school, because he will certainly have something better to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u209	The government is present, Senator Alessandrini, and is listening to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u210	ALESSANDRINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Well, that comforts me. So I turn to the Minister, telling her that I thought she was a colleague, because the teacher's is not just a profession, but she probably doesn't remember it or maybe she doesn't know it: being a teacher means sharing. As Plutarch said, the students are not vessels to be filled, but torches to be lit. But the Minister does not even know this, since she has recently come to build the sentence - I quote - Â the students are funnels to fill Â Â: words nonsense that I have also ashamed to listen. [[Applause]] Being a teacher means having colleagues to confront, and the Minister doesn't know that. To be a teacher means to be a guide, and the minister is not, to be a teacher means to give signs, but the minister has wanted to overdo and has left serious gaps and serious scars that will be difficult to fill. Today I have the privilege of being here in this robe that honors me and gives me the opportunity to represent my colleagues, my pupils, parents and all the school staff, all categories that today in fact you are mortifying, pretending to represent them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u211	He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, the only representative of the Government present, I am speaking on an issue that seems more marginal and certainly is, compared to the issues that have had media attention, such as those of precarious teachers or that of equal schools, but which I particularly care about and on which I invite you to pay attention. It is the theme of the exam of maturity of the privatist students: we are talking about a audience of about 17,000 people, who are considered by the government as B-series matures, but are first of all people with the same duties and rights as others, but whose rights have been blatantly violated and trampled on. [[Applause]] They are not unionized, do not lobbying, have no voice and are therefore unheard and abandoned to themselves. It is a little known world and often looked across, thinking that it is a searcher for shortcuts. Nothing more wrong; most of them are faced with an option that is obligatory in the face of situations and life choices. We talk about working students to a large extent, but the case studies are varied and also touch on the problems of the victims of the phenomenon of bullying. There are lives, stories behind these paths. There is Francesca, who works at the hospital in Verbania (he works as a social health worker in the Covid department) and who wants to graduate to enroll in nursing sciences. There is Thomas, who plays rugby in the youth national team, who for his sports career lives in a city where there is no school he attended in previous years. There are many like them, who ask to be treated like the other matures, following the same methods and the same times. And, instead, the government discriminated against them by providing, with this decree-law, evidence in presence when the interiors were expected to examine at a distance. We protested loudly to ask for the equivalence that, then, fortunately, in fact came, but only because the path of the interior has changed. What about the times? Left in total uncertainty for weeks, because the decree-law spoke of evidence to be held at the end of the emergency; it spoke of extraordinary session to be defined, not clarifying even if in September or beyond. Now we have a certain date for the preliminary tests, at least, that of July 10th. The disparity between internal and external is thus officially sanctioned by the Government. Discrimination has the force of law; but this fact - already very serious in itself - opens up another problem. For the exam of maturity you will have to wait mid-September, but there are those who need that diploma immediately because maybe he has a job that waits for him and that could now escape him, or who - and they are the most - wants to face the university path without risking to lose an entire year. [[Applause.]] We proposed that there should be the government's commitment to have the exams carried out by the end of July, or, at the latest, the beginning of August, and instead the majority solution is the classic patch worse than the hole: it is allowed to take the admission tests and enroll at the university before we do the graduation, so we will have students who, while working, will have to prepare, perhaps, for the one, for the 10 September, and for the other, for the 20 September: a real madness. There is no certainty that the dates do not coincide; they may be coincident. As they say on these occasions, cuckolds and bunches. You are trampling on the dreams of thousands of young people, those who will already be remembered and branded as the Covid Generation and who now, with extreme difficulty and discomfort, will try to take a diploma, despite all the obstacles you are putting at him. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by asking why we have reached this point. I believe that this is all because of the delays in Mr Azzolina's decisions. His constant hesitations and changes of opinion have led us to this point, to make choices with our backs to the wall and without room for manoeuvre. We have an inadequate minister who does nothing but damage. [[Applause]] Among the many disasters, even this damage done to the privatists will remain on her conscience, always assuming that she has one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u213	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u214	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the school was the first to go into quarantine and, apparently, it will be the last to leave, provided that the government and its 448 technicians find a strategy to get it out of this hallucinating situation. It would seem as if an attempt had been made, with the support of the pandemic, to dismantle the Italian school system, because indeed, in the light of the latest statements made by a member of the committee of experts appointed by Minister Azzolina - to which our own personal solidarity goes clearly, for what has happened these days - would be traveling towards a so-called hybrid school, destined to become permanent and no longer emergent, with good peace of the political decision-maker, who evidently stopped being essential, since he has never been asked about it. In other words, less time in the classroom and more at home; more distance learning, more platforms, more computer multinationals with full belly, but above all more inequality. Will that forced isolation of millions of Italian children who are putting a strain on them and all the families, be destined to last natural life during? I hope not. Ask moms if they want hybrid school, mothers who struggle to work, close to burnout. By the way, I'm impressed by the name: hybrid. "Ibrido" is a liquid concept par excellence, evokes a clear contamination between beings, the didactics in presence and the one at a distance, so different between them, that, while trying to merge, they will never, in reality, be able to transform themselves into a unique, because one is the denial of the other. The teaching in presence allows the flow of all communication channels available to human beings, the visual one, the auditory one and, first of all, the emotional and empathic one. Distance learning completely ignores any form of emotional transmission, too filtered by screens and pixels. The latter can always and only be a mere support, an instrument at the service of the former, never even remotely equated to it and never can and must replace it. Ask the kids and the kids if they want hybrid school. One in ten children does not have access to the teaching tool and that same tool, when and if made available, requires technological skills and basic tools often absent in children and parents. Dear representative of the Government, we have imprudently cleared a digital education, when in our school has not yet provided for education in general: I come to think, for example, of civic education. In addition, the technology is stressful and tiresome for children: I quote, for example, the new term zoom fatigue, a neoconiate definition by various psychologists and scientists, who have recently denounced numerous cases of fatigue and worsening of the concentration levels of those who carry out their activity exclusively on videoconferencing. Distance learning is the teaching of absence: absence of open spaces and encounters, absence of time, smells and perfumes. Let's face it: distance learning is a real disaster. For goodness sake, it is useful in a context of health crisis, but it can never become the rule. The DAD is a little more than a band-aid, that short-covered comic book by Linus, which, in order to warm up the feet, eventually strays the hearts of our children. In fact, let us not forget that precisely in the school age our children form their emotional maps, which allow them to realize that process of growth, which will bring them from the impulsive level, to the sentimental level and in this passage the school becomes fundamental. It goes without saying that caring for feelings and emotions is the specific trait of education, which for this very aspect differs from education, which is a mere transmission of information from one mind to another. But even this can never be effective, if before the heart has not opened, hooking the emotional and sentimental dimension of the student. This will only happen under two conditions, which have nothing to do with hybrid school. The first is that teachers, as well as an adequate knowledge of the psychology of the evolutionary age, have a minimum of empathy and are in the classroom, of course, to be able to share it with the pupils. Secondly, that the classes stop being trained as a chicken school and return to a reasonable number, which does not exceed 15 pupils per classroom. He reflected Prime Minister Conte, who in his speech, formulated right here in the Senate, had to say that he would be the defending lawyer of the Italian people, appealing to the deepest emotions of all citizens and using a clear evocative language, the lawyer of the people, that precisely with those emotions he wanted to dialogue, how inconvenient it could be to entrust himself to such technicians and sometimes to such ministers, that those emotions really want to dry up and empty: more serious error could not be made. In this crisis, in such a dramatic context, which puts a strain on the material estate of the entire country, we had to loudly take note of a fact: we could all count on teachers, forgotten, poorly paid, also victims of cuts in school, with parents in trenches, because sometimes they have to bring toilet paper from home. The teachers, even in times of coronavirus, not only did they not disappoint us, but they also made themselves a totally proactive part of the only solution in the travelable state, teaching at a distance, a solution that we continue to want to define with a loud momentary voice. It should be said that the deregulated use of these network technologies has found most teachers unprepared for the use of the teaching platform, because they have never been given adequate and free specialized training and because schools are largely unprepared. Yet it is to them that all the credit goes to have remained there, hooked to their students, even behind a screen, with books dematerialized and so much good will, ready to reinvent themselves, to warm those hearts that the short blanket and the distance teaching risk to freeze, as we have said, day after day. The school falls apart, but the Italian teachers resist and we are on their side, alongside all the teachers, today more than ever, and next to all those precarious teachers, with years of service and a specific training in their toolbox, created day after day with the study on the field, in contact with children and families; precarious teachers, waiting for stabilisation, on which the system has rested for too long. Well, it was necessary to consider... [[Call the president back.]] Isn't that eight minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They've passed, Senator. Anyway, I'm gonna try to get it over with. I'll give you one more minute. Thank you. They had to reconsider their position, they had to do it away from party slogans, propaganda beautiful words full of empty rhetoric. Unfortunately, what happened today in the Commission says a lot about little attention and little consideration. Because the doors are closed to the assumption for titles of these precious and essential figures, that at least you do not do so by invoking the Constitution. In September, the school has to reopen. It can sound like a Diktat but in fact it is: the school must reopen, to allow all children and boys to reunite with lost emotions. The perspective view of the emerging situation presupposed a direction towards broader and more forward-looking trajectories. For the coming year there will be many vacant chairs and this will have to make us tremble; it was not enough what was already happening. The contests anticipated in this phase of closure of the country, with prohibition of assembly, are absurd to assume and would have been poorly structured and discriminatory. Unstructured, because the extraordinary competition would entrust to a cross the future of work and the stability of tens of thousands of school precarious: the quiz replaces the experience gained on the field and the qualifications acquired in university years. Discriminators, because Law No 62 of 2000 equates peer schools to state schools: both belong to the national school system and, among other things, issue qualifications of legal value and perform public service; therefore there are no differences between teachers with previous service in the State and teachers with previous service in the peer system. The peer schools are often invisible and have no voice and for them they raise only feeble statements in favor of cameras. We fight to give face to these hundreds of thousands of students, parents, managers who in recent months, not least in these days, have populated an unprecedented virtual square for presence, for cultural thickness, for grace, for dignity, with the slogan "We are invisible for this Government." It was necessary to proceed - and I close - with the stabilization of teachers, which meant continuity of teaching to students and better provision of training to schools as a whole; it is clear how all the actors involved in the educational process would benefit from it. Individual well-being, President, generates social well-being; social well-being generates well-being for the entire country and for each individual who has roots in it, triggering a virtuous circle totally for the benefit of all. A virtuous circle that has nothing to do with austerity, public debt and the terror in which our lives have been thrown and, instead, has to do with welfare State and the saving dose of courage, dowry that for too long seems to have abandoned the stage of politics that governs us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u215	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u216	Mr. Undersecretary, I think you're very careful. For more than ten months now, this majority has held the school hostage of its perverse dynamics. It was immediately understood, from the day of the inauguration of this Government, that of our children, that is of the future of our country, you care little or nothing. It has been understood since you decided, for mere reasons of division of armchairs, to unpack the Ministry of Education and University in two separate Ministries, without any need. [[Applause.]] This is very important. Then things got worse and worse. Chaos reigned throughout the pandemic crisis: just think of how the schools were closed. Looks like a gossip. The announcement of the closing of the schools was beaten by the agency at lunchtime; a few minutes later the government denied the decision, except then confirm the suspension of the lessons at 18, throwing thousands, indeed, excuses, millions of parents in panic. This would be efficiency at a time of drama. The worst, however, was yet to happen. While we have listened to the Minister (who I regret is absent today because the subject is very important and delicate, but I see that the majority of the majority is not present in the Chamber) boasting that they have reached 94 percent of students with distance teaching and that 89 percent of the institutions have provided appropriate tools for pupils with disabilities, Istat told us, in its latest report, another reality, which is then the truth: one third of Italian families - to date - do not even own a computer; over 40 percent of the children, especially in the Southern regions, do not have enough technological tools to follow an online lesson. For this reason... [[Brusio]] Excuse me, but if you need to talk, book. [[Applause.]] I feel like they're talking to me in my ears.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u217	Senator, there is confusion in this House to the extent that everyone intervenes. If there's a colleague to call back, I'll do it. Please go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u218	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Truth always hurts. For this reason, in France as in many other European countries, governments have raised the problem of the fact that distance teaching increases inequalities and hastened to reopen schools, obviously ensuring distance to protect the health of pupils. The distance learning cannot entirely replace the one in the presence and to say it, Mr Undersecretary, it is not us, sovereignists, perhaps even a little ignorant, but a philosopher - Massimo Cacciari - who is well known from the parts of the party today most absent in the Chamber - the Democratic Party. Cacciari says: why not reopen the schools too? Kind of shows that a government dumps the responsibility for a political choice on technicians. Why not at least use the outside spaces of schools to allow children to resume a beginning of sociality? No way. You didn't listen to anyone. You decided to open the summer centers in fifteen days and the schools are closed from March 5. Beware that pupils and students are at home and the management of school education is left completely in the hands of families. Those same families for which our Group went to the INPS President this morning also protest because they are still waiting for the integration fund and the bonus. [[Applause]] Nothing, there is no economic support, neither at the educational-school level on the part of the government. It's absolute chaos. These months of closure and this debate on the school and its social function could be a great opportunity to plan and restore the schools that often fall apart; to make an update on how to integrate the online school with the education in presence; to take advantage of the experience of distance teaching; to reflect on how to avoid the disaster of the overcrowded chicken classes, which are dangerous for the spread of the virus, with schools that on the contrary close - and there are many - because they have few students, thus forcing the pupils of the most isolated centres, perhaps in the mountains, to make very long journeys to see guaranteed the right to education, although enshrined in our Constitution. I come from a Province, like that of Cuneo, which is for a third mountain community: every year there are huge problems, but they are addressed by local administrators, school leaders and parents. The government is completely absent. The schools will reopen in September exactly how they were closed. You presented, on 28 April, a decree in the title, such as this, urgent measures on the regular conclusion and the orderly start of the school year, but the urgency you forgot when the majority parties started arguing about how to recruit new teachers. Behind a public debate between the Government, the parties of the majority, between the cross quiz and the co-opting, a sad struggle has been hidden over those who wanted to claim a new wave of recruitment. That's why you've been bugging around for so long! A shame, which screams with the difficult moment that our country is going through and above all with the legitimate expectations of thousands of precarious people who have been working for years in the world of school and who have long been waiting for an assumption and who will certainly not have to say thanks to this or that majority party for having obtained what they legitimately owe. On everything, there are three issues you have to deal with, but you have to do it now, because school leaders are left completely alone. The first is that of the guidelines for the reopening of schools: there are three months to September 1st and there is no formal trace of how to act from September 1st onwards. [[Applause.]] The second is that of the staff: we talked about overcrowded classes, now the classes will have to double and the teachers must be hired before, not in October or November, because school leaders and schools must be functional from 1 September, we have already wasted too much time. The third is that of all those fragile workers who have been employed in the world of school, and there are many, there are schools that have even 20% of them and there is a profession, in particular, very delicate, that carries out a service within the school and that of janitors. These fragile workers must be protected, because they will certainly not be able to resume work as they have left it, but they must be replaced, schools cannot be left alone. We need to think about teachers, but we also need to think about this staff. There are - Mr. Undersecretary, tell the Minister too - the famous citizens' income recipients, which is not good enough for seasonal workers, because we have to hire the illegals, who do not want to be agents for that service that must be started at the moment, nor for the socially useful jobs: well, let us use them at least in the world of the school for the services they can carry out, because surely there will be a need for humble personnel and able to help the world of the school. Not to mention the eighth grade exams, because you emptied the hearts of teenagers, but also the heads of many teachers who followed them all year round. For fear of the judgment of the citizens, you are holding our country hostage, but above all the future of our children. Thousands of them less than a month after the fateful date, after the Government itself, the entire majority have changed their minds at least three times, they still do not know whether the exam of maturity will be in presence, via telematics or a mixture and this is very serious. It is your fault, of a ruling class, of the government that is completely immature towards the children. If our boys, parents, teachers, school staff are 10 and praised, you're from scratch. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u219	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u220	Mr President, of course I too would like to thank the Minister, but he is not here. We are well in shape, but we are not in substance, which is the problem of this measure. The Minister is in good company, because there is no Prime Minister Conte, there are no Minister Manfredi, Minister Di Maio, Minister Bonafede, Minister Gualtieri, Minister Dadone. An account is to put a signature on a sheet; another account is to put your face on a measure that does not solve problems. We are accustomed to the lack of respect for Parliament, which has been trampled on several times. But in this provision there was no willingness to listen and compare, and not only with us here, but also with the categories and with the operators of the school. There have been no skills and - I add - even the willingness to solve together the problems related to school. It is useless to remember, because unfortunately you do not understand it, that the school belongs to everyone. There are dozens and dozens of quotes; some we have heard and others we will hear. I too wanted to look for one that could make sense not so much of my speech, but of the situation we are experiencing. Calamandrei, who was certainly not a dangerous ligist, said that the school is that institution that performs the miracle of transforming subjects into citizens. This sentence could not be more right for this moment. But you'd like the citizens to remain subjects. Maybe they should be ignorant and enslaved by the incomprehensible decisions of a government. [[Applause]] Here is the Constitution, which we often forget, but which should be read and reread. According to Article 30: "It is the duty and right of parents to maintain, educate and educate their children." How should a parent today, in the face of such a measure as this before us, try to respect that right and duty? How can he do that in front of it? In cases of parental incapacity, the law ensures that their duties are fulfilled. Well, this provision does not help parents, nor fill that void when there is. Article 33 of the Constitution reads as follows: Art and science are free and free to teach them. I do not believe that a teacher has been free: he has been left alone and behind by this decree, as well as the other school workers. Private and private bodies have the right to set up schools and educational institutions without charge to the State. But equal schools, with such a measure, do not even have the right to exist and to continue to exist. I do not want to talk about the ex-IPAB schools currently open, which are in limbo: they do not have the rights of private individuals or even the guarantees of the public. Yesterday we saw a shameful scene: an amendment, even with the views of the Ministries, was lost in the street and did not arrive. We also trample on the Constitution with regard to employees who have children and who will not know how to manage them. But above all we trample on the children, our children, for the situation they are experiencing. It is too easy to say that this is the first time that we have experienced such a situation. Is this not the first time that France, Spain, Great Britain or Germany have managed a situation like this? I don't know how many task forces have mobilized and how many experts have appointed, but I know that a solution has been found and they have reopened or are reopening schools. We don't. What were you doing? You issued a decree-law on 6 April, due to expire on 6 June, which should manage a school year that will end on 10 June. Yesterday, the Budget Committee seemed to be a crossroads between the broadcast "Skills Apart" and the commercials of Italy 1, the ones made by the spectators. We have put forward proposals and tabled amendments, but you have rejected them all. Take at least one advice: let's send the kids back to school and home with the Minister, with the whole government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u221	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u222	Mr President, undersecretary De Cristofaro, I would have liked to make a speech today which would highlight a series of critical issues, which are certainly historical issues, as a result of a lack of planning of an extremely important sector such as the school sector. But those who preceded me have already highlighted the limits of the decree-law in question. Certainly I cannot fail to point out that the Minister lacks some experience, probably also because he is very young; at an extremely complicated time he did not manage to sum up the urgency of the immediate, of which we are all absolutely aware and that no one would have expected, and the vision that he should have had from the beginning, thinking not only of reopening, but also of what will be after this sector. We can now hear it in every way: the after Covid in all sectors of the real economy, and therefore also in the educational sector, cannot be like the period before the Covid. Therefore, this decree should certainly have given a more courageous perspective and a vision that - I repeat - we do not see so much not because of the amount of money that is allocated - it is certainly important - with the measure under consideration, but because of the quality of public expenditure. It is certainly not an issue to be underestimated. I am referring, above all, to the possibility that there would have been a new model of school to be understood more and more as a community of knowledge; a model that sees human capital as central - it must certainly be valued because it represents the future ruling class of this country - and that must put in place a series of measures that serve to stem educational poverty. I don't know if you've read an editorial by De Bortoli a few days ago analyzing human capital and educational poverty. I call on the House and the representative of the Government to reflect on this, because I am referring to those children who are in a precarious situation for the family from which they come or even for the territories in which they live. Already before the Covid, one million children were in absolute poverty and nearly 14 percent of the children abandoned the study prematurely. The closure of schools and distance learning will certainly not only lead to the loss of learning for those who have been invested by this extraordinary event, but also the loss - this is dramatic - of motivation to study, especially if those children are in a family context that - in my opinion - will slip further into poverty. I want to say something that has been told to me about what happened in a small municipality of the college in which I was elected. Two days ago, a two-year-old teen hanged herself. She was a good girl - the teachers did not define her as a girl who did not apply - who was attributed a solar character. This I truly say with great sadness and must make us think, because it is the real bet for the future. Leaving any child or boy behind means leaving our country behind. ( [[Applause]] ). It basically means losing a part of our country's competitiveness because children represent a part of human capital that will have to guide the development and growth of the country. When I talk about the quality of expenditure, I am also referring to the innovations that concern the digital technologies that you have rightly wanted to introduce. However, there is no great coordination within the Government: I have also made it clear to Minister Patuanelli, who is an absolutely decent person and listens a lot. If the ultra-wide band does not arrive in the so-called internal territories, those of the municipalities on the hills, in the Apennines and in the Alps, we leave the children who live there in a condition of lack of access to a form of education at a distance and, therefore, we impoverish them. Before planning all the various facilities, it is necessary to infrastructure the country, otherwise the children will not be able to follow a distance teaching, even if I think it is important. Having made these premises, I say that distance learning is important because training can be tailor-made, with reference to the potential of each individual boy. This would bring in a positive circuit the relationship between the family, the boy who needs to be trained, the teachers, the educators and so on. We must therefore rebuild this virtuous circle, which - alas - is not seen at all. A last very brief remark is the following: all the discontinuities that we have observed following the major industrial revolutions have nothing to do with the strong one that we are experiencing as a result of this crisis and digitalization. If you do not form the teaching staff, I do not know where you can go, although with good will - I repeat - you want to introduce technologies, with all their potential. The teaching staff is not ready to transmit knowledge, according to a model that can no longer be linear, from those who know who does not know: it is absolutely not yet able to do so. If to this we go to add the fact that it does not know how to govern these technologies, believe me: you are wasting money on the next assumptions, which are certainly important to stabilize, with all the forms that you have identified, but that will not attribute a formative quality to the future ruling class of this country. The soft skills that are at the center of a plan of the World Health Organization and that we should pass on to our teachers, so that they in turn transmit them to the students (i.e. the self-criticism, self-control, being together, etc.), are absolutely not in the strings of the teaching staff. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u223	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u224	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, that as a country we have not found ourselves prepared for the emergency, I think it is a fact that we have all shared; but that, after months, we still do not see the end of how to solve this problem is serious, and I stress that. We had months in which, for example, maintenance of school buildings could be done or training for teachers could be done. We've let all this time run without a vision or a perspective. After months, we say we have not seen any improvement, but we do not even have a goal: we do not know what will happen in September, we have no idea. In addition to being a senator, I also speak to you as the father of three children: the families, Mr. Deputy Minister, were left alone. [[Applause]] in front of the distance teaching and the immense burden of finding itself in fact the whole education of the children to burden completely on their shoulders. On distance learning we have no official data: how many students have really been reached? How many, on the other hand, have been completely excluded? What were the effects of distance learning in terms of the human and formative growth of students? What deficit will remain in the formation of young people who have been through these months of crisis? We have no idea what will happen next, whether everyone will be promoted or all failed. Beyond these aspects which - if you like - are linked to contingency, I would like to use the three minutes I have left to look up. Mr. Undersecretary, the school should be the construction site of a country's future: there we concentrated the greatest investments for what will be our tomorrow. What, then, is the school we want for our country? Why doesn't the government promote a broad debate on this? I also tell undersecretary Malpezzi that I can live and experience these problems. We must promote a new way of addressing the educational issue; for example, we are trying to concentrate - we do not know why - the technical training of our children, but do you know that every year in Italy there are 3,000 graduates in scientific subjects, when in India there are 500,000 and in China more than three million? What market do we think we're dealing with? What is the prospect for our young people? We focus everything on technical schools, when the whole world envyes us the classical high school, which forms beauty, strength, honor, sacrifice, commitment; not only the classical high school to tell the truth, but in general the school should form to this. Are we still convinced as a generation that we have something to teach the next? Our children in fact - and I've seen mine - are better at handling the computer, the tablet, surfing the Internet, finding movies on YouTube being digital natives. However, does this technical preparation exclude us from still having something to teach them? I am convinced that there are values that can and must be taught by a generation convinced that they have something to say to their children. I would like to mention one last point to the 900,000 students of the paritarian schools who, for ideological reasons, this government wants to suffocate. I repeat that it is for ideological reasons, because it is clear that a single school of state controlled is very convenient and does much to the heart; instead, let Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights be applied also in the third paragraph, where it is said that parents (and not the State) have the priority in choosing the kind of education to be given to their children, creates a people of free people who think with their heads. However, I wonder if this interests us, because then free people who think with their heads will not all vote for one party or another. In conclusion, Mr President, a psalm says that children are arrows in the hands of a warrior. The arrow is hurled, it is shot and, therefore, it goes away from the warrior, but where it goes to hit that arrow also depends on who takes the aim. Have we decided to take this aim, or do we want or let the arrows fall where it happens? I think this government, more than aiming, wants and has already laid down its weapons. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u225	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u226	Mr President, first of all let me express to our Minister, to our Lucia, all our solidarity for the heavy and shameful sexist offenses of which in recent days has been the subject and also for the death threats that today oblige her to shoot with escort [[Applause.]] I believe that this situation is painful for the whole world of the school, made up of so many good passionate teachers who every day deepen their commitment within the school institution; and it is painful for all of us, for all the good people who populate the school [[Applause.]] I will not dwell on the content of the measure when we examine it, because other Members will talk about it profusely. Instead, I want to take this opportunity to start looking at the near future and the distant future. Moreover, in this period of epidemiological emergency in various areas of our life as a national and global community, there is a need to deepen our reflections on the changes that this dramatic moment has imposed on us, imposed on our individual lives, but also on our lives as citizens belonging to the national and global community. And I want to start with distance learning, because in a decree already approved many resources have been made available to strengthen and, therefore, to ensure adequate instrumentation for students and teachers and to allow them to update their training accordingly. Resources have been allocated to strengthen the infrastructure network more and more because - it is true - unfortunately we are not yet able to cover the whole of the national territory, but we are devoting important sums to reach the important objective of giving everyone the opportunity to connect and, therefore, not to be excluded from the new community that, play force, has had to find new ways also to teach and to participate in the learning paths. Clearly, we need to do more. It is clear that monitoring will need to be strengthened and continued and it is also clear that three important aspects will need to be improved and strengthened: communication, interaction and inclusion in the new virtual classes, with particular attention to all children and girls, all students and students who have special needs, both temporary and permanent. It is important that there is no longer a student - as happened in a beautiful marathon dedicated to children and girls, which took place on Monday afternoon, while we were in the Commission voting for the school decree - to say that distance learning should not be teleworking. So we must strive to improve and strengthen these three fundamental aspects more and more. We must also continue to work to recover the laboratory dimension that has been suspended during this period. And, therefore, we must continue to work hard and believing ourselves to ensure more and more support for all students who need it and, therefore, to guarantee everyone the right to education and care and to work more and more to build that widespread school, that school that comes out of school and finds new spaces. And this is not only because there is a need to ensure the distance between people for health needs - I do not like the expression social distance, it is a physical distance imposed - but also finally to build that school that comes out of school, which becomes increasingly experential, which teaches more and more to know life and to acquire skills through the experience of these places directly and what happens in them: museums, studios, but - why not - also gardens. Finally, one thing that I particularly care about is that we must increasingly strengthen the teaching of humanistic subjects, but especially of art, music, theatre and dance, because, now more than ever, we need, through these disciplines, not only to strengthen and spread the knowledge of our precious cultural heritage, but also to provide thought gyms in which we learn to reason by elevating our spirit and also new forms of knowledge of history and acquisition of general culture. Ernesto Galli della Loggia last Monday, taking up an article by Ferruccio De Bortoli that has already been mentioned in this Chamber by my colleague Tiraboschi, about the ruling classes and what a community needs to form good top-level ruling classes - and I would also add to Galli della Loggia's reasoning on what is needed to develop a necessary and indispensable critical thought - said that there is a need to consolidate one's general culture. And this happens thanks to the knowledge of history, but also to the strengthening, precisely through the study of humanities, of one's own general culture. Galli della Loggia writes at a certain point - I quote - that it is necessary to know many things in order to have a sense of what is essential. Only a broad general culture (...) gives the flexibility, the orientation capacity, the breadth of horizons, which serve to make those choices of general scope and complex nature that are the typical choices that compete for a ruling class and - I add - that are the tools and abilities that all citizens need to be active and constructive part of a civil and democratic society, but also not to be unaware drinkers of fake news and to know how to orient in the vast sea of information that tends more and more to manipulate us and to take away spaces of democratic freedom. [[Applause]] They are ambitious challenges, but we are a courageous government team. We demonstrate this every day, fighting and finding a way to be together, even in deep diversity. [[Applause]] So, this ability of ours fills me with strength and feeds me - and I believe all of us - with great passion to move forward and achieve these ambitious goals for our community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u227	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u228	Mr President, the capacity of a government is measured by the quality of the services it is able to provide to its citizens and the school is undoubtedly one of them. If we were already to stop and give a judgment to this Government, we should say that it is rejected. The inadequacy of this Executive is reflected in the sufficiency and superficiality with which the subject of the school has been addressed in recent months. Those of you in this House do not remember the shameful ballet of statements and denials that accompanied the news of the school's closing in March, at the very beginning of this dramatic pandemic. First sources of government announced the closure, then statements by the Minister denied and finally the umpteenth press conference, clearly late in the evening, which announced the closure of schools, leaving thousands of families, from morning to evening, alone to face the closure of schools and therefore also the management of their children: a great discomfort. School and family are two important chapters that have been completely forgotten by this Government; just those families that, through smart working and distance teaching, have kept this country together on the difficult front of work and above all, since we are talking about it, of the school. And all this happened while the government did nothing but add ads to ads, promises to promises. So, with the favor of the night - this is a government that works with the favor of the darkness - you have decided to close the school - and this will not be the only night decision - far from the eyes of the Italians so that they could not see the internal contrasts that you have had, that you continue to have and you will certainly have even in the coming months, and especially your inability to manage such an important topic as the functioning of the school system. With the night you forced the Italians, the school staff and the teacher, alone - and I stress alone - to carry on a sector abandoned to itself. Even today - for example - we do not know how and when the school will reopen. The internal confrontation with the majority is increasingly evident and has blocked for weeks the decree-law that we are discussing here. And only one night meeting - the umpteenth - has allowed the launch of this accordocchio, which in the end is a new mockery for the precarious who will continue to be such and who for the umpteenth time are denied the possibility of a recognition after years and years of commitment within the school. Other than fighting precariousness, as President Conte repeated. Here we are at the precariousness that is done, unfortunately, system and also rule. Brothers of Italy, from the beginning, had made it clear that this provision had to be revolutionized. We have tabled 41 amendments to the school decree-law and several agendas, trying to make our contribution, in the interest of the school world. We are for the stabilization of the precarious and the recognition of their right. Only in this way can we guarantee the beginning of the new school year. The farce contest you want to put in place at all costs is a crime against the entire Italian school. Instead, the Ministry must ensure updates, make rankings. And it is scandalous - I repeat because it is actually also difficult to use another term - as Minister Azzolina said, that the Ministry is not able today to update what are the rankings. Once again, our school precarious people, those who have held their fate to this day and who have made history of it, are being hit and humiliated above all. And we can't help but denounce that it's shameful that this decree-law doesn't pay attention to our peer schools. Despite our initiatives, pointed out in recent months to the Minister, this world continues to be ignored and considered as the child of a lesser God. It is clear, therefore, that it would have been necessary to take courageous decisions, capable of permanently and even permanently changing a situation, which we can say decades of age, dictated by instability, didactic discontinuities, lack of enabling paths that lead the teaching staff to the role. The Italian school and all its actors need teachers who are trained, and also prepared for the challenge of an increasingly complex society, from a competitive perspective and which must be equal with our Europe. Teachers cannot be selected on the basis of mere notions, as would be the case with multiple-choice computer testing, as required by the 2019 Decree, but must be selected on the basis of their cross-cutting skills, the same as those required by students. The unprecedented situation in which our country has found itself has put all of us to the test. The role-playing staff, as well as the precarious staff, gave their best in order to be able to continue at a distance the work done in the presence. Iniquitously, this government - particularly the Minister of Education and also some members of the 5 Star Movement - has criticized - to use a euphemism - the 170,000 people who each year contribute to the regular start of the school year, instead of finding alternative solutions and common sense to the long-standing issue of recruitment. The data speak for itself: no European country allows to select the staff through a computer test, multiple choice. The teachers of precarious and role do not escape the evaluation, as stated several times by some representatives of the Government: what they do not accept is the illogicality of the proof, which, according to the Minister, should assess the merit. But what merit can be assessed with a test with 80 questions in eighty minutes? Let's remember that the number of deceased for Covid-19 is still high, but at the same time we ask those same teachers to move, in these months, to support an illogical test, not suitable to select them. This is what was banned by the Minister on 28 April 2020. And precisely on the contest the inadequacy of this majority has been measured again, which more and more resembles amateurs to the miscarriage. With the favor of darkness you have signed an agreement, on the skin of the precarious and on the future of the school, that the majority has been taken back in the next few hours: a contest to be held no longer in summer, but in autumn, without saving the contractual position of the precarious, to which only the umpteenth fixed-term contract will be guaranteed. It is once again a mockery of those who have ensured the continuity of school activity and will allow the same openness as schools. The whole world of the school has been held hostage for weeks - and I say for weeks - of this all internal power struggle of the majority, enticing the struggle among the poor. We must be close to the precarious and role-playing teachers, showing them that politics is close to them. Mr President, I would like to ask you a few more minutes, because I am the only one who is speaking for the Brothers of Italy Group in general discussion. We are starting up real professional and selective courses in itinerant and outgoing, managed by the Ministry, so that finally the formation is national and recognizes the years of sacrifices that precarious personnel have endured and are bearing during this period. Specifically, the courses would provide for the acquisition of university credits, divided into theoretical courses and laboratory activities, with six-monthly and also annual duration, managed by the Ministry of Education, University and Research, in collaboration with Italian universities, on a national unique platform, in mixed, online and in presence or totally online in case of a permanent health emergency by Covid-19. In 2020 we want to recruit staff on the basis of their cross-cutting skills: on the basis of non-deserving skills, as someone wants. Our response must be immediate and effective. In a week's time, participants in the competitions will have to submit their applications for participation and, therefore, we need to amend the draft law in question to give them a strong signal of change. In conclusion, the decree-law in question was the right opportunity to repair the many twists, which we have long denounced and in fact make our school inadequate. As I said, it would have taken courage and instead the fear of change prevailed, or perhaps it would be better to say the convenience to defend the interests of the individual parties of the majority. Thus the school as an institution has been sacrificed again, even in its role of training. Mr President, I would like to end by saying that we also have the fear that on the bill of conversion of the decree-law the Government will unfortunately reserve us a bitter final surprise, namely the position of the question of trust, which would help to overcome the difficulties within the majority, frustrating our amendments, all aimed at overcoming the distortions created by the decree-law and the arrogant action of the Minister. The appeal to the vote of confidence is very serious: it is a coup de grace to the Italian school; a crime against pupils, families, school leaders, teaching and non-teaching staff and it is a choice that, again, prevents the opposition from contributing with its own amendments to the improvement of the measure under consideration. Colleagues, you have not only the Italian school, but also all the students and teachers at heart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u229	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, I wondered whether Parliament was involved in time for the conversion of this decree-law. In the title of the measure, I read the start of the school year. All right, but where is it written? No article deals with the issue of reorganization and recovery of lost learning. Start-up is a concept that not only concerns a date, but also a complex system, which has many repercussions on the lives of students. Have you noticed in the text of the decree-law the number of times in which teachers are quoted, precarious people and how many times instead students? Does it seem normal to you that children, boys and teenagers have returned to school throughout Europe and not in Italy? I understand that the issue of the stabilization of teachers is important and that it pays electorally. But how are you planning on getting students back into class? Still with ordinances, excluding Parliament? Or taking inspiration from how you are organizing summer centers? I refuse to think that you are so incapable. Do you really believe that distance learning, with a tablet or video, can replace a frontal teaching, made of sociality, interaction, comparison and real emotions? Surely you have checked that teachers are adequately prepared for distance teaching; I am sure you have. And so, with what scientific criterion - given that science or pseudo such seems to go out of fashion - have you measured this effectiveness (why have you measured it)? Many of you who have children will surely have noticed that children can no longer stay at home: they want to go back to school, see their classmates, their teachers, return to normal. Is anyone considering the psychological impact of this immense damage? Which of you will take responsibility for this? [[Applause]] Do you know that one in three teenagers is depressed? What does the government do in the face of this alarm? When do you plan to take care of the psychophysical health of the youngest? Oh yeah, maybe they're too small and they don't vote. [[Laughter. Applause.]] Over the past few months, parents have replaced their teachers. You will certainly have spoken with your friends with children of school age; you will have felt the difficulties they encountered. And you plan to solve everything with a contribution to the purchase of tablets. We bring the kids back to class, we really structure the schools, we invest in technologies and digitization, to be ready in case it serves, even for distance teaching; but first of all we think of the students, to make them recover the lost time and the fundamental notions, for a quality school, for a society that looks to the future of everyone. We are talking about equal schools, for example: do I know that school pluralism is not a value for some of you, but 150 million euros are sufficient for 12.547 equal schools? Do you know that equal schools save millions of euros to the state and, in some regions, are the only answer for children? If the peer schools are unable to reopen in September and bear the costs of management, do you really believe that the school system is able to take charge of all students? There is not only ideology in the choices that are made, but above all the future of the children. [[Applause]] In the hearings held in the Health Commission, we have been told that children from zero to ten years of age are not exposed to the virus because of the evidence to date. On the basis of what scientific evidence are you considering limiting the number of children in the organization of classes? It is a solution that could also be shared, if the goal were also to improve teaching. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What, then, are the solutions you are considering? And if the poor foundations that will guide your choices turn out to be unfounded, who will pay for the social damage suffered in these months and in the near future? One of the two technical committees that the Minister makes use of? Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us put the students back at the centre; let us reopen the schools with method and organization; let us build recovery paths for the months when the students have not gone to school; let us put the local authorities in a position to organize themselves structurally in order to guarantee the right to study in safe conditions, without having to give up their relationship with others. It's about the future of our society if you haven't figured it out. If you really care about school pluralism, helping families and students, accept our amendment to immediately set up a fund for private schools and kindergartens. Prove, at least once, that you really think about families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u231	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u232	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, among the many deserving and destructive people, the Covid-19, however, had the merit of bringing back to the general attention the issues of school, the training system and education. I must say that I do not agree with Mr Pillon when he says that the debate on school is low and does not look to the future. I believe that for a long time there has been no further in-depth discussion of the school, whose improvement, from the regulatory, organizational, innovation and efficiency point of view, is decisive for the future of our country. The measures taken on physical distancing (I agree with my colleague Montevecchi, because I do not like to talk about social distancing, which evokes other situations) forced us to become aware of the state of our schools: from construction to reception, from space to computer equipment. The attempt to think of a new didactic has had to give up in the face of the structural and organizational limitations that have always plagued our school buildings. I am thinking of the overcrowded classes and classrooms at the limits of agibility already under normal conditions; of the amalgamations of institutions and the very high number of commuting students (made, the latter, which in itself made impossible the normal school activity even if the schools had all been normal, such as the Platonic Academy or the Aristotelian Peripate). Distance learning has also had to deal with a number of material and delayed use of this opportunity. I am thinking of the many families, as has been said, without laptops or tablets and the absence of Network in many small mountain or peripheral centres, but also of the fact that many teachers have had to improvise new ways of teaching to which they were not prepared, without the traditional media: books, blackboards, chalks and above all the café capacity that alone can capture the attention of the children. I believe that, despite these limitations, we must say thanks to the teachers - both those of role, and those who are precarious, without any distinction - who have put it all in order to compensate for the absence of physical, social and cultural contact, which are indispensable elements for the virtuous circuit of formation. Let's face it: the school without the voice of the boys, the sound of the bell and the recreations is not the same. A school without a school community is a contradiction. Which one of us doesn't think high school was the best in our lives? All this has been interrupted for several months and who knows if and when you can return to normal. But it is absolutely a priority to return to normal in safety. Now the school year can close, in the emergency phase, with the measures adopted by the Government, with some small integration suggested by the work of the 7th Commission both for the scrutines, and for the final examinations of the first and second grade secondary school, with full legal value of the degree of study. The problem of educational poverty, which involves many social groups and many territories of the country, remains, and has certainly increased with distance teaching. The problem remains for students with disabilities, in need of a personalized journey because of their learning disorders, which must be put in the best conditions to complete their training. For the start of the new school year, it is necessary to invest in additional resources both for students with disabilities and for those admitted to the following year with training debts. The schools must reopen, this is an absolute priority, if necessary even with the doubling of the classes or assigning suitable new spaces to them. To think that distance learning can also be for the future the main road, as someone has also argued, is totally misleading. It is certainly an opportunity offered by the use of new technologies, but it is at most a supplementary opportunity, not a substitute. At most, it could solve the problems for commuter students forced daily to spend three to four hours of their day between trains, buses and long waits at the stations, time that they could use more profitably if their countries had served by broadband and if school principals were working. It is therefore necessary to combine tradition with modernity with criteria, so that our country can make full use of technological innovations without sacrificing its traditions of excellence. We are the home of Humanism, we must never forget it. From us was born that thought, then spread throughout Europe, which through a critical rethink of the ancient world introduced us to modernity. The birth of the book, since Plato's time, has contributed not only to the cultural and human formation of people, but also to the affirmation of a tradition of thought in continuous progress and systematic character. The invention of the press and the subsequent diffusion of the book at mass level have then affected the evolution of the modern age, promoting progress and science, influencing the organizational matrix of the knowledge transmitted by the school. To see, the paper book is, together with the wheel, the oldest technological object and is constantly evolving in its materials, in its techniques, in its design and is not expected to disappear, despite the continuing crisis of the publishing sector. The fact that children today are more familiar with digital and multimedia information must not lead us to give up the main instrument of all cultural growth. Learning on texts in digital format risks being in fact superficial and episodic, if not accompanied by personal insights, which certainly do not flow automatically, without the stimuli from the teachers. Another hot topic for the regular beginning of the new school year is that the teachers and all the staff of the school are in their place from the first day of opening, in fact we have to think of additional staff for the educational needs, for possible double shifts, for the supervision, for the recovery courses. Thus, since September 1, I have been entering the role, also with the transformation of the chairs in fact into a chair of law. The Movimento 5 Stars has always declared itself for the entry in role based on merit and contrary to sanatories, because it has always put the students in first place. But this very reason has led us today, given the impossibility of carrying out the competitions quickly, if not with multiple-choice tests that all can evaluate except merit, to move at the end of summer a selective written test that attests the actual skills of the teachers. That's what the kids and their families were asking for. In conclusion, Mr President, this horrendous outbreak from Covid-19 has exposed the limits of our education system, showing us what we were not always willing to see, and forces us to sharpen our ingenuity to find solutions capable of looking beyond the emergency, to school buildings finally in accordance with the norm, to the classes no longer overcrowded, to the maintenance of school principals in the smaller centres, to the reduction of the very high commuting, to a precarious no longer from European primacy. To conclude, we must make of necessity virtue, with a courageous but necessary program of investments for the future of our children and therefore of the entire country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u233	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u234	Mr President, I rise briefly in this general debate to bring the voice of students and parents, concerned about the impact this crisis is having on the world of school. But first I would like to join in the assessments that have been made by some of my colleagues. As you know, from a parliamentary point of view, I am not responsible for matters; I am involved in other matters, in financial matters and in financial stability. I am sorry that I missed part of the debate, as I am committed to commenting on yet another episode of European nothing for the press and for my fellow Members concerned. However, I have been a teacher and I must fully associate myself with the words of the many people who have wished the school to become again a place of culture and not a factory and a reservoir of skills. This is a fundamental junction. I would like to associate myself with those that I hope have highlighted how to forge a school that pursues a so-called world of work, a reality that is constantly evolving, condemns to always lag behind and that sometimes turn your gaze back, anchoring to its roots and its cultural models would equip our young people with tools for the reading of reality that would allow them to adapt with immediacy and creativity to the challenges that the world will always place before them more frequently and with greater unpredictability, as this virus was unpredictable. I would therefore like to remind you that school is idleness, to be put in opposition to the shop, that is to say to the trouble of economic life. I would like to make here a praise of boredom and idleness, which I regret so much and which unfortunately here I no longer have the opportunity to savor, but which represent moments of growth. On the subject of didactics, I think it has already been said by many that distance teaching cannot replace presence. It cannot do so for technical reasons and for human reasons. We have been forced to work at a distance for a few months. Has any of you had the good of teleconferencing without interruption? Yet we are in technically very well-equipped institutions and we are also people who are on average alphabetized. Imagine what can happen with teachers or students who may not have the preparation or technical tools. So, I would like to bring you here the voice of those students who, having had in recent months the impossibility of following a normal school course, are now faced with an examination of maturity of which they still do not know exactly what the procedures will be. You know that our proposal was to proceed with a written paper and an oral discussion at a distance. It was a proposal of common sense; you also know how it went. I would also like to clarify one thing to all of us: it is time to reject the logic of the emergency. I expect this invitation to come from the fanatics of the Scientocracy, or the dictatorship of scientists. How can we rely on scientists - excluding the political decision-maker from the democratic circuit - and then not rely on scientific evidence? When this disease came, we didn't know her. Many decisions, perhaps, seen in hindsight, may seem irrational, but I do not allow myself to evaluate them or criticize them more than much, but now it has been months; we have collected data; we have interpreted them and, therefore, I would like to remember - just to say one - that in any zero mathematics it is zero. We had zero male victims between the ages of ten and nineteen, which add to the zero female victims in the same age group and which, therefore, give a total of zero victims between the ages of ten and nineteen. We know that the lethality of this disease (which must however be monitored, controlled and against which all appropriate garrisons must be taken) under the age of forty is virtually nothing. We must therefore stick to this fact of the scientific and statistical evidence that has accumulated to build a strategy that allows students to return normally to the classroom, concentrating the protection effort on those who, on the other hand, are in higher age classes also in the school world. However, perhaps it would be appropriate to lower the average age of teachers by hiring some young teachers. This could be an idea, which was also taken forward during the debate in the committees on substance. The logic of emergency and terror must also be rejected because this political notation - which I regret to say - seems to me to be the logic with which this Government has chosen to take so many shortcuts and continues to want to maintain its power. I bring to you the voice of concerned parents in the face of the hypothesis that children should return to school in frankly questionable conditions, with their faces distorted and with bracelets that warn them. He's seen and heard a bit of everything. There are also parents who have sincerely thought of organizing themselves with homeschooling. Rather than subjecting their children to such trauma, they thought alternative solutions could be better. I hope that common sense prevails and that we move on to solutions that allow that interaction between teacher and student that is fundamental and that also allow children to have a normal social life. The school itself is a controlled place. Of course, there are schools that, under various conditions, may not allow adequate distance, but the half-full glass of the demographic crisis is often having classes that are all in all oversized compared to the number of students. Why not allow the resumption of courses, therefore? That's what we're wondering. The experience of other European countries shows that it is possible to do so. I do not understand why we are always inspired by these countries when it comes to adopting policies that harm us and, for once we have examples that would be viewed favorably by many families, we refuse to observe the best practices of others. The classroom can become a health care center compared to a family where perhaps the parent is "smartworking" somewhere and the child grazes, without even the possibility to control and measure his fever. So, let's think about the recovery of normality. The school is open to everyone, says Article 34 of the Constitution, but, as experience shows, it is not connected to everyone: and then, if we want to ensure the right to study, I think we will have to go back to the old quite quickly and, as Greens said, it will be progress. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u235	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u236	Mr President, there was a time when education was a privilege for a few and not a right for everyone. This is the theme I constantly think about, in this time so difficult that we live, in which since March 5 - not because of us, but in order to respond to the health emergency - the schools of our country are closed. This crisis, which is first and foremost a multiplier of injustice and inequality, is once again strongly bringing the fact that never under any circumstances in democracy can it be tolerated that education is a privilege for the few and not a right for all. We have made efforts, of course, to ensure that didactics, through funding for tablets and connections, reach as much as possible to those who live on their own skin the injustice of being born in the wrong place or in the weakest family. We know, however, that, despite our efforts, today we are experiencing the defeat of thousands of young people who are not assured of teaching continuity and are foreclosed the most important good for their emancipation. For this reason we know that today we are experiencing a defeat that every day that is prolonged is unbearable, because the school is first of all socialization, taking care of one another, knowing how to take care of the problems of others, that make us mature civil and political conscience. I began to develop my political commitment because in school, in elementary school, I couldn't stand that the kids who came from the country were treated worse than those who came from the country. It is the awareness of the world around us. This is the issue we have today, so we must make sure that we have a plan for restarting. Having it for school means having a plan for childhood and adolescence, for those - especially the youngest children and young people living a special educational need or disability - who need to return, to be with others and to grow up together with others. There is the republican school and it is no coincidence, Mr President and honourable representatives of the Government, that the first demonstration that there was after too long has been beautiful and colorful, of so many boys with their mothers, their fathers and their teachers, who said "let us go back to school," we need it as oxygen or bread, because the school is a great collective intelligence. Moreover, the sign that more than others held those demonstrations together in so many cities of Italy quoted a phrase by Antonio Gramsci: "Instruct yourselves because we will need all our intelligence." We cannot help it because we risk losing entire generations, at an enormous cost to the civil and economic world. All this has absolutely to do with the decree-law under consideration. We have tried to do this by trying to intervene on the text under discussion, which in our opinion (in my opinion) was born too limited, too linked to a single urgency, albeit important, that of securing the examination of maturity, the state examination for the last years of the cycles. With our amendments, however, we have tried to make sure that he takes care of reinventing the school, to secure next year as an extraordinary year that he can reinvent the school from the needs of those who are excluded today, those children who are out of citizenship. In order to do so, it is necessary to put at the center who works in the school, who in recent months, reinventing himself, has made sure that the emergency teaching went ahead, to hold hands with the most distant boy. I am thinking first of all of the teachers, with them the school leaders, the technicians and the administration, but first of all of the teachers and among them first of all of the precarious and among them of the alternates, who have made sure to keep this line of community alive. When I intervened here in the Senate in mid-March, I said that we absolutely had to make sure that we were able to hire more than 24,000 precarious people who had been agreed and that is why I was also reprimanded by my side for saying too much. Instead, our amendments have specifically called for this qualitative leap and we have a first step forward today, if it is true that in the so-called re-launching decree we will have the opportunity to stabilize another 16,000 teachers, in addition to the two competitions for 24,000 each, for a total of almost 80,000. We strongly asked that the decree-law in question, although at the beginning it did not deal with this subject, should deal with the way in which we must stabilize precarious teachers; in short, it should deal with the precarious, because it is the main theme in our society and in the school. We have said with force: woe to think of being able to do a test in full health emergency with an incalculable risk and trouble also - we have said it forcefully, breaking a taboo - to think of being able to evaluate the quality of the teaching, to be able to evaluate a teacher, on the basis of some cross quizzes, because it is a deeply unjust system. By virtue of this political initiative of ours, our amendments, today both are no longer there. However, Mr President, we are still far from a solution, and that is why I did not vote by a majority in the Senate today, and that is why I will not vote for the measure under discussion. This text still pervades the idea that being precarious is a fault, that it is not the result of the injustice of the system; there is not in this provision that enhancement of the teaching profession which is the instrument that we must put at the center of any stabilisation procedure. On the other hand, there is still, in a pervasive way, the echo of a wrong debate, even denigratory towards the precarious, that rather than include them and stabilize them, leads to marginalize them again, to keep them in limbo. I will not vote for the measure in our examination, Mr President, because there is practically nothing on one of the distinctive themes of our school system: the teachers of support, the distinctive theme of inclusive teaching, what has made the school great in our country with reference also to the rest of Europe and to the more advanced democracies at the western level, because precisely the support is inclusion and citizenship. The risk of taking a step back on the issue of the promotion of the teaching profession, the risk of not facing the new year with important instruments on the subject of support, Mr President, is too great a boulder on this measure. We do not need to go back to normal; those who say that we must go back to normal say a falsehood, unless they want to endorse a normality made of inequality and injustice in school and, therefore, in society. We need to innovate, to change; we need a great public debate on the school, we need a constituent for the school. We need to claim funds for public school, which are not there, for more classes and more teachers. In conclusion, I could say that there are important measures in the measure, for example, the introduction of discursive evaluation, rather than the numerical evaluation for primary school, but I could say that we have not been able to approve, for example, a measure to ensure that in classes with disabled children there are no more than 20 pupils or to reduce the size of the number in schools in order to allow the territories, especially the marginal ones, to have school as a community. That, Mr President, we cannot fail to have an idea and a vision about school because it is wrong not only to one sector, but to an entire country, to the new generations. It is a wrong that we cannot allow for any reason. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u237	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u238	Mr President, I would like to thank the Government, particularly the Under-Secretarys De Cristofaro, Malpezzi and Ascani, Minister Azzolina and the rapporteur, Mrs Angrisani. [[Comments]] There's the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u239	The government representative had come to the Presidency to see the order of interventions. Therefore, Senator, if you have not been offended by this fact, you can also continue without the call of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u240	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I saw that the Undersecretary was near you. I would also like to thank the whole of the 7th Commission, a majority and a minority, because I really believe that there has been a great deal of confrontation, with absolutely civil tones, on positions which are also very divergent, but also some positions which perhaps were closer to us. Today, with delay, unfortunately, yes, with delay, we finally reaffirm the right to study, the merit, the quality of teaching, equality and school autonomy, the protection of boys and girls with disabilities. Let me say that for us in Italy Viva a great result that today enters into the school decree is that of the school building, with the approval of the shock plan to unlock the yards in the schools. [[Applause]] That money and resources that are already in the coffers of the Municipalities and Provinces - and that may not have been used so far - thanks to the structure that the Renzi Government had built and that Italy Viva has carried on. We finally got there, and I thank the government for that. Above all, colleagues and colleagues, through this decree-law, but not only, we must put the students, families and their needs back at the centre. The school is one of the main assets of our country; it is not only a right to study, it is not only knowledge and knowledge, it is also an educational service. It is the formation and growth of the individual. The school is for us all this, but also more, because it is a report, it is sociality and inclusion: all words very dear to us, which I believe we can share in this House, even between the majority and the minority. I would like briefly to mention a few issues that give us the idea of how important this educational sector is. We think only of the state school: more than 40,000 schools throughout the country, more than 13,000 schools for children, almost 15,000 primary schools, 7,000 first grade schools, almost 6,000 second grade schools. A total of 370,000 classes for 8 million students. Added to these are peer schools, which in the previous school year were almost 13,000, with nearly 900,000 students attending them. This is because - as I said at the beginning - we believe in equality and school pluralism; there are state schools and there are equal schools. Just these numbers give us the idea of how important the school is. Let us look at the essential phase of our children's development and growth. If we think about this, we understand that with this measure we begin to protect all our students: the girls and boys of the state schools, of the paritarian schools, the disabled and also the privatists, of which little has been talked about, but there are also them: there are 17,000 girls and the guys privatists who attend our schools and are not B-grade guys. School is the fundamental garrison of some of the main rights protected by our Constitution, where only one rule must apply: freedom and equality of citizens. In essence, it is a fundamental part of our life and school, but it is also a fundamental driver of the economic development of the country system. Economic studies demonstrate the close correlation between school learning and a country's economic growth, reaffirming the value of education as a central lever of development. Similarly, it is evident that the level of education is related to a better state of health and extends life expectancy. A strong positive correlation is observed with several indicators that measure the democratic functioning of society, with the degree of participation in political and associative activities and with the level of legality. There are many reasons why from this decree-law (and not only) we start talking about school again. But let's start again to talk about how to rebuild an emotional, social and relational well-being of our children, who have suffered most of all this difficult and dramatic moment. The school found itself having to react in an emergency situation without preparation and with the risk of compromising the growth path of entire generations of students. Yet, it has succeeded, because teachers have been extraordinary in doing this complicated work even in these difficult months. Similarly, we must fight for the principle of intergenerational justice. Thank you so much. Thanks to all the boys and girls. Let me say, let us really do good luck to all those who, in the next few days, will face great trials, not only of maturity, but also of the eighth grade exams. Before closing my speech, Mr President, I would like to address a few points very quickly. The decree-law today at our examination brings words like "merit". On the other hand, as we have said, we do not want a promotion with the 6th politician, we do not want a promotion for everyone, but we ask for an evaluation of our boys and our girls. The quality of teaching is a central theme: we must absolutely stabilize the precarious, with very high qualifications, but for too long precarious, and we are very pleased to have obtained tens of thousands of additional places. At the same time, however, we have claimed that Italy Viva - and we are pleased that our proposal has been accepted - is a real and selective competition to be held in absolute safety when the conditions allow it. But this contest will have to be done, even with a written test. These are some of the results we bring home: pluralism, equal schools. Here are some resources, there is a total budget of 150 million euros for equal schools; there are still few, but we know that others will enter the decree-law relaunch. On this front too, ladies and gentlemen, we must fight in all the seats, Chamber and Senate, in order to obtain more resources for equal schools. Moreover, the protection of disability, as I said before, individualized educational plans and the direct involvement, in this delicate context, of the opinion of families, to which goes an infinite thank you also on our part. Finally, the safety of our buildings. As Italy Viva we would immediately have wanted to reopen the schools as happened in other countries. Unfortunately it did not happen, but we take advantage of this moment when the schools are closed to really start, through the plan of deburocraticization and unlocking yards, to secure our schools, our buildings, and above all to organize the spaces for when the school year will resume in September. It's a job we have to do today. There are all the conditions to be able to do this from here to September. If the government works in this direction, we will be there and we will be at the side of the Minister, in this difficult work, that we must all do together, not for the sake of a political part, but for the sake of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u241	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u242	Mr President, I am speaking at the end of a long day when we have been late to open the debate because there were issues to be discussed in the Commission before arriving in this House, and I find myself speaking at 8 p.m., with the pleasure of hearing what my fellow Members have said: mostly the opposition colleagues, but I must say that even those few interventions by the majority have aligned themselves with those that are the values, the objectives (but also the concerns and hopes) that we want to bring home, not from this measure, but, as often happens, from the next one, from the decree-law relaunches Italy. Among the fundamental elements that build a decree-law are its articles, and the first and second articles of this provision have two very concrete points of view that refer to a precise responsibility, that is, what to do to close the school year. The second point is what needs to be done when the school year begins again. The strong questions are how to evaluate the work done in these months, being distant from both the excessive emphasis of those who spoke of distance learning as the discovery of hot water, and - without even tearing their clothes - from the drama of those who have lived these months as the great damage done to the development process, the acquisition of skills and content and the lifestyle of our boys. We do not want to emphasize the success of distance learning, but we recognize its merit, in a situation that, sudden and dramatic, has fallen on the school, the family and the social and working system, but we cannot say that we are completely satisfied. But we have a problem: who will evaluate? It is not a question of evaluating with the political 6, because the purely technical assessment made with a vote (whether 6, 5 or 4) is an assessment that all people who have been involved in training and teaching at any level know how to be partial anyway. Instead, we want to deal with what our kids really learned and what we call "diagnostic assessment." How have these six months been, beyond the speeches of the greats? What have they really learned, not only in terms of digital technicality or cultural deepening (because I suppose, for example, on Covid-19 they will know almost everything, even more than we do)? What have they learned about that much of science, that programming perhaps a little stiffer over the years, but that comes from the science and experience of the teachers, has foreseen for each individual class? I believe that this will be the first objective for teachers, without prejudice, either towards students or towards their families. However, they will have to ask themselves what these young people have learned and from this point they will have to start a programming, which cannot be done, as everyone knows, by the teachers in the very long meetings of the first days of September, in which they try to trace all the educational plans of the students, imagining to know the starting position. The act of great humility, which all teachers will have to do is to admit that they do not know how they will find their class, in terms of content, skills and relational and emotional skills. These months that we can also call from segregation to home, some trace will have left it, some difficulties will have created it and some opportunities will probably have also awakened it. But we must look at this universe, which are the classes, with a clear heart, with a lucid intelligence, with a willingness to start again with them. The next programming, that of the school year 2020-2021, will be done with students, not for students and much less on students. We have quoted many times that unfortunate phrase, which has been widely commented on by the newspapers and I do not intend to take it back, according to which the children are not funnels. Here you would not know the consistency of the funnel, nor what to put in it, but you simply have to look the kids in the eyes and rediscover the value of the gaze and listening. Much of the time that teachers will have to devote to children in the first days of school will be precisely for the pedagogy of listening, which of course is to be falsified to a didactic, that can also enhance the narrative approach and that is not attested only in the program, which is something still different from programming. We cannot even remotely imagine that the next school year will include a synthesis, an amalgamation of everything that has not been learned this year, plus what we should learn, because it is codified that we learn, in the following year. No. We need a culture of the valorization of what is essential, an ability to know how to leave what can be found by children in other ways, in other moments of their lives, to discover what they have ahead of them: I have little felt this passion for a different teaching, which - I insist - is not teaching at a distance, but is the power of the teaching of presence. And the power of the presence didactics is not only in the frontal didactics, but it is in the didactics that is built in terms of co-protagonism between teachers and students. In this respect, there will be another very important objective to bear in mind. Surely, in fact, we will find ourselves with new forms of disability and with the forms of disability that we know and that we know have been discriminated against by this model of distance teaching. I have not heard that the support teachers have engaged their energies in a small group work, done with children with particular difficulties. I didn't hear that there was that creativity in finding tailor-made formulas for the kid with disabilities. Then there will be boys who will probably have forgotten things they had learned and boys who will not have learned things they should have learned. Didactics, for these children, will require an investment in terms of time, tools, but above all in terms of support teachers. I believe that we have all received a number of e-mails from support teachers, who feel discriminated against in the way in which these new competitions were built. Correction factors will be necessary, because there is an urgent need for the support teacher not only not to feel like a B-series teacher, but to feel like the advanced A-series teacher. We know how much part of Montessoriana didactics has entered the toys, in the activities that take place not only in the schools that follow the Montessori model, but also in all schools for the age group between zero and six years; many of these things arise from an intuition of Montessori, of what was perhaps the first childhood neuropsychiatric, attentive to the difficulties of learning of children, careful to make sure that the boy discovered for evidence things that sometimes wanted to be taught by a demonstration process. Who knows the famous triangles of Montessori for the teaching of mathematics knows how in those instruments you see the rule, without the need for demonstration. So much so that the other teachers complain that this process, materializing the experience, making it so close to the reality of the child, in fact leaves behind the passage towards the abstraction procedures, which will arrive. But now we need a body of teachers to focus on learning difficulties. We also need to know that the excess of digitalization makes us lose sight of the reasoning skills, because we all end up moving towards a digital logic (yes or no), towards a logic that obliges us to find the solution at that time, in that way, but that overlooks that thought that we call divergent, that is the richness of the boy who displaces, who somehow discovers something different. I really wish there was a great deal of concentration on these two aspects: to understand which kids we are going to have in front of us and, together with them, to plan the following year. All the kids. If I did a small survey in this House, we would find that a large part of us came from peer schools. The boys of the peer schools are destined, together with the boys of the state school, to take on the shoulders of society. We cannot allow their schools not to be sanitized, we cannot allow there to be other difficulties. [[Applause.]] We rediscover the value of a unitary, two-legged school system, a state school and an equal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u243	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in these long months of lockdown - and especially today that we are re-launching a slow and uncertain normality, which is still subject to the development of the virus - the issue of education has been repeatedly the subject of public debate, representing a crucial issue, on which policy has been called upon to make very complex choices, close between the need, on the one hand, to guarantee the right to study, education and balanced growth, and the right of families to be guaranteed socio-educational support and, on the other hand, the need to protect the security of the community. We all know that the emergency has not yet ended and will have to pass other days or months before the scientific community and the institutions have a clearer picture of the course of the contagions and, therefore, the possible responses on ways, times and spaces of the new structures of educating. We know, however, that the issue of the right to study and education must necessarily be put at the heart of the government's political agenda, also with a view to growth and future developments. History shows that there are no other ways to grow and meet the debt challenge, which has grown enormously today, and the emerging economic emergency. For this reason, I believe that the institutions now have the imperative task of establishing ways and new tools to enable every child and child and every boy and girl to exercise their right to education in safe conditions from September onwards. It won't be easy, because talking about distance proximity almost looks like an oxymoron. But we are talking about a fundamental part of our country, which concerns 8 million students and a million teachers and school staff and involves millions of families. This means that it will serve not only to build a new way of doing school, but also to allocate necessary resources, using every fund available (including European funds), for a large national plan for the maintenance and adaptation of buildings, as has already been pointed out, and of the learning environments. But that is not enough; it is not just a matter of logistics. Educational training, relational didactics and extracurricular activities are also needed to combat school dispersal and educational poverty, which the Coronavirus crisis has aggravated and made even more evident. We need to invest in the skills of students so that they can face a changing world of work and where new technologies will have an increasing space. We also need an investment - I would like to stress this - on the emotional growth and skills needed, especially for the youngest, to face the lives of anxiety and fear that have characterized these months, helping them to regain confidence in tomorrow and rebuild relationships. These months of distance teaching - it has been emphasized also in the previous interventions - have unfortunately resulted in the loss of contacts with children at greater risk of dispersion. It is not by chance that a decisive point, also contained in the measure under consideration, is to take care of this request for social recovery of pupils with greater fragility and risk of marginality. It is more than ever necessary to reiterate the urgency to give school the importance it deserves on the government agenda and not to neglect the positive impact that a good education system can have on cognitive, human and relational development, as we said before, but also on the country's GDP, because the subsidies and assistance needed today cannot be the program of a country that has to build tomorrow. The complex genesis of this decree-law is known, the result of the emergency that has unfortunately changed our lives, the organizational and mental paradigms. There are many aspects to the measure, and I shall therefore confine myself to a few points. On the other hand, most aspects have already been mentioned. In the meantime, a positive figure should be highlighted: over the next three years, almost 70,000 teachers will be employed. The compromise reached in the majority is a result that holds together the need to recruit teachers on the basis of the evaluation of their preparation, taking account of qualifications, skills and experience. The health emergency that we are facing would not have allowed a competition to be held in safety, the solution identified goes in the direction of avoiding therefore a contest-lottery for more in full emergency. It is therefore right to review that scheme. Allow me, however, to regret the fact that the previous Government has unfortunately deleted the FIT, i.e. the system of initial training and internship of teachers that would have solved in an orderly and logical way, respecting histories and competences, the problem of the endemic historical precariousness that afflicts this country. I would also like to mention the equals, which has been a subject addressed in many speeches and which already in this decree-law sees a reference to recruitment for municipal children's schools. Allow me to point out the commitment made by the Government to increase, already in the next decree relaunch, the resources available to them and that I am sure the work of the parliamentarians will be able to increase further. Equal schools are an essential part of our education system and must be protected because they increase supply and guarantee a fundamental democratic principle, which is that of educational freedom. 20.10 (Follow IORI). As far as maturity is concerned, I think we must do everything possible to ensure that the 500,000 Italian students carry out such an important examination for their lives, guaranteeing safety conditions. To each of them, here, I would like to express a special wish and deep thanks to the teachers who have accompanied them and accompany them in this maturity so different from the others. On the subject of student evaluation, I also consider it particularly important that the amendment, introduced in the Commission by an amendment of the Democratic Party, which provides that the final evaluation of primary school pupils' learnings is expressed through a summary judgment and not a numerical vote, meaning that every child, every child is a person within the school institution, with unique and specific characteristics, with a history in itself and that cannot be traced back to a number. Therefore, this decree-law, after the explosion of the pandemic, seeks answers to the most complex and important challenge that, the start of the school year and that of the investment plan to relaunch the school, the knowledge, the learning for the new generations. To them we owe answers and the construction of a horizon of meaning perspectives. The problem is not only whether and when to open schools, but the problem is how. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who linked his name to the New Deal, thanks to which America managed to overcome the Great Depression of the Thirties, uttered a phrase that can be our political commitment today: The school must be the last expenditure on which America is prepared to economize. Well, that must also be the case for Italy. Now that we roll up our sleeves to get out of the most serious crisis since the post-war period, we need to know not only that we will not have to save money on the school, but that we need the biggest investment plan planned, because only then can we have the right care for the most important public good in the country. The recession in fact will increase educational poverty and inequalities, widening the furrow, already deep, that separates those who are inside and those who are out of the system. It is the policy that will have to take responsibility to recover the children at risk of educational dispersion; this is a profoundly political choice, because only in this way will we save the future of these children and, together, the future of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u245	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretaries, I would also like to address the Minister, but with great regret I see that he is absent. Today, 27 May, twelve days after the official conclusion of the school year 2019-2020, we finally arrived at the general discussion of a decree-law that aimed to outline the conclusion of a school year marked by an emergency to which no one could escape, not even the education sector unfortunately. When I say that this decree-law had to outline how to conclude the current school cycle, I mean that, a few days after the end of it, the conversion into law of this decree-law seems to me a real mockery towards students and their families, teachers, school leaders and those involved in the world of school. If anyone in this House is convinced otherwise, I will demonstrate why. But let's go with order. With the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 8 March last, the educational services and educational activities of every order and grade were suspended. I remember very well that the decision had been announced a few days earlier, with a press conference at which the Minister had presided together with the President of the Council. Also in those days, if I remember correctly on March 4, we members of the Senate Education Commission, together with your colleagues in the House, had a hearing with you in Montecitorio, during which you showed us the lines you intended to follow for your Dicastery; only in the end did you mention the decision announced the evening before the closing of schools of every order and grade. These are the Minister's words, which I quote: I add only one thing related to the tsunami that is overwhelming Italy at this time in relation to the coronavirus. Most likely you have heard that there will be an educational suspension in all schools, excluding the red zone, because in the red zone the schools are just closed. Outside the red zone there is a suspension of the teaching activities until March 15, made necessary to delay the infection. We must safeguard the national health system and therefore, in agreement with the Technical and Scientific Committee and with a decision we have taken in the Council of Ministers, the schools will suspend their teaching until 15 March. I wanted to share this decision with you. These were the concluding words of the hearing we had with the Minister on 4 March. This said the Minister, unleashing a real tsunami among the parliamentarians of the joint Senate and Chamber Education Commissions; closing naturally extended, as well expected and was known. On that occasion, many of us reproached her for the fact that this should have been the main topic of the hearing. Already then the Minister should have been ready to think and think about how to conclude the school year and give a precise address; perhaps he should have even been ready with a decree containing the urgent measures for the regular conclusion and the orderly start of the school year and for the conduct of the state exams, also and above all the proclamation of the state of emergency, dated 31 January, which you as Minister well knew. [[Applause]] No, he didn't. He only said a few words about closing schools that night. We had to wait for more than a month (April 8) to give birth to a half resolution decree of nothing. It didn't solve anything because, at a time when students, families and teachers would need some certainty, this decree brought even more uncertainty. A decree is a choice by which you give directions; it is a line to follow; it is a measure by which a minister makes decisions for citizens by putting himself at their service and trying to solve a problem that in this case is called school, teaching, education and we can continue with all the variations that we want. Instead, in this decree the Minister put two options. I am referring to the possibility, then blurred, of starting school again before 18 May or not. It's okay that the Minister likes quizzes, but putting two different possibilities in a decree seems excessive. ( [[Applause]] ). This dual possibility has only created confusion: it has left students, families, teachers and school leaders in uncertainty for weeks who did not know whether to prepare the classes and the organization of the institutions for a possible return, as well as having the task of having to prepare and manage in the best way the teaching at a distance with the teachers and, of course, the parents. The uncertainty lasted until the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, dated 26 April, with which the closure of school structures was definitively established until September. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers removed the Minister from the embarrassment of returning to his steps and having to correct his decree. I wonder: if our students had really returned to school by May 18, had the Minister considered whether our schools were really ready and equipped for this eventuality? I don't think so, because it's still the case today. Apart from the indications of the Technical and Scientific Committee, the Minister, given the evolution of the epidemic, should have made a political decision immediately with courage and concentrate on a single decision in order to have children and teachers conclude the school year dignifiedly and without uncertainty. This is not the only mistake of this decree-law. The 391 amendments and the 23 agendas initially made to it by both us minority senators and by the majority senators say a lot and impose a reflection, because this decree is just the Minister's. In fact, in the 63 hearings we held in the Commission it seemed to us that the Minister had not spoken to anyone and had not spoken to anyone. His trusted squires in the Commission would have demanded that we in the minority accept this decree-law lightly in the name of urgency and necessity after the Minister had delayed issuing it. Finally, it has been difficult to accept our request, endorsed - to be honest - even by a majority (which is not the one to which the Minister belongs), to hold the hearings of the many applicants. This request was, moreover, more than legitimate. I would like to point out that there has been nothing instrumental in all this by the Lega Group because we have held the 63 hearings in two days by granting five minutes to each audition, which is linked in videoconference with the Commission. I repeat: there has been no exploitation, but only the will to listen to the voice of those directly concerned to make reasonable and common sense amending proposals to the decree, to respond to the real needs that the school has at this time. We have listened to students, teachers and representatives of trade unions, school leaders and representatives of family committees. We've all listened. Who did the Minister listen to? Well, it seems to us that he hasn't listened to anyone and that he doesn't take advice from anyone. Despite his old proclamations of participatory democracy and the announced intentions of not wanting to leave anyone behind, in this decree-law instead he left many behind, even coming to discriminate against a good number of students, the privatists, forgetting then completely also the world that revolves around the school, those who work in the canteens and those who drive the school buses. We, however, despite the many nominative defects that you like to attribute to us, have all listened, we have read hundreds of e-mails and requests, in many cases of supplications, such as those of the private students who will have to wait September to give the exam of maturity, risking not being able to carry out the tests for admission to the university. Everyone with his stories and his sacrifices, like the many precarious people who confided in the Minister, before he became so, but who now very clearly write that they no longer feel represented by her. Is that how the Minister thought he would leave no one behind? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Saponara. SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). I need two more minutes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's do one and a half. SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). In addition to the courage to make a clear decision, in this decree-law the Minister should also have been accompanied by a good dose of listening and humility, because the real leaders are the ones who listen and put themselves at the service of others. Being in charge of a ministry like education is a very important thing. Since I don't have much time, I'm holding my speech. Tomorrow we go to approve or disapprove - as we prefer - of a decree-law that needs dozens of corrections and that, despite everything, leaves unsolved numerous problems relating to the conclusion of this school year, at the beginning of the next year and the ways in which the supplements will be assigned to the teachers. In short, there are still so many uncertainties, just when we all need firm points. I do not know whether the Minister is fully aware of the honour he, like all of us, has of being part of this Parliament and of being there, because she was elected and was chosen by the citizens. It is a great honour, however, that requires us to be at the service of those who elected us: it is to them that we must primarily respond and, if we do not do so today, we will have to do so later, because there is always a time when we have to deal with our consciences and with those who have put their trust in us. It does not seem to me that this decree-law responds to this logic and this is serious, because it also involves citizens who are not yet old to express a vote and a preference, which is why this decree-law should have taken on a particular significance. This particular meaning translates into an example for those who have to make the choices of adults completely, but who are looking at us and will suffer the consequences of this school year. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Minister, as far as we in the League Group are concerned, receives a serious insufficiency for his first decree, for the corrections in blue and red. The quiz didn't reward her. We also advise you to go to class and we tell you very clearly that with this decree-law you have lost a great opportunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u247	Senator Saponara, I did not want to interrupt you, but I have an obligation to stress, so to speak, also for the future, the inability to define Parliament's representatives as squires of any Minister. [[Applause.]] I have not interrupted it, but I am obliged to specify it, because of the dignity of this House: I would - and of course I will - do so with anyone who speaks from the senator's benches. [[Comments.]] He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u248	Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, my fellow senators, honestly we do not know where to start to sequence the elements that will presumably go to outline the one that will go to history like a Caporetto of the Italian public school, and to the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars I say that when we talk about public school we also mean equal school; someone pretends not to know, someone I have the impression that he does not really know. I would also like to reassure Undersecretary Malpezzi by saying that I will avoid doing the chronicle of what we have seen (that you humans cannot even imagine) in these last days and in these last nights of the works of the 7th Commission of this branch of Parliament: an open and no neighborhood conflict within the majority, even within the majority parties, a lively stream of amendments then withdrawn, or set aside, or changed and upset (in the sense that they became the opposite of what they were up to a moment earlier), quarrels, tensions, conflicts; all in order not to take on the needs of Italian students and possibly their families, but to try to capture the consent of some of the many categories of which the world of school is composed. But I'm afraid you didn't succeed, because if you had the goal of the students more than the teachers you might have been able to please the teachers. In this way I have the impression that so much has been the contradiction of government action on this issue, clearly so delicate, that it will hardly be able to return to it from an electoral point of view. I will therefore start by noting what has been done or what has not been done for students, for children attending our schools. Meanwhile, this whole story began with a great uncertainty, the one about the closure: it closes, it does not close, as it closes, when it closes. It closed suddenly; suddenly the closing of the schools was communicated, literally from evening to morning, thus putting the families in a position not to know how to provide for their daily lives. The same uncertainty is a damage, it causes damage and, especially in such a fragile age as the one we live in, it characterizes the great question of when and how the school will open. Some countries close to us are organizing; some have already opened up, others are thinking about whether and how to open. I am referring to France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark, the Netherlands and Switzerland. There are many of them, ladies and gentlemen, and they have not had a submissive, passive attitude to what is obviously a huge public health problem, namely the pandemic of Covid-19. We, on the other hand, have closed ourselves, we have closed schools and we do not give any indication, we do not venture any hypothesis on how to possibly reopen them. We know that in the second half of September there will be regional and municipal elections, recklessly combined with the constitutional referendum, because anticipating that electoral date as much as possible is clearly in the interests of the majority parties, but we do not know whether and when the schools will reopen. Nothing has been done for the 300,000 disabled students who have been abandoned to themselves; nothing has been done to guarantee assistance to those who need to be followed and attend the world of school; nothing has actually been done to fill that immense lack of training that unfortunately I believe will characterize this generation, since the problem continues and the solutions are not visible. The distance learning, for Christ's sake, was an emerging solution, but it did not go as told us by Minister Azzollina. I hope that it is not true what was shown to us by the Citizenship Report, so 52 percent of the students had access to distance learning, because that means 48 percent did not have access to it. If that were the case, it would be a catastrophe and not just an obvious and great problem. I would like to warn this House of Parliament about this, although I was hoping in the presence of the Minister; I hope that someone will report, in any case I have put a parliamentary question on this matter, which I hope will have a clear answer from the Minister. I have read in recent days an interview of Professor Giulio Ceppi, an esteemed architect, professor of the Politecnico di Milano, who is part of the scientific committee established at the Ministry of Education and therefore does not speak at random, what he says is imagined to be part of a common vision of that scientific committee and that Ministry. He candidly stated that everything is happening in terms of digitalization, lack of physical presence of students in schools and classes, will be the norm for the future. It is not as I thought, as we believed, an emergency, a way to overcome a huge problem dignifiedly: it is a goal. He's talking about hybrid school. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone intends to distort the sense of education and eliminate the physical place of the school, consider it a dishonor, please stop, at least we speak and at least try to prevent others from speaking in the place of Parliament on such a sensitive subject. If the Minister has any ideas about this, say so, but keep quiet who speaks for you in this case. We have tabled many amendments, almost all of them rejected us, although I must say the gesture was nice, pretty. We appreciated the gesture of meeting and talking: the Undersecretaries and the technicians were present to the education, exquisite people and very competent. We certainly learned something. The idea was: We are in a state of such political debauchery that, out of decency, we realize that you could legitimately occupy the House of the Commission and plant an infinite amount of money; we appreciate the fact that, out of a civic sense and a sense of national responsibility, all of us, despite being in opposition, have put ourselves on the back, do not do so and therefore we are informally talking about the amendments. All right, we appreciate the gesture. Nice gesture but no results, unfortunately almost null even if the undersecretary shakes his head. I have made a statistical observation, but then I will be precise: 98% of our amendments have been rejected, someone has been turned into an agenda, which is, as it were, a pat on the shoulders, someone has been accepted, certainly not the most important. Among those rejected are all the amendments we have tabled in the field of equal schools. I mean, frankly, colleagues, the school is one, the school system is one. I understand that someone within this majority has an ideological fury that everything that is private is bad, everything that is not public and managed by the public is bad and must be swept away. It's a wrong idea, it's an out-of-time idea, which clashes with the evidence of reality. It is an idea that clashes with constitutional principles that guarantee educational freedom and clashes with a law that in 2000 - now exactly twenty years ago - established that the Italian school is one and within that only Italian school there are also in full capacity peers. Do not do it because you believe it, do it by political intelligence, do it for economic and financial calculation, take charge of the public budget. Each Italian student costs an average of 6,000 euros to the State. For each student of the paritarian schools the State pours to various title about 750 euros. There is a difference of 5,250 euros. For every student who will move from peer schools to state school, the State will have to spend 5,250 euros. If it is true what is said, that is, what is estimated, and that unfortunately it is reasonable that it is true, that the economic crisis will cause thousands of families to withdraw their children from peer schools in order to enroll them in state schools in order to avoid paying the tuition, this means billions more to the State and it also means to collapse a system already close to collapse. We're talking about chicken classes, not by chance. The 173 euros that were intended for peer schools are frankly laughing; it's little more than what was intended for the purchase of electric scooters, which I understand are produced in China, so they may have some appeal for some of you, but I wouldn't put electric scooters on the same level as the fate of 866,000 peer school students. [[Applause.]] That's why I think it's correct, it's not an exaggerated polemic to talk about a Caporetto; it's the Caporetto of the school, it's the Caporetto of politics more generally. It is certainly the Caporetto of Minister Lucia Azzolina, who has been suborned, bypassed, bypassed. At some point it was realized that it lacks those basic qualities that are the essence of politics: the ability to mediate. Of this attempt at mediation the Prime Minister Conte has arrogated himself with frankly questionable results, but in fact she has been exauthored. There are other illustrious examples within the Movimento 5 Stars of politically incapable ministers, to use an expression of Benedetto Croce; therefore I do not believe that this will have an impact on his career. I am afraid, unfortunately, that this will have an impact on the school career of our children, our grandchildren and what the ruling class of tomorrow will be: an impact on the future of the nation. And that's why I don't think talking about a Caporetto is too much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u249	Senator Auddino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u250	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about school, we ask ourselves the fundamental questions: what is the school we want to defend? What do teachers want? Have we understood what it means to do school in the third millennium? What do families expect from us? And have we stressed enough that education is the only real guarantee of freedom? Colleagues, it's all from school. All of us have had experience in the school, who as students, who as parents and someone - like those who speak to you - as teachers. The school has faced three difficult months with great ability to adapt. Distance learning can never replace that in presence, but it has allowed to guarantee the right to study provided for and enshrined in the Constitution in this unprecedented period of crisis. [[Applause]] I would remind the opposition, or at least the one who has remained in this Chamber. Thanks to our efforts we have managed to save the school year for students of every order and grade. The second-degree high-school debt mechanism has been frozen for this year. We have done this too. In September it will be possible to recover the learning; what has not been learned can be recovered at the beginning of next year. You couldn't make a better choice. But we have not finished: only for this school year, for admission to maturity some valid admission criteria are exempted until last year and will obviously be valid again from next year. What more did we have to do? In recent years public school has often lacked classrooms (it is true) and teachers have often been lacking (sure), but it is not possible to put on the shoulders of this government what has not been done in recent decades. [[Applause]] Do you know why? I say this as a teacher: the school has never been a serious investment in the programs of past governments, just as health care has not been, always the subject of indiscriminate cuts, as if there should never have been a tomorrow to invest in health and education. This is the government that invests - indeed - in health and education. The emergency of the Covid now offers us all a further reason for fundamental reflection on health and school. Let us not miss this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen: expenditure on health and school should then be freed from budgetary constraints forever. We all work for this European objective, let us work together. We will have a better Europe and a better Italy. We'll have everything to gain. In addition, health and education return to centralized management by their respective ministries: we must also open a national debate on this. It is a matter of national equity, because this is what we are all now called to represent, majority and opposition. Not only an assembly of politicians elected to a legislative function, but men and women, chosen by other men and women of our beloved country, who have the duty to intervene with promptness and commitment to give the answers that citizens have been expecting for too long, for the common good. And this is what the Government is doing, even with this decree-law, more urgent than ever in its literal meaning, thanks to measures indispensable for the regular conclusion of a school year among the most difficult since the post-war period, perhaps the most difficult. Let's think for a moment about how the teaching class has been trained and recruited in the last twenty years, between maxiconcorsi, qualifying courses, specialization schools and the inclusion in a block of unqualified teachers. What has been lacking at the Italian school, not only in my opinion, but in many people's opinion, is a shared process for proper teaching training and to support the defence of education without whether or not. Our children's school cannot be and will never be a social shock absorber. We cannot talk about the teaching profession as if it were a job like everyone else. No. When we talk about the recruitment and training of teachers, we must be much more careful, all of us. The responsibility for the training of our children should make us jump out of the chair because of the seriousness of the commitment that this entails. This, too many times, has not happened in the past. The government has now made a great deal of effort on this front. We want to combat precariousness, yes, but we want to do so through recruitment arrangements that guarantee access to education on the ground. Einstein said: It is the supreme art of the teacher, awakening the joy of creativity and knowledge. I also quote Calamandrei, as someone from the League did just now, but recalling another sentence, more beautiful and more upbuilding for me. He said that school is a constitutional body, a vital organ of democracy as we see it, like Parliament, the Presidency of the Republic, the judiciary. [[Applause.]] To teach the students of our schools the difference between reading and studying, between knowing and knowing how to do, as indicated by our dear Enrico Fermi. Our kids need to acquire a method of learning, and we need a school that will be the engine of that social elevator that will allow them to redeem their lives. [[Applause]] , as, moreover, it was already in the years of reconstruction, after the war. We need to support the sociality and maturity of our children; we need a school that does not fit the fashions of the moment, but that dictates the rules without suffering them, recovering the profound meaning of teaching. We need a school that is aware of the fundamental role of properly trained teachers. The school as the central organ of democracy, because it is functional to the formation of its ruling class, as dictated by the Charter in Articles 33 and 34. It will be up to us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and the opposition, to ensure that this is achieved. The whole of Parliament will have to take note of this in the future: a cultural change, rather than a political change. We know how to do this: politics takes care of this. I put my will in it; it is enough to really want it. [[Applause.]] If we were even more, I suppose I would have received more applause! We must go in the direction of selective and inclusive school, and the two things, ladies and gentlemen, are not contradictory. A rigorous school is certainly selective, but it is certainly not a classist. The school is a central issue, it must be for this government, for Parliament and for future governments. It must be for the whole country, always. And when I say this, I think about programs, teaching, method, not just school organization. With the unacceptable fratricidal war between bodies, between government and regions, between regions and mayors, which we have all lived in these days, the country will certainly not get out of this emergency first. We will all come out of this if we stick together with that unity of intent that will make us true statesmen politicians. Otherwise, each with his own flag, each with his own small personal battle and his own distinctions, we all risk sinking miserably. That is why, Mr President, we are all defending, with genuine conviction, the actions to defend the school. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, men and women who represent the Italian people here in this branch of Parliament at this serious time, it is necessary to support the efforts that the Government, and I would say the whole country, is making in the name of the interest of the school that we all share, aware, as we are, that in order to save the nation of which we are all representatives - and I would say servants - there is a need for the effort and example of all. The Latins admonished us on this: verba docent, exempla trahunt. The great physicist, Nobel laureate for physics, and extraordinary teacher Richard Feynman, had to say that the best teaching is what is realized in the direct relationship between a good student and an excellent teacher, that happy situation in which the student discusses ideas, reflects on things and talks about them. Here, we should make sure that all this happens in our schools, always, between teachers and learners: discussing ideas, thinking about things and talking about things together. I think our children will be grateful. Thank you all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u251	The general debate is closed. I shall refer you to another session following the examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u252	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-222.ana.u253	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 28 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.50 p.m.
