ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalisation will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Ruotolo has the right to explain the question 3-01819 on the circumstances of the death of compatriot Mario Carmine Paciolla in Colombia, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u4	Mr President, as the Minister knows, one of our fellow citizens, Mario Carmine Paciolla, was found lifeless in Colombia, a country where he was on behalf of the United Nations. In expressing our condolences to the family, we ask the Government to take all necessary steps to shed light, to know the truth about this boy's death. I ask you, Minister, to demand - yes, that is the right word - from the United Nations the maximum cooperation with the Italian authorities and with the lawyers of the family of Mario Carmine Paciolla. As far as I am aware, there is a deafening silence on the part of those responsible for the UN. On July 15, a week ago, Mario Carmine Paciolla, a 33-year-old Neapolitan, was found lifeless at his home in San Vicente del Caguán, a locality 650 kilometres from Bogota. The compatriot was a UN co-operative and had been engaged for two years with the United Nations in a project that aimed to convert former fighters to work in the camps and carried out monitoring for the respect of the peace agreements between the Colombian Government and the FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia). From what is learned from the local press, the Colombian authorities at first spoke of suicide, a circumstance that has not been reflected, denied by the testimonies of cooperative organizations in Colombia and by the young man's own family. On the corpse of Mario Carmine Paciolla, as reported by the organs and the press agencies, there would be evident signs of violence, in particular cuts caused by knives or sharp blades, which have not been found at home. We know that the autopsy was carried out in Colombia, which we understand has been attended by a doctor indicated by the United Nations. In the autopsy, however, the expert of part of the Paciolla family could not participate. On July 11, during a phone call between Mario - the Neapolitan boy - and his mother, he had expressed some concern about some things that happened, something strange to him, for a trouble that was not better specified, and on July 20 he would have wanted to return to Italy. Mr. Minister, Naples is mobilized to know the truth about this story: just think that on the balconies of the town hall there is a banner and that on the platform "Change.org" more than 55,000 people, in a few hours, have signed a petition. The public's attention is all about knowing the truth. Then I ask you, as the competent Minister, what the Government intends to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u5	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u6	Mr President, senators and senators, compatriot Carmine Mario Paciolla, as Senator Ruotolo recalls, was found dead on 15 July in his home in San Vincenzo del Caguán in Colombia. There he worked since 20 August 2018 as a UN volunteer in the verification mission called to monitor the implementation of the 2016 peace agreement between the Government and the FARC, the guerrillas of the revolutionary armed forces of Colombia. From the very beginning we have followed this painful affair with the utmost attention. Our embassy in Bogota maintains constant contact with the Colombian authorities and with the family members of the compatriot, to whom it is giving every possible assistance, and of course Farnesina encourages the UN to do its utmost in this regard. The local police investigation to clarify the causes of death is ongoing. The Colombian authorities have assured us that the case, of which we immediately emphasized the highest importance, is also considered by them to be of absolute priority and is followed to the highest level directly by the Attorney General of the Nation and his deputy. The Colombians have also appointed a specialized magistrate to treat these investigations with the use of experienced investigators and a special forensic team sent on site by Bogota to arrive as soon as possible at the truth about what happened. The autopsy was carried out on 17 July and we are waiting for the results in the next few days. The embassy has activated itself to carry out all the necessary practices for the repatriation of the corpse of the young compatriot, who will arrive here tomorrow in Italy. I assure the utmost commitment of the Farnesina and my staff to follow this tragic story, which involved our brilliant young man, engaged in a very delicate mission. Its premature disappearance rightly arouses the attention of the public and of this Parliament. I would like to say that we are close to your family at this sad time and will spare no effort until full light is shed on what has happened to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u7	I give the floor to Senator Rotolo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u8	Minister, I really must thank you because you have given a real answer and so we are all convinced that you and the entire Government will follow this story, whose contours are still too dark, having just happened. We therefore need to have guarantees that our Government and our authorities will do everything that needs to be done. You just said that tomorrow the body will arrive, so surely the Roman judiciary will carry out all the institutional tasks due, thus proceeding to a new autopsy. We need to let the Paciolla family and their lawyers know every step of this investigation. In conclusion, I ask only one question: if he had committed suicide, what sense would he have had to call his mother, who did not hear often, and prepare for the return journey? That's why we have to escape any doubt and that's why we will be careful and ready to mobilize at all times. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u9	Senator Ferrara has the right to explain the question 3-01805 on the follow-up of the case of Mario Carmine Paciolla, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u10	Mr President, kind Minister, first of all I would like to renew our deepest condolences to the family of the cooperative Mario Paciolla, who died in Colombia a few days ago. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister, for the speed with which you have come to report here in the Senate on this sad affair. Only on Tuesday in this House did I ask for your intervention to inform Parliament, announcing this question. His presence today testifies to the attention and sensitivity of his Ministry towards our Italian citizens abroad. Sadly, this sad story has a lot of ambiguity. Let me remind you that Paciolla was part of the UN mission to monitor the peace agreement between FARC and the Colombian Government and our co-operative was in a particularly dangerous area of the country. A few days before his death he had manifested to his family and friends fears for his life, so much so that he had purchased a plane ticket for July 20: Mario's intention was to return home. It is therefore questionable whether an experienced cooperative decides to commit suicide just a few days before returning to Italy and for no apparent reason. Apparently, according to some local media reports, stab wounds have been reported on Mario's body. Obviously it is necessary to wait for the official results of the autopsy to know with certainty the real reason for the death, but I repeat that there are still shadows to shed light on. Minister, since the signing of the peace agreement between FARC and the Colombian Government to date there have been almost a thousand deaths: human rights activists, indigenous people, peasants and former FARC militiamen who had been reintegrated into the Colombian social fabric, a real massacre on which the international community, usually very attentive to human rights in the area, has not spent a word. These reasons, Minister, lead me to ask you a few more specific questions: where are the investigations? Is there full cooperation on the part of the United Nations and the Colombian authorities? What activities have been undertaken to facilitate the return of the body to Italy and what initiatives has it taken to promote the most fruitful collaboration between the Italian and Colombian judicial authorities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u11	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Ferrara for this question, which is further evidence of how Parliament intends to stress the importance and urgency of clarifying the circumstances of the tragic end of the young volunteer, the United Nations Carmine Mario Paciolla, and this is of course also the objective of the Government. We have given priority to this sad affair, which I personally follow by being constantly updated on its developments. Our embassy in Bogota is in contact with both the Paciolla family, which is providing maximum assistance, as well as the Colombian authorities and the investigators, under the guidance of the Attorney General of that country. The investigations are carried out with the help of a magistrate specialized in this type of crime and a team of forensic technicians. Causes of death are still unclear. We are waiting for the results of the two autopsies, both that carried out by the Colombian authority and that which will be carried out at the disposition of the Italian judicial authority. Of course, all the testimonies will also be crucial. The United Nations mission in which Carmine Mario worked aims to verify the reintegration of former FARC guerrillas into Colombia's political, economic and social life, as well as the guarantees of integration, security and protection for their families and communities involved. Our representation at the United Nations in New York took a step with the head of the department responsible for the UN verification mission in Colombia. We have stressed the firm expectation of a continuous and full collaboration on the part of the mission with our embassy in Bogota and we have been confirmed that an internal investigation has been launched, which sees for the time being used investigative capabilities of the same UN mission. We have asked and obtained that it be conducted quickly and thoroughly. The results will be promptly shared with our embassy in Bogota and with the representation in New York. So, to sum up, three lines of inquiry will be essential: the Colombian one, the United Nations one and the Italian judiciary one. Farnesina's work will be to ensure maximum coordination between the activities of the authorities involved and on this I assure you of the maximum timeliness and commitment. I inform you, moreover, that I intend to meet the Paciolla family as soon as possible to express personally the closeness of the Italian State; closeness that will continue without interruption, even far from the spotlight, until all the contours of the death of Carmine Mario Paciolla, our citizen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u13	Senator Ferrara has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u14	Mr Di Maio, thank you for your reply. I think you're showing a commendable concern for this sad case here today. I hope that Mario's relatives and friends, even in pain, can be reassured by the closeness of the institutions that you and we all represent. In this complex time Italian foreign policy, perhaps as few times in republican history, is showing great attention to the many Italians present in every continent. I am thinking of the determination and efficiency that you demonstrated during the Covid emergency, whether you are committed to finding the indispensable medical material or assisting the many fellow countrymen blocked in many countries. Without the incessant work of the men and women of the Farnesina, thousands and thousands of compatriots could not have returned to their homeland. [[Applause.]] Finally, Minister, remembering that if our country is so admired and considered it is also for the work of our co-workers, who work courageously in the refugee camps alongside those who suffer, in the interposition in areas of conflict, in the constant search for dialogue and peace, even at the cost of their lives. To them go all our recognition and gratitude, aware that, if Italy is a particularly beloved country, it is also by virtue of their high ideals of justice of which we are particularly proud. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u15	Senator La Russa has the right to explain the question 3-01814 on the road and motorway traffic situation in Liguria, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u16	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for being here because the question that we, as the Brothers of Italy, have chosen to present today is dramatic. An entire Region, the Liguria, is truly isolated and has become an island: there is no longer the possibility of a road traffic that even remotely has the requirement of normality. For two years, as everyone knows, the Morandi bridge has collapsed; After that there was a problem and I have to say that the Councillor Balleari and the Giunta di Genova had partially fixed it, with a road made in just two months. Now, however, the situation of the motorways has become dramatic: there is a continuous interruption, one travels to a single lane with miles tails and impossible journey times. As if that were not enough, the situation has also been aggravated because work is not done on the only alternative road, the Aurelia road, where small landslides have not been repaired for months and other very slow works in progress remain to block or to make it very difficult even the circulation. One of the causes of this situation, if not the main one, is that having been initiated by the highway society, with all the defects it entails, the examination and the control of all the tunnels (as it had been requested in winter) only on a very near date (it seems to me in May this year), the government said that it was doing a wrong job, that it would have to be done according to a circular of 1957 (so far never applied) and that therefore it would have to be done again. They then began to redo everything, pointing at the same time to the prosecutor's responsibility (which she immediately clarified was not hers). I wonder what kind of real, ready, real and immediate intervention you have in mind to save, during the tourist season in particular, Liguria and the whole North West from this dramatic situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u17	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u18	Mr President, the agreements governing the motorway concessionaries provide for operators to maintain the functionality of the infrastructure through the timely maintenance and repair of the infrastructure. The ordinary and extraordinary maintenance operations are identified through periodic checks of the state of functionality of the infrastructures, to be carried out according to the procedures referred to in the circular of the Ministry of Public Works n. 6736 of 19 July 1967, fully effective and binding for all the concessionaires. In particular, the dealer must inspect, during his normal daily activity, the artifacts and works of art, through an examination of the surface of the visible structures (piles, pillars, columns, arches, etc.), tending to ascertain every new fact and the occurrence of any external anomalies. Such inspection shall, in any event, be carried out at least quarterly and by the preparation of a report containing the main data and findings of the verifications. In addition, the concessionaire must carry out, on an annual basis, a general and complete examination of the most important products, including by means of tests and inspections. As regards the Ligurian road system, based mainly on the motorway network, in January last year Aspi submitted, at the request of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, a programme of inspections of existing tunnels along the whole route managed by it to be implemented during the year 2020. It was immediately reported and repeated several times in writing to the company Aspi that the content of the inspection programme submitted was to be regarded as complementary and not already a substitute for the activities which it was required to carry out under the 1967 circular on road infrastructure safety. Aspi then reprogrammed the activities, including the dismantling of the elements contained in the tunnels, the so-called ondulines. This activity has determined the temporary closure of tunnels for the carrying out of repairs. In order to reduce the inconveniences for the users deriving from the inspection activity, the Ministry immediately started constant interlocations in order to identify, also in agreement with the Liguria Region and the local authorities, who have always participated and attended the technical tables, the modalities for the completion of the same. The circular of 7 July also provided for the provision of up-to-date information on inspections and provided for the possibility of setting up, by the prefected authority, a special coordination table for the monitoring of critical factors resulting from the carrying out of inspections and for the identification of all the measures necessary to overcome them. By July 28th, the checks and interventions will be completed and normal road conditions restored. I confirm, Senator La Russa, that there have been very serious inconveniences for the users and long waits to make the trips on the Ligurian highway network. However, I do not believe that, even after recent events, the conviction that the safety of infrastructure, given the serious conditions of tunnels in Liguria, is an essential prerequisite for ensuring the effectiveness of the constitutional right to mobility can be questioned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u19	I give the floor to Senator La Russa to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u20	Mr President, the right to security certainly comes ahead of everything, but perhaps it would have been good for the Ministry not to wait eight months to inform, on 20 May, that the work that was taking place since the winter of 2019 was, according to the Ministry, different from those prescribed. Perhaps it will be up to the Public Prosecutor of Genoa, where a file was opened following the exposition of the president of the Region Toti, to verify what were the failures of the company Autostrade and the Government. What is certain is that you have given me a series of answers that justify the current situation, saying that there are checks, meetings and interlocutions, but you have given me no hope that this weekend or the next one will change the situation. The Liguria is really narrow in a grip of highway and road obstacles. He didn't tell me about the situation of Aurelia, also semi-impracticable, which causes damage not only to Liguria and the tourist season. But do you know that the port of Genoa serves all the northern part of Italy? It is an incalculable damage in which the palliation of responsibility between the company Autostrade and the Ministry leaves us bewildered, as disconcerting is the absence of a serious prospect of remedying this disaster that you have brought about. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u21	Senator Grimani has the right to explain the question 3-01813 on the reduction of motorway charges, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u22	Mr President, I thank the Minister for being here. Among the negative consequences deriving from the dramatic pandemic from Covid-19 emerges predominantly the reduction of consumption and also the lesser propensity, of course, by citizens to go on vacation. This is due to the contraction of incomes, to the objective economic difficulties of the country and also, of course, to the restrictions that have mainly concerned relations with other nations and, therefore, with regard to intercontinental travel, the restrictions that have caused the stop to travel during this period. According to studies and data provided by Codacons, one in two Italians will cut out spaces for holidays. These spaces will be oriented mainly to travel within our country; it is estimated, precisely, that the majority of citizens who move will do so within the country. Among other things as a state also manifested by some associations, including ANIASA (National Association of Car Hire Industry and Automotive Services), and other companies, such as Bain & Company, most of the travel will take place through the use of the car and, very often, also through the rental. We therefore consider this issue important. It is certain that the possibility of the resumption of the movements will be an event that we must accompany. It should be borne in mind that, with regard to the motorway toll system, last year, the Transport Regulatory Authority issued resolutions on the adoption of a new charging model, using the price cap method (a method which should link the definition of the tariff to the quality of service in a narrower way). It should also be considered that the adoption of this model is subject to the approval of economic and financial plans, which have been moved by the Ministry, with regard to transposition, on more advanced dates (for most concessionaires the term is shifted from 30 March to 20 May; in the case of the company Autostrade for Italy, obviously for the issues we know well, the term had been moved to 23 July). It should also be noted that it is important to establish motorway tolls as soon as possible to encourage citizens and businesses to travel. All this has been said, we ask the Minister to know what are the guidelines on these issues described in the premise and if he does not think it appropriate to adopt as soon as possible all the initiatives of his competence to reduce the motorway charges, in order to favor the citizens with regard to mobility, aimed not only at holidays but also and especially at the reunion with many relatives (since, precisely, lockdown has caused more difficulties in this respect), as well as to facilitate the flow of tourism, which is resumed and which must be supported in our country, also in order to favor the companies active in this field. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u23	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u24	Mr President, the conventional acts of motorway concessions provide for a five-year update of the economic and financial plans, so-called PEFs. At each update, the investment plan shall be adjusted, technical parameters reprogrammed and future tariff levels determined. By Decree-Law No 109 of 2018 the application of the new tariff regime of the Transport Regulatory Authority, which is based on the principle of price cap and which revolutionises the tariff models previously applied for motorway concessions, was envisaged. In addition, in accordance with the new framework, concessionaires were asked to prepare PEFs in accordance with the new tariff rules. Decree-Law No 162 of 2019 provided for a detailed timetable for the submission of PEF proposals by motorway concessionaires, including the completion of the approval process by 31 July 2020. As is well known, the Covid-19 containment measures have, however, led to an extension of the time allowed for the assessment of economic and financial plans. The same decree-law has frozen the tariff increases for almost all of the motorway network for the year 2020, and until the definition of the procedure for updating PEFs. To date, therefore, for the year 2020 there has been no tariff increase and there will be no tariff increase. I conclude by pointing out that, in the evaluation of economic and financial plans, account will be taken of the economic and financial balance and the needs to promote mobility on the national territory, in particular where there should be openings of yards that can slow down the flow of traffic, also using tariff policies consistent with the economic effects determined by Covid-19. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Grimani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr De Micheli for his assessment and clarification. It is a good thing that there will be no increases throughout 2020: it is good news - although well known - for citizens, so they will not risk a worsening of the costs of movement. It is also important at this stage - certainly the Minister will do so, and it will also be our job as representatives of the citizens in Parliament - to create the conditions for the future months to allow, in the more than ever the definition of economic and financial plans, to link tariff policies more and more to the quality of services, in accordance with the key principle of price cap. We will always follow the story with attention in the perspective - common to Parliamentary Groups and Government - of facilitating the quality of life of citizens and thus reducing the costs of life, including motorway tolls, given the importance of movement for both leisure and especially business activity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u26	Senator Malan has the right to explain the question 3-01811 on the races for motorway concessions and the takeover in the capital of Autostrade for Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u27	Minister, we have asked a question about the agreement reached at the Council of Ministers on 14 and 15 July - we have asked two questions on it - concerning the situation regarding the concession of Autostrade for Italy, a concession covering more than half of the tolls on Italian motorways. The first question is why not make a competitive procedure. If there has to be a change in the majority of the ownership of the concession of Autostrade for Italy, we wonder why not launch a competitive procedure that would put in place the many professionalisms present in our country, while avoiding to employ public capital anyway. Cash deposits and loans has a particular function; the debt of Cash deposits and loans is public debt to all intents and purposes, and it does not appear that in Cash deposits and loans there are the professionalism necessary to manage a complex machine like Autostrade for Italy, which is one of the most important Italian companies from the industrial, infrastructural and financial point of view, for the great importance it has on the markets. Let us not forget that this huge concession - in essence, more than half of the Italian motorway network - has already been given in its time without any competition. I would like to recall in this regard certain principles of the European Union as well as those of convenience for citizens and consumers, and in this case we mean not consumers of a kind of luxury or superfluous, but all Italian companies that, through motorways, trade, buy and carry out their business. Therefore, it is the Italy system as a whole that is damaged in case the situation is not convenient. And the best convenient situation would be with a competition.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u28	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u29	With regard to the procedure initiated with regard to Aspi, I would remind you that at its meeting on 14 July last year the Council of Ministers examined the two transactive proposals submitted by Aspi and Atlantia and decided to initiate the procedure provided for in the law for the formal definition of a transaction. I'm starting with the last request made. The decision to initiate the transaction - and not the withdrawal procedure - has determined the continuity of the concessionary relationship between the State - the grantor (the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport) - and Autostrade for Italy. In the event of a revocation, it would have become necessary - as you, Senator Malan, introduced in your presentation - first the splitting of the concession (today it is 2,885 kilometers), and then start, on the four minimum lots provided for by the new regulations, the conduct of autonomous tendering procedures, whose expected times - considering that there is only a precedent of conclusion in our country - are estimated in three or four years. A number of activities could obviously not have been carried out at this time for the granting of the concession, including maintenance, security measures and investment. Therefore, the concessionary relationship is in continuity, while, in the light of the proposals received by the Council of Ministers, the company structure of Aspi will be modified. The solution identified by the Council of Ministers ensures the full realisation of the public interests associated with the need to avoid the suspension of infrastructure management, the paralysis of construction sites started (including safety issues) and the safeguarding of employment levels, while at the same time providing for an enormous amount (EUR 14.5 billion) of new investments. I would like to point out, in the light of the second question, Senator Malan, that the entry of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti does not lead to a staticization of Aspi, since it is expected that new private investors will enter, but will allow to speed up the process of transformation of the company into a public company and the finding, therefore, on the market, of additional resources to strengthen the infrastructure and also strengthen the investment plan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u30	I call Senator Malan to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u31	Mr Minister, your answer is timely, but not reassuring, because - we have read it in the press releases that followed the Council of Ministers' meeting - the choice of institutional investors will take place on the basis of the acceptance of Cassa depositi e loani. In the context of the free market and competition, the acceptance must take place on the basis of objective criteria and, therefore, of at least public procedures, while the acceptance of Cassa deposits and loans really reassures us little. In any case, there will be a need for a powerful intervention - we are talking about several billion euros - by Cassa depositi e loani. In the presence of hundreds of thousands of Italian companies in difficulty - the situation of the Italian economy was already not flourishing before and now the crisis due to the pandemic is added - to think of entering with Cassa deposits and loans, which among its tasks has to support the companies in their investments and in the future, and to operate a change in the corporate structure only in order to be able to say that they have kicked out the Benettons, we do not think an appropriate use of the money of the Italian savers. Moreover, it does not seem to us to be reassuring from an international point of view, nor from a tariff point of view. Today Autostrade for Italy presents the financial plan and, at least on that side, we will see if there is greater transparency and ability to really find the substance of this agreement, which risks to be very, but very expensive. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u32	Senator Campari has the right to explain the question 3-01815 on the new corporate structure of Autostrade for Italy SpA, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am saving the premises. We are always talking about Autostrade per l'Italia (Aspi) and Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP) and the offer submitted by the latter. In particular, it is requested to know the details of the proposal, with regard in particular to the capital shares that will be purchased from Cassa depositi e prestiti and from other possible investors. It is also asked to know the identity of any investors - if you know anything, if there are stakes - and to know who between Cash deposits and loans and other investors, including those that are already holders of Autostrade shares for Italy, will have decision-making powers regarding the management of the company or who will be mere capital partner. It is also asked to know the estimate of the value of Autostrade for Italy SpA and the price per share that Cassa deposits and loans and other investors will pay in order to acquire the capital shares, also with respect to the identification of parameters to be used for the determination of the maximum purchase price; the guarantees provided in order to the effective realization of the maintenance and the investments previewed and the effective reduction of the tolls, especially in terms of compatibility with the profitability of the operation for Cassa depositi and loans; if the compensatory investments for 3,4 billion euros previewed from the transactive proposal will be realized before or after the entry of Cassa depositi and loans in the capital of Autostrade for Italy SpA and, finally, the details of the future industrial plan of the "new" Autostrade for Italy SpA, also regarding a future revision of the system of the motorway concessions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u34	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u35	Mr President, in addition to what has already been reported to the House in response to the questions put by the other Senators at this sitting, I am confirming that, with regard to Autostrade's corporate structure for Italy, the shareholder Atlantia made himself available, in a formal letter to the relevant Ministries, to the capital increase by Cassa depositi e loani. This implies that there will be no cash transfer between Cash deposits and loans and the current shareholder Atlantia. Secondly, other institutional investors will enter the planned path within this availability, until they arrive, in the last phase, to a passage with the listing on the stock exchange and, therefore, with the possibility of Italians and Italians to buy the shares of Autostrade for Italy. With regard, however, to the commitments entered into in relation to the concessionary relationship - therefore not on the development of the company's progression - the conditions for restoring the full security of the trust relationship between the grantor and the concessionaire provide for: €3.4 billion as compensatory measures; a plan of €14.5 billion for investments on the network, of which €5.5 billion to be achieved by 2024, between the autumn of 2020 and 2024; the strengthening of controls and checks, in addition to an increase, and in some cases to the doubling, of investments for maintenance on the motorway network. The obligations of the concessionaire for the rebalancing of the concessionary relationship between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the concessionaire, which we have estimated to be unbalanced, also establish the application of the tariff regime relative to the resolutions of the Authority of regulation of the transports (ART), in the preview of a moderation of the development of the tariff trend much more contained regarding what happened in the past, with a maximum increase of 1.75%. Moreover, it is expected that the value of compensation will be recognised in the event of an early termination, as laid down by a law of the Italian Parliament (the Decree of 2019, Article 35), with the application of the Code of Procurement and the recognition of the effectiveness of the resolution and in any case of the early termination, when ordered, for failure attributable to the concessionaire with a typical case. In addition, the payment of compensation in this case is not paid immediately, but would be paid only at the end of the tendering procedure for a possible new concessionaire. It is also expected to increase the amount of penalties for individual cases of less serious defaults. I remember the commitment of the dealer to give up all the litigation in place with the administrations and, in particular, the litigation linked to the collapse of the Morandi bridge. The offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economic Affairs are working precisely in these hours to implement as soon as possible the resolution of the Council of Ministers and to arrive at the definition of the settlement agreement within the terms that I have briefly indicated in these few minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u36	Senator Campari has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u37	Mr Minister, it is difficult to respond to your answer, not because of your particularity, but simply because it is generic, and above all it is not difficult to imagine the disgust of the people at home who hear answers of this kind with which they do not actually respond to what they ask. [[Applause]] You haven't told us what it's worth. Aspi today, nor what will be worth tomorrow, especially if we go to action on tolls. In doing so, you know very well that the value of Aspi will be different and will also mean that there will be a problem for Cash deposits and loans: having a decrease in tolls there will also be a decrease in receipts, so it is not said that the value of Aspi today is equal to the value of Aspi tomorrow. He did not tell us if, acting in this way, he felt that the company would be less attractive for any investors; this could also be a problem. He did not tell us who the investors will be and if there will be stakes for them; they could be Chinese or others. If it's okay with you, I don't know, but we have clear ideas in this area. [[Applause]] Another issue to consider concerns the work that has been left behind and the possible damage that might arise, because not all Ligurians think like you and do not think that it is a perception that Liguria and its highways are at this moment absolutely isolated. You have told us absolutely nothing about the fact that the lawyers you have appointed thought that the concessions could be lifted at no cost. You have therefore decided on a liquidation rather than a revocation. You have perhaps decided to confirm the tariffs instead of reviewing them. In short, in a nutshell, we have still clashed with your ideology and your inconclusion. The situation today - and I am going to conclude, President - is that those who had said that it had to be put on the corner today comes out of the winner: the Benettons in fact do not leave Aspi, but are only reduced, at least initially. They have gained in these years enjoying full and total toll rates and have seen their title Atlantia grow by a nice + 26 percent from evening to morning on the stock exchange, d'emblée, just because someone spoke when they did not have to. [[Applause]] In essence, dear comrades, in the end you are really good, you are just left, because you are managing to statize the losses and privatise the profits. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u38	Senator Boldrini has the right to explain the question 3-01812 on the dissemination and effectiveness of the Immuni application for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u39	Mr President, Minister, the strategy of the three Ts (testing, tracing, negotiating) to monitor the Covid-19 also provided for the use of apps to identify positive cases and isolate them. After the trial phase in some regions, the Immuni app has now arrived for a month all over the national territory. The contact tracing application, which can already be downloaded from June 1st, has the task in fact to track any contacts of users with positive people to the new coronavirus. The Immuni app allows users of mobile phones that have activated the application to receive notification of possible exposure to the coronavirus. The entire system of the app is not present, nor are the names or other elements that can be traced back to the identity of the positive person or of those who have had contact with her, but alphanumeric codes. The use of the application is voluntary and operating in full respect of the privacy of those who download it and has the aim of increasing the safety in the phase of resumption of activities and evolution of the epidemic in Italy. Mobile users who decide to download the application thus contribute to protecting themselves and the people they meet. If they have come into contact with subjects who subsequently have positive results at the swab, they are notified with a notification of the app; this should allow them to contact the general medical doctor in good time to receive information on the steps to be taken. As is apparent from the data released a few days ago on the press, there are so far about 4 million people who claim to have downloaded the application. The communication campaign is underway, but the number of Italians who downloaded the application still seems to be far from the thresholds assumed for an effective functioning of the entire tracking system. We therefore ask you, Minister, what number of people have downloaded the Immuni app (it will certainly have the data) and what number of people are infected. Above all, we ask the Government's assessment of the current effectiveness of the application and what tracking strategies it considers necessary to strengthen, especially in view of the resumption of school activities in the autumn, as of many other work activities, because we really want to know very much what the Government thinks, since that of tracing is one of the strategies that it has put in place. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalization, Dr Pisano, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u40	Mr President, Senator Boldrini, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, after the authorisation of the Data Protection Supervisor, the Immuni app has been operating throughout Italy since 15 June. The application of the Ministry of Health, to whose development I have contributed by providing technological support within the framework of my competences, is one of the tools of contrasting the diffusion of coronavirus, within the framework of the health strategy of the Ministry itself. According to the latest data available to me, the app has been installed by more than 4,300,000 users; according to a research by the University of Pavia, this figure represents about 12 percent of the Italian population between fourteen and seventy-five years in possession of smartphones necessary for the use of the application. As regards the contribution of the application in the fight against coronavirus, according to the Ministry of Health the positive subjects in possession of the application who have consented to the sending of the message of notification are 46. From July 13 to today the subjects alerted thanks to the application turn out to have been 23. Thanks to "Immuni," therefore, 23 people had the opportunity to know the risk from infection to which they were exposed. This demonstrates the usefulness of the application. The problem is not to identify the "x" or "y" download threshold to evaluate the effectiveness of the application. When I hear that the University of Oxford has scored 60% of the minimum utility threshold for the Covid-19 exposure notification tools, I wonder why the next period of the study in question should never be read. Let me quote, as the Massachusett institute of technology review reports: "Many reports and media analyses have taken up a sentence from the report, which reads: "Our models show that we can stop the epidemic if about 60 percent of the population uses the app. " But they have regularly omitted the second half of the sentence: "Also with fewer users of the application we still estimate a reduction in the cases of coronavirus and deaths." I never said the application was the only solution to the virus's containment. In Italy the application is part of an overall strategy that is also based on other containment measures. Of course, the wider the spread of the application, the more known it will be and the more able it will be to help to facilitate the actions of contrast to the coronavirus. Commissioner Arcuri launched a communication campaign aimed at raising awareness among citizens of all ages about the use of the application, especially for those who live and operate in small urban centres, within businesses, associations, universities and even schools. The use of application in schools has been suggested by the Technical and Scientific Committee and the General Military Health Inspectorate has also made all the armed forces' personnel aware of the use of the application. Let me conclude by saying that we want Italy to return to all aspects, from jobs, to school, to tourism, which is vital for our country, and to do so safely. The more we are and the more we will be downloading "Immuni" and the more we will be able to turn off new potential outbreaks with benefits for all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u41	I give the floor to Senator Collina to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and welcome the reply. I believe that its competences represent a cross-cutting impact of digitisation on our entire public administration compared to all other ministries. The task of the Ministry is therefore not specific, but it is evident that we are faced with important experiments, which have never occurred in our country, which enjoy significant accelerations at this time in the consideration and awareness of citizens. It seems clear to me that the threshold of success of downloads does not correspond to the threshold of effectiveness expected of the presence of the application. However, this must not prevent us from continuing to insist in this direction and I believe it must be taken as an index of the gap that we still find regarding not only the use of the technologies available for service objectives - there is also a whole other world of public administration services that have not yet met the citizens in the desired way - but also the lack of willingness to cross the data. The theme of privacy is definitely important. I applaud his commitment to attending the technological communities of good and followed bloggers, which can represent an important vehicle to increase everyone's sensitivity to the issues in question. The features of the application are important with reference also to the technologies used by Italian developers who have been engaged. I urge you to insist on this because I think that, beyond the limits we are seeing, other ministries, such as the Ministry of Health, need to assess the different directions to be followed in order to achieve the health objectives. I believe that this is also a way forward from the point of view of technological commitment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u43	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u46	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, from 1 January to 23 July 2019 there were 3,431 landings; in 2020 11,191 landings. Only yesterday, July 22, there were 689 landings. The month of July 2020, to date - it has not yet ended - shows an increase of 223 percent of landings and is the worst of the last three years, from 2018 to today, with the increase that all this is happening in the midst of a health emergency. Unfortunately, the disastrous results of the irresponsible policy implemented by the Counte-bis Government have not spared my Basilicata. The Basilicata had reached after the emergency Covid-19 a great and beautiful primacy that made us proud - being the first Covid Free Region throughout Italy - thanks to the sense of high responsibility of the Lucans - as indeed of all Italians - to the great work of doctors and health workers; to the deep, intense and daily dedication of all the mayors and also to the great work put on the field by the Basilicata Region. But what has this Government done? He has brought immigrants in the past few days, who have reopened the doors of the nightmare. And this happened when two Lucan ministers are present to the Government: Minister Hope, who closes the airports and Minister Lamorgese, who instead opens the ports to those who come from those same nations to which entry is forbidden. [[Applause]] This has happened and we have been, for a few days, 52 Bengali citizens, 12 in the province of Matera and 40 in Potenza city, of which 10 and 27 positive. Today we have learned that a Nigerian, who is staying in the same structure, is positive and has so far turned freely with her fellow countrymen. In conclusion, Mr President, the Government must consider how to compensate for the image damage to the Basilicata Region: it was a safe tourist destination and reduced it - or rather, it wants to reduce it, but it will not succeed - to a lazzaretto. We will not give up the dream of a safe destination in front of the government's inability, just as we will not blow up the sacrifices of so many tour operators, who have stood up with pride and dignity. [[Applause]] You need to stop the illegal landings. It must seal the reception centers, so that the infection from within is not brought to the outside and must answer for its responsibilities. It is not by chance that I have put an urgent question to Mr Lamorgese today, so that we know clearly why the planned controls have not been carried out at the landing, at Lampedusa before and at Agrigento after. Anyone with responsibilities must be nailed to them. [[Applause]] The Basilicata starts again and will start again, from an economic and social point of view, because it is strong and does not give up to sad men and women who are well only in the shadow of the government building. Come on, Basilicata! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u47	I am suspending the sitting, which will resume shortly, in order to take account of the change in the agenda as regards the continuation of next week's work. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.08 a.m. and resumed at 17.07 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, as already agreed informally between the parliamentary groups, at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 28 July, the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on further initiatives in connection with the emergency from Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-244.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.09 p.m.
