ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u4	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are absolutely not convinced, compared to what was the reading of the Minutes, but also to what was a debate that we had already substantially anticipated at yesterday's Conference of Leaders, that it is clear that the question of trust was raised correctly. We have heard the audio and there is a passage in which this statement is being made, but President La Russa, who was chairing the sitting at that time, basically stops the work and suspends the work. We therefore totally dispute this point and want to have the vote, because we do not agree with it at all. After that, since there are some passages in the minutes related to speeches made by our colleague Zuliani, we are also in a position to support, in order to be clarified, that we have moved to make a peaceful occupation, in full compliance with the rules and that someone, on the basis of an initiative that we have understood to have been organized (which does not belong to either the parliamentary assistants or the quaestors senators), has prevented us from doing so. This was the main cause of the gatherings that were there. That is why we are asking for the vote on the Minutes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u7	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, following on from President Romeo's suggestion and censure, I would like to say that the Minutes are authentic until they are false, because they reflect the progress of the proceedings. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u8	Let's let Senator Licheri finish, then we'll make all the observations.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u9	LICHERI (M5S). From this point of view, the minutes can be put to the vote, but only and exclusively when there are differences with the political parties, not when it does not reflect the reality of the facts, because on the reality of the facts the authority is that of the President of the Senate. We do not therefore believe that there are the conditions for voting on the Minutes because, if that were the case, we would then have the problem of what to write instead of what was voted on and therefore I do not believe that this is the procedure envisaged. On the substance, the statement with which the question of trust has been raised has been fully formulated in all its articulation and in all its meaning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u12	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I think that the question now posed by Senator Romeo was clarified and defined yesterday at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders by a decision on the timetable which I believe is shared: we did not vote on it, so there was a decision on the shared timetable. This means that everyone shared the fact that today there would be a debate on the question of trust, which, among other things, started yesterday and which became necessary after, as I understand it, President La Russa himself, at the meeting of the Leaders, attested to the fact that Minister D'Incà had completed the formula. Frankly, therefore, after accepting the timetable from the debate on trust, I find it unreasonable to question the fact that we are discussing trust and I also find it foolish to vote on a report which merely recognises what happened yesterday, namely that the debate on trust began yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, yesterday we had long meetings - two, to be precise - of the Conference of the Leaders, at which President Casellati, even at the first meeting, but to be more precise, having checked the minutes well, started, in the debate on the modalities for the conduct of the trust procedure, from the fact that the question of trust was correctly raised, which was also stated by the Vice-President La Russa who presided. President Romeo was present at the meeting of the Leaders and he knows it perfectly well. Among other things, today we want to question this part by denouncing the minutes and the shorthand report. You may ask to put the Minutes to the vote because you want to add a clarification, but all yesterday's debate, even formally, at the meeting of the Leaders perhaps focused on the modalities, whether the House was clearing or not, whether the general debate was beginning yesterday evening or this morning, but that assumption was not called into question. I don't know if the night changed the facts, but the facts are absolutely these. I repeat that the procedures for requesting correction or voting of the minutes provide, in practice, for the possibility of adding and specifying a position or statements, but certainly not of questioning an absolutely procedural fact which - I repeat - was the assumption made by President Casellati and also by the vice-president on duty at that time, and which therefore took place in a correct manner. If then someone actually intended to prevent the government from speaking in order to put trust, we understood this, but because this happened and the trust was placed correctly, I believe that today we can have anything added to the minutes, but certainly not question, through the vote on that point, the fact that the government correctly put the question of trust, reading the minutes, reading the device and clearly saying that the trust was placed on the text of the decree transmitted by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u18	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is always better to take the Rules of Procedure in the face of these matters. It is clear that the proposal made by President Romeo has nothing to do with obstruction, because the new Rules of Procedure do not provide, for the vote on the Minutes, for verification of the quorum, as was the case at the time. The proposal therefore does not have a obstructive meaning, but a political and truthful meaning. I read what Rule 60 says: Minutes shall be drawn up for each sitting, which shall contain only acts and resolutions, indicating the subject matter and names of those who took part in the proceedings. If the vote is to be taken, the vote shall be taken by show of hands and no quorum shall be required. What President Romeo disputes, and I share...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u19	President Calderoli, I'm sorry to interrupt. Colleagues, we all know that there is no record in this House. [[Comments]] Yes, Senator Pillon, it happened exactly by your side. [[Comments.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). He's reading the press release. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, President Romeo, from my perspective, as Senator Pillon showed me... [[Comments.]] And in fact, it is not addressed to you, Senator Pillon, but to your neighbor. You don't force me every time... [[Comments.]] Even so, made in such a striking way, it is rather in contempt of the rules, to which the Vice President of your Group was also calling us.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u20	Mr President, I didn't notice, because everything was happening behind my back, so they were viciously committing an offense. President Romeo says: I do not recognise the fact that the question of trust has been raised. When this happened, I was standing next to the president's scroncher because I would have to take over from President La Russa. From that position, then immediately behind the position in which Minister D'Incà was, I say to her that I heard the first two or three words that Minister D'Incà said and the following failed. However, because of my high age (probably I suffer from hypoacusia), I went to hear for ten times the audio, which is available on the Senate website. And even after hearing it ten times, that sentence I find in the shorthand report didn't find it. Is that gonna be my problem? Am I deaf? All right, but others obviously haven't heard from him either. Since, on the other hand, obviously, we have someone who has such an exceptional development of hearing as to be able to put the articles, the numbers, the day and the date, I congratulate him. I do not feel I am voting in favour of a shorthand report which, Senator Licheri, is a fake in public act when it is to be approved. As long as it's not approved yet, there's no fake public act. [[Applause]] The vote that we are asking for is a preventive action against the assumption of the crime, that is, the false act in the public act. What happens if the Minutes are not approved? I see agitation in the other rows and I find it unjustified. If the Minutes are rejected, it is not that the sitting is closed and we cannot proceed. So I don't understand why these continuous interventions [[Applause]] , which makes me think of a majority obstructionism at this point. [[Comments.]] Senator Sant'Angelo, thank you for your support. I noticed yesterday too. I repeat, if it were to be rejected, we will proceed with our work and at the next sitting we will again have a report with a proposal for a correction which, in case, will be put to a vote. We shall then proceed to the vote on this Minutes and close the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u21	Meanwhile the interventions are exhausted, because the word, according to paragraph 3 of Article 60, is granted only to those who intend to have you insert a correction, for personal fact or for simple announcement of vote. I put to the vote the proposal to correct the minutes by show of hands, by electronic procedure given the load that we have made of those who cannot stay in the Chamber. Those who wish to correct the minutes will vote yes, those who do not wish to correct the minutes will vote no. The correction is the one proposed by President Romeo. It's one. The vote is open. [[Protests]] Wait a minute. What's going on? [[Protests.]] Calm down, let's not close the vote until everyone's in a position... [[Protests.]] What's going on? [[Protests]] CHORO OF VOICES. Honesty, honesty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, allow everyone to vote, as we have always done when there is a first vote. This is absolutely true for everyone. Senator Laus can't vote. Wait a minute. [[Protests.]] Wait a minute. VOICE. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you all in a position to vote? [[Protests]] Colleagues, if you do not all return to your place, I do not declare the vote closed. [[Protests]] because the vote cannot be closed. [[Protests.]] No, I do not close the vote until everyone takes his place and does not stop the bad weather in this House. [[Protests]] The vote is closed. [[Applause]] It's not approved. CHORO OF VOICES. Honesty, honesty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there are no other comments, the Minutes are deemed to have been adopted as they have been read.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u22	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u23	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2040, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government does not cease to amaze us. [[Brusio. Comments.]] Mr President, either you can achieve silence in this House or I cannot speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u25	Senator Pucciarelli, the Presidency has the task of ensuring that the work of this House is carried out smoothly, so that you can take up your speech, and I therefore very much ask colleagues to allow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u28	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. We have heard Mr Santangelo calling Mr Lucidi a delinquent. [[Protests]] That's how it was! He either apologizes or leaves this House because he does not represent the institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u29	Colleagues, let us consider that yesterday some events of intemperance have already occurred and we have rightly referred to possible reconstructions, with videos and videos. So please allow us to continue with the work of this House. The Presidency therefore calls on the whole House to observe a follow-up and worthy behaviour, not least because there is no reason to do otherwise after the unanimous vote on the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u32	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on the order of business, in order to explain what has happened to you. Senator Lucidi's personal choices are personal choices, but if he comes in front of me, he hits me and throws me the phone is clear that it exacerbates the souls. That's not possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u33	Senator Lanzi, the comments I have just given you on the footage, for the reconstruction of events and for any subsequent measures remain even more valid. I beg Senator Pucciarelli to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr President. As I said, the government doesn't end up surprising us. We have passed from the decrees of Matrioska, indeed in times of Covid it is more right to define them in Chinese style, to the model decree of Tarot. The urgency of issuing the decree-law in question is contained only in the title. In Italy, since 31 January, the state of emergency has been declared for reasons of public health, which has been extended until 31 January 2021. Since early March, Italians have started fighting to survive the Covid-19, on the one hand, and the economic crisis, on the other. In the meantime, through several DPCMs, many of their rights have been restricted and in some cases suspended. They accepted this deprivation, showing a sense of responsibility and respect for the rules. Well, if some Italians found the time to read the 251 pages of the decree-law in question, they would realize that there is not a single article that intervenes on emerging situations. Moreover it would realize the paradox of the decisions of the Government, that on the one hand closes the ports to the ships from cruise, although they had been used to adapt to the anticontagion measures, operating in this way in safety, but it keeps them wide open for those who decide to land, without asking authorization and without the minimum measure of anti-Covid prevention. [[Applause]] Precisely in this sense, it is to be asked - indeed, I ask the Government - what purpose did the interministerial decree of 7 April 2020, n. 150, adopted by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health, which, in reference to the ports, defined Italy as an unsafe place because of the pandemic in place, with the consequence of not being able to consent to the landings. I ask the government what has done with this decree: whether it exists and is still alive, or whether it has been abolished. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u35	Senator Pucciarelli, excuse me, but I have to ask colleagues for the courtesy of leaving the government benches free.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u36	Please, Senator Pucciarelli. Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Dear colleagues of the majority, you may have been distracted, but from April to today more than 30,000 people have landed. What future can you guarantee to the people who have arrived, when you are not even able to guarantee the present to the Italians? [[Applause]] The future to which you are destined resembles the situation that we find in front of the station of Roma Termini, where men and women bivouac day and night, fulfilling their needs next to where they sleep, without a goal and deprived of their dignity. This is what concerns the future. As for the present, it is enough to go to visit the hotspot of Lampedusa, where I was in September and November. In the first case there were more than 800 people, while in the second there were more than 600, although the capacity is about 100 places. Well, there is no distance there and there are men, women, children and unaccompanied minors in a situation of promiscuity and without distance. [[Applause]] People eat and sleep outdoors, finding shelter - the lucky ones - under the few plants there are; this even when it rains or is cold, as it is now. But you are the good ones, the ones of the "we remain human." This is your way of managing immigration. This is what you have always done: to launch illusory messages that bring thousands of people to Italy and then to download the problem on society. [[Applause]] Illustrate the children, causing them to leave their family and loved ones, in the hope of finding who knows what future perspective here. When Salvini was at the Ministry of the Interior, there were no deaths aboard the ships, as women, children and people who needed treatment were always landed. Today we have 15-year-olds dying in the government, because we have them disembarked from the ship too late to cure them. [[Applause]] I'm talking about Abou, whose death hasn't caused a stir; maybe the less you talk about it, the better, because someone has responsibilities and there's an open investigation. But we were the bad guys, and you're the good guys...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u37	Senator Pucciarelli, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u38	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). What I really wanted to find in this decree-law were measures to put order in the chaos you once again generated. The thing that I am most sorry and a little surprised - but, after Saturday, my astonishment has failed - is that a part of the current majority that has approved the politics of the Government Count 1 and Salvini's policy, today, first with the permission to proceed in the Assembly and then with this decree, wants instead to cancel Salvini. But I have to say that they do this not out of opportunism or attachment to the chair, but - and I understood it thanks to Toninelli - because they just don't remember. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u39	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u40	Mr President, I will be a heretic, but I want to say a word which is allergic to many of you: Homeland. [[Applause]] Our homeland is made of territory and traditions. I want to mention my beautiful municipality, Fiumicino: our administration has granted the opportunity to make Christmas songs, but without religious references. Now in Italy do we have to be ashamed of being Christians? No, we are not ashamed to be Christians: we vindicate our cultural and religious belongings. As for borders, Italy has borders and the Constitution, together with international laws, requires us to control, both material and military, our borders. Let us remember: we are a nation that must defend its own borders, because here we are senators of the Italian Republic and we must protect the interests of Italians, and not the interests of citizens of other nations. We are proudly Italian. Also because I would like to remind you - perhaps someone has forgotten this - that the Schengen Treaty only covers twenty-six of the European States, of which twenty-two of the European Union, where there is free movement. All other citizens of other nations are not given freedom of movement in our nation and not even in Europe. When we talk about illegal immigration, the word itself says that it is illegal and, therefore, those who enter do so illegitimately and are not allowed to enter Europe through Italian ports. It's not authorized. There are flights and humanitarian corridors to help people in difficulty, who have the right to be assisted according to international bodies, otherwise everything is illegal. A nation has the right to defend itself, otherwise it favours immigration that produces not integration, but marginalization and delinquency. But what did the Italians do to turn our cities and our suburbs into areas of degradation, our parks into areas of illegal immigrant dealing? What have the Italians done to you, who are betraying them every day? In addition, my lords, I would like to lay a pitiful veil on a story that has seen us all involved, applauding on the one hand and contesting on the other: Mrs. Rackete who has voluntarily invested a military boat of the Finance Guard, a heroine for the left who has been under house arrest three days. In Florence, children, not on the left, who have made an unauthorized leaflet have been under house arrest for four weeks, because they are not left-wing. Shame! [[Applause]] We will not give in to your pressure. We will not yield to your intimidation. We will not betray the children of Italy. We will not betray our nation, for a simple reason: we will never surrender, but we will continue our battle for our greatest love, that is our beloved Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u42	Mr President, since this decree-law does not - as we have repeatedly said - have any requirement of necessity and urgency, it completely upsets the pre-existing discipline and security decrees desired by Matteo Salvini, who had been adopted to meet the legitimate demands of local administrators, law enforcement forces and citizens themselves. This decree-law, on the other hand, had only NGOs as their intercourse. In fact, the rules on residence permits and other similar residence permits, the rules on international protection, the rules on the detention of foreigners have been extended and the rules on the prohibitions on the entry of ships into the territorial sea and their penalties have been completely amended. In addition, the time limits for citizenship proceedings and for functions, service standards and types of services, as well as for beneficiaries of the reception system, have been amended. In order to avoid an indiscriminate reception, the League has proposed, both to the House and to the Senate, a series of amendments, which you have not allowed us to discuss, in order to be able to make a constructive and non-obstructional contribution and to help and collaborate with our local administrators and with our police forces. We of the League have proposed a loyal collaboration - a term unknown to this majority now [[Applause]] - between the levels of government concerned, within which there are structures of various types and different functions. It wasn't like that. I remember that the previous discipline compared to the Salvini decrees allowed all prefects to distribute migrants without informing the local administrators in advance or informing them only in the imminence of arrivals. From that PD-signed government there was some abuse of power. During that period there were many spontaneous demonstrations of the local communities that, together with their mayors, protested against the entry into their territory of immigrants. With this measure we will return to that period, Mr President, because the responsibilities in the management of the migration emergency will inevitably fall on the local authorities and communities and many prefects, for fear of being removed, will be forced to comply with the directives of the Minister of the Interior on the distribution of migrants, without having any possibility of consulting the mayors, as was the case with those previous central-left governments. The measure under consideration reduces the possibilities for mayors and local administrators to intervene, with the risk that they may be able to handle very sensitive public policy situations. [[Applause]] That is why we had proposed a number of amendments relating to local police - all of them clearly not discussed - in view of the fact that this measure strengthens certain measures concerning the prohibition of access to premises and public establishments, the application of which will have to be guaranteed by the same. The arrival and continuous permanence of a large number of migrants, the further measures regarding prohibition and access to public services and premises, whose application is largely returned to the local police, will likely increase the perception of insecurity in our country at this time. However, Mr President, with this decree-law we are witnessing a real change of pace today: protection for illegal immigrants and less protection for the rights of Italians. It is now clear that this Government creates real social inequalities, as it is clear that it is formed by a mix of political forces and does not think of the Italians who are currently experiencing a situation of great discomfort, like all of us. The Government has only one objective: to demolish security decrees one and two, with the sole aim of attacking and blocking Matteo Salvini. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u44	Mr President, today, December 18th, there are six days left on Christmas Eve and Italians still do not know what they will be able to do or not and, because a decree-law, made on December 2nd, says things. At the time, the President-in-Office of the Council had asked us to make sacrifices in October, so that we could finally embrace our loved ones at Christmas. Today we do not know, but we assume from the indiscretions that there will be a total closure. It wouldn't be bad to know before, because everyone has to make plans, especially if they have to make trips. Those who have restaurants and have been waiting for months for this moment, which represents an important percentage of their turnover, have made stocks and bought food, which are not like the DPCM that, after one, you make another one at zero cost for those who sign it. Well, six days after that, nothing is yet known. But the problem, for the majority and the government, is to change immigration laws in order to make - put it your way, put it as blandly as possible - less easy and more difficult the contrast to illegal immigration. This is a clear fact, it is written in every part of the decree-law, and on this the Government has thought in time, because it is a decree of October. Then, because of the forced monocameralism, against the principles of the Constitution, although formally respected, the examination was done only in the Chamber of Deputies. Here we are saying yes or no, of course with the question of trust, which binds, albeit not absolutely, the senators of the majority. With regard to immigration, before thinking about widening the meshes, in order to make it more difficult to combat illegal immigration, the laws are overwhelmed. On the negativity of immigration everyone agrees with words and everyone says that, even in the area of immigration, we should respect the laws: but it is enough to bypass them with the boats, the boatmen and the various subterfugees that we know and have read in the chronicles; in reality, there would be much more to say than we read. Immigration is a huge phenomenon and has always existed. During these periods it has taken on a completely different form, dimensions and aspects and, precisely for this reason, it should be handled in an orderly manner. Thinking about resetting it is impossible, but even thinking about opening the doors, more or less indiscriminately, to those entering illegally is extremely negative. We all know that many foreigners are very well placed in our society. Certain sectors would have difficulty moving forward without foreigners, but this is because they are included in society, because they have skills, because they have a spirit and have arrived with certain economic conditions in our country, where they have found employment. Otherwise, if they were still here without employment and without references, they would be - as many are - a danger to our country. The concern should be how to enforce the laws. Those who want to legally immigrate to our country face enormous obstacles, without end, with practices that last years. People, who have been here for over 20 years, can't get citizenship because of bureaucratic hiccups. [[Applause]] That problem should be solved, in a not anti-immigrationist perspective at all costs, but that wants an orderly society, where - as we know of course - there are many foreigners resident in our country. Instead, life is made easier for those who organize trips in boats, with whom they put themselves in danger and, many times, breaks the life of those who use them. Well, it makes life easier for those people. Frankly, I really don't think this was a priority. Statistics should also be read. In November alone there was a huge increase, 4 times higher than last year and 5 times compared to two years ago: it should be a problem, to be solved in other ways and not saying to make it come more in our country. That really doesn't make sense. The proof of the difficulties of entering those people in our country is also without going to the news: just read the data and statistics, the official ones, the Istat and the Ministry of Justice. A quarter of the murders of women in our country - I use the word murders of women instead of feminicide, because, yes, we have a certain term, but so we say that the subject was killed as a woman - is committed by foreigners, who are 8% of the population. Eight percent of the population commit 25 percent of the murders of women, 40 percent of the rapes. When you worry about a week of feminicide and the week after immigration, not integrating issues, it means that you advance to commercials, you go forward by ideology, you go forward to try to make the title and please this or that group of influence. In the area of minors, 53% of minors in prison - there is also the phenomenon of minors in prison - are foreigners: 8% of the population, 53% of minors in prison and, with more difficult and evolving numbers, about 50% of those in juvenile criminal institutions. It is clear that there is a very serious problem of integration and that, with the serious economic crisis caused by the pandemic, of course, it will increase. In a period like the current one, in which production does not increase, there is no increase in tax revenue and none of the positive parameters, the only fact that increases is that of illegal immigration in our country. What is the urgency for the majority? Further increase illegal immigration. It is really a difficult thing to understand, if not with an ideological approach. But when the ideological approach is alternating, it becomes even more worrying. Members of the 5 Star Movement are preparing to vote on the deletion of rules that they passed less than two years ago, during the first Count Government, and which they now cancel for ideological reasons. Frankly, I think most of them are embarrassed. I think most of them are people who have taken on political commitment by believing that they are doing the good of the country and being better than others, or, in any case, having better ideas than others. However, if in theory it could also be, the evidence has shown that it is not so. When a year later you do something and the next year you do the opposite, some questions should be asked and, in fact, here and there are resounding changes. On immigration, however, it is not surprising. Colleagues, I remember the day when, in the last parliamentary term, we were in the Foreign Commissions and defence gathered for the cognitive investigation on the role of NGOs in the transport of immigrants, migrants and refugees across the Mediterranean, depending on how one wants to see them. Like in other hearings in which we had listened to representatives of those organizations and captains of boats - there was not the famous Carola Rackete, but we felt different - also that day it was clearly explained to us that that activity was carried on by ideology, because for them - even if, by chance, they were Germans or Dutch - the more immigrants arrived in Italy and the better it was because of the integration and all these beautiful things. [[Applause]] Well, those NGO representatives regularly received compliments from their colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars who wanted to differentiate themselves from us at Forza Italia who had requested this investigation and from the other colleagues from the center-right who carried it forward. I remember that while they were still carrying on this line, the news came out that Luigi Di Maio, at the time leader of the Movimento 5 Stars, had decided from point to point to point to call the NGO ships "the taxis of the sea," an expression that we already used for two years. Suddenly, however, thanks to the strong media power, as well as the great credit they had, they became "sea taxis," this while colleagues senators of the 5 Stars complimented those NGOs. Then counterorder, comrades. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Malan. MALAN (FIBP-UDC). That ideology didn't work out well, and I'd say the current one works even worse. Let us think about the concrete things, the problems of the Italians, who have many other things to do, also in the field of justice. There are interventions here that concern justice. Every year 1,000 innocent people in Italy end up in prison: you should deal with this and with economic problems, pandemics and employment. Instead, you are concerned with increasing illegal immigration. Don't be surprised if then the indignation is manifested in various ways, sometimes even unsatisfying, but it is certainly not the right path that you are taking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u45	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u46	Mr President, with the measure we are discussing today, we are going to continue a debate which has really reduced the surreality both in the Commission and in this House. On the working method I think that there is not even a word to say, since the facts have shown in these days how on a decree-law on a matter as important as immigration, which is not - with all due respect - the code of the road, we are to discuss and not to discuss, with mortification of the debate, even with the elimination of the spaces that we could have also to make amending proposals. [[Applause]] . First of all, the use of the decree-law: we continue to use this instrument in an absolutely abused way, demonstrating that the government's initiative absolutely prevails over that of Parliament, in a form almost of political dictatorship. Good rules would invite you not to intervene with decree-laws above all on substantive matters, legal matters, and above all criminal matters, and instead here you have again made yet another mistake. But let us talk about necessity and urgency. There is no urgency, because from the time the Salvini decrees were approved to this day it has been almost a year and a half: if there had really been urgency, you could have taken the measure before. As has been pointed out several times by our colleagues, the decree was approved in the Council of Ministers on 8 October, it was published on 21 October, after fifteen days of storage and a limbo where it was not known where this decree was. The need, then, is not even from a constitutional point of view. Let us remember - as colleagues who have already spoken on several occasions - that the President of the Republic of Mattarella has spoken about the problem of the imposition of sanctions, and not about the establishment of the norm. The extent of the administrative penalty was discussed. Today, moreover, not only is there not this kind of legal and factual urgency, but there is also no political urgency to provide it. Our country is facing one of the most terrible moments in its history. There are companies that are at risk of closing down; almost 30% of small craft enterprises - to name but one of the various data - seem to be unable to reopen. There are unemployment prospects which can also give very worrying indicators. There are duties that we will pay heavily in the future; a future that will really be burdened by a public debt that will become unbearable, unless this Government does not repent and firmly decides the use of any resources that can come out of the recovery fund and that must be destined for companies, because the backbone of this State are companies, companies. If there is no business activity you do not create work and, if you do not create work, you do not create wealth. [[Applause]] The people are exhausted, the social estate is at risk and, instead of meeting the interests of the citizens, you, with that unsurpassed doctrine that unfortunately for some time has polluted your way of thinking, do not take into account what is said by the citizens. You believe that you are the custodians of intelligence, the custodians of the great solutions and, therefore, in a context like today's one, in which citizens want to see a state present, a government that knows how to take real and firm decisions, we find ourselves almost exceptional to evaluate the draft law Zan, a liberticide norm. [[Applause]] Let's go to occupy the times on a regulation like the Zan bill, today an unreasonable obsession, because yours is an obsession: as you had Berlusconi's obsession, now you have the obsession to want to erase everything that was done by Minister Salvini. The real need, therefore, is for you political and instrumental to use and go to destroy what has been done. The Salvini decrees worked: the Salvini decree one, the Salvini decree two, so-called security. Needless to say, Minister Lamorgese, although he has these decrees at his disposal, has not applied them, even if they work. [[Applause]] Let's see the data. In July this year 7,063 people arrived on our coasts, against 1,088 in the days of Minister Salvini; in August 5,237, against 1,268; in September 4,386 against 947 of the Salvini management. These are data. We are absolutely not against migratory phenomena, which are part of our history. The League has always argued that those who run away from a war, those who have the right to come to our country must be welcomed and initiated by us to a process of serious integration. But what you have done, that you continue to do and that in the decree-laws in question is absolutely obvious, is that you want to restart the immigration business: this, in fact, can be nothing but the immigration business. [[Applause]] And it is not an interpretation, but it is factual, and it is right that all our fellow citizens should know what we are talking about. In the meantime I would like to remind you that the special protection was introduced with the so-called Salvini decrees in order to limit it to very serious cases, thus allowing some subjects to stay in our country with a permit. Now, instead, we are with permits that seem to recall those of humanitarian protection; that humanitarian protection became labile, broken down, very broad and generic. Let us consider cases one by one, because we are not here to invent and the citizens must know. With this decree-law you leave the possibility of converting into work permits and residence permits various hypotheses: sports activities, artistic works, religious reasons, residence permit for calamity. Let us look at this last case: if it was foreseen in the event that the disaster involved contingent and exceptional events, it is now only serious events. What is a serious calamity? Is drought a serious magnet? Is it to be considered a disaster or a situation that has been consolidated and that is now in the nature of a territory? We do not want these terms to be used in order to interpret the rule more extensively and to translate this into work permits. Let's look at another type: permission for elective residence. What is permission for elective residence? You will have permission to work a foreigner with an Italian pension. But if he has a pension, he's probably self-sufficient and, therefore, doesn't have such an essential need to work. Let us consider another point, of which I have not been able to understand well the nature and the objective, and neither does reading the norm allow me to understand it well. Citizens are aware that refusal, expulsion and extradition of a person to a State are not permitted if there are reasonable grounds to believe that removal from national territory violates the right and respect of their private family life. Colleagues, what does this mean? Taking into account the risk assessment, the nature and effectiveness of the family ties concerned and the social inclusion effect in Italy, we substantially limit the entire mechanism of rejection and expulsion. This interpretation is too late, as is the norm. From a strictly judicial point of view, there were possibilities for action. We know. The cassation is now clogged with appeals in the matter of immigration. A mechanism has been created that leaves broad terms and in this way a subject is free to circulate on our territory until his fate is determined on the basis of a judicial appeal: this is a problem. We have also heard that in the course of the hearings and everyone knows it: this rule is more favourable and will therefore apply. I repeat: this is considered to be a more favourable rule. Colleagues, in conclusion we can say that there are various types of immigration: there is real immigration, that of quality, that which leads people with a qualification, with the possibility of working in an internal market and in a social system able to accept them. There is another immigration: the one without rules, which creates disorder, social conflict [[Applause]] and, unfortunately, discrimination and inconvenience. We invite those people to enter without offering them anything but poverty, but a job in crime. Then there is another terrible immigration: that of business, speculative, which is done not with the head but on the basis of income, income and profit. Colleagues, we had a choice to make and, as our citizens can see, you have made it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Borgonzoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u48	Mr President, I think that if we want to be intellectually honest in this House, we all know that the measure we are considering should not have come, it should not have come now and there was no urgency. If there was an urgency, it was to tighten and control even more the borders of our country. [[Applause),]] that are the borders of Europe; what Matteo Salvini, as Minister of the Interior, did because - as you know very well - when we defend our borders, we defend the whole of Europe. The most embarrassing thing, however, when one speaks and hears some interventions by the majority on the decree-law, is surely the fact that the so-called Salvini decrees have been voted, supported and carried forward by those who are now founded in the majority with the Democratic Party: the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]] You think Italians have a short memory, but it's not that short. The memory will be short, but we all remember - and this is even more embarrassing - the President of the Council who, even if he does Count Two, in Count One was together with Salvini... (Senator Borgonzoni shows a picture depicting the President of the Council and Senator Salvini). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Borgonzoni, I need to take your word out immediately. Put that sign down right now, or I'll have to take your word off. I would ask the parliamentary assistants to speak. Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). The same one who boasted then to approve these decrees, is the same one who now turns and boasts to erase them. [[Applause]] Do you realize that? I do not know: if you were from Movimento 5 Stars, I would be ashamed to intervene in this House. It is a shame twice: firstly, for this image; secondly, because you will remember when you had - as we all have - an electoral programme. Do you remember that? Then maybe I'll bring it to you, because surely you know that, at point 8 of your electoral program - I'm not talking about the program then signed with the League, but about yours - there was a stop to the immigration business.It was signed by Di Maio, political leader Di Maio. [[Applause. Comments.]] Yes, rightly, shame! I heard it on that side yelling at people who are here. You must be ashamed, that you have been voted to do one thing, come here and, for your chair, make another. You should feel ashamed and not attack those who had the courage to come to the other side to defend the country. You should do it too; get up from there, come here, pull out a hair of dignity and don't vote for this crap. That's what you should do. [[Applause]] But probably, like former Minister Toninelli, you hit your head and don't remember anything anymore. We have also seen him completely forget what he signed and what he voted about the issue of stop at landings, the famous closed ports, as best known in the press. What worries us most, however, is not so much your desire to hold a chair. We are more concerned about the repercussions that all this has on the territories, on the country, on the health of all citizens; repercussions that you do not seem to care about. Probably the chair or salary made you eat ideals, what you thought and are willing to do anything. I want to explain to you what they are and what the fallback will be. Let us remember that already with the new Government in all ways we have slowly tried to disregard as much as possible those that were the so-called Salvini decrees. I will try to do this as easily as possible, so that it is truly understandable to everyone. One: Mrs Stefani also spoke of humanitarian protection. You know that humanitarian protection, even in the matter of redistributions, was a great problem, because we only recognized it and, when we talked about people who had humanitarian protection, for the other states were illegal because it was not recognised. We all know that it is a great sanatoria, the one that the Democratic Party likes so much, and that now the Movimento 5 Stars wants to put on the field. A sanatoria that, however, what does it do? It makes our territory more insecure. This is because you employ our Forces of Order - now as during the first lockdown - to chase people here and there rather than control the areas of our cities in the hands of organized crime. An organized crime that, thanks to this attitude on the immigration of a part of the left, and now fully also of the Movimento 5 Stars, finds arms to steal from the hubs, the centers where immigrants are, to put them to sell on the territories. You're complicit in all of this. [[Applause]] ; that you do not realize it is the serious thing, that you do not realize that you are giving people - to whom we cannot promise a better future - in the hands of organized crime. Then there is the whole issue of health checks, which were already missing. I remember that in Bologna the first sorting center was opened in 2014: the illegals who arrived in Lampedusa, without any control were sent directly to Bologna. There's a health risk. This does not mean, as you would like, that when the League speaks of health risk it means that immigrants bring strange diseases. It's not that. You do not control them; you are the problem, because when they arrive you do not control them, because when they arrive on our coasts you do not stop them. Italians, to date, still do not know who they can spend Christmas with, whether or not they can see their parents - we are still here to discuss this - and unlike the Italians, who are controlled everything, the irregular immigrant who comes to Italy, instead, is allowed everything. [[Applause]] The problem is you, not them. On the other hand, there is the simple equation: the less they leave, the less they die; just look at the data. It is almost embarrassing to be here to explain to people elected by the citizens - who should represent them - such an obviousness. Do we have to help them in their country? Yes. Can't we help them alone? Yes. Should we help them together with Europe? Yes. But you have to explain this to those who ruled with us, and when Matteo Salvini put all the measures in place with them - you forgot - to block the landings, he asked the Ministers 5 Stars to help him on the return front, to help him talk with the other States, but they didn't care, because the real question is that the left, like the Movimento 5 Stars, uses this as a bulwark, as a flag, but he doesn't care about neither the Italians, nor who really escapes from a war. [[Applause]] When Salvini was Minister the humanitarian corridors were reopened; it was the one you paint as a monster who reopened them and brought here those who really escape from the war. [[Applause]] You didn't do it. Then there is all the risk of terrorism; should we also explain this? We also saw it with Nice. It is obvious that, as I said, we are the door of Europe: if we defend our borders, we defend Europe; if we do not defend them, we put at risk not only us, but the whole of Europe. There is a huge terrorism risk, do we want to deny it? Are we saying we're racist if we say that? I have heard several times that no terrorists could arrive with the landings; yet, the news sadly told us of the massacres that the terrorists, instead, made in Europe, passing through our country, that perhaps should apologize because it does not control its borders. It should require Europe to help us and apologize for this decree-law that is now voting in this House. [[Applause.]] There are signs that we send, and they are wrong, because what signal do we give by inviting everyone to come to us? A sign of goodness? It's fake goodness. We can't feed the Italians. In the course of your work in the Commission, you made hundreds and hundreds of amendments which spoke of closed categories, which have suffered up to 90% damage in their activities, if not more, and the answer was that those amendments could not be accepted because there is no money. Well, if there's no money for the Italians, where do you find the money to keep all of Africa? [[Applause.]] You want to find some tips to keep, maybe, the cooperatives friends; you don't care about the people who come here. You talk a lot and fill your mouth with the question of discrimination by sexual orientation. Colleagues, I ask you, however, if you care or have approved serious measures for all the girls who live in our country and suffer the imposed marriage or infibulation in our country. No, not that one! Because you care... [[Comments.]] It's useless for the Democratic Party exponent to put his hands in his hair! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Borgonzoni, address the presidency. Mr President, this is a serious matter. Here you fill your mouth in order to be able to give permission to everyone, in order to keep them from the cooperatives - as I said - maybe friends, but then you do not approve measures to protect those who come to our country, in Italy, and really needs to be protected. It is full of girls who still suffer, to date, the marriages imposed, in Italy, who at sixteen leave their studies, because they are obliged to do so and you do not care anything! [[Comments]] What are you talking about? But he's in! What are you talking about? Mr President, they do not know, and that is the proof.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u49	Senator Borgonzoni, finish your speech, because you're missing a handful of seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u50	[[Comments.]] Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall finish, but you call me back to those places! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quietly the Presidency protects everyone, as always. [[Comments.]] Senator Borgonzoni, finish the speech and address the Presidency. Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would like to ask a question, since the decree-law Salvini prevented so many people from dying in the sea that divides us from Africa and has protected the borders of our country and, therefore, the Italians. I therefore ask my colleagues, especially the 5 Star Movement, since they had voted for them: are you really willing to sell and sell us all for your chair? Please, colleagues, change your mind, because the future of the country is in your hands right now. Colleagues, change your mind, like someone already has. Come this way and vote against this measure, because the real shame is not who did it, but it is you who are selling us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u53	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Calderoli? Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked you to speak on the order of business, or rather on the order of the debate, because yesterday, when we set the order of business at the Conference of the Leaders, at least I was not aware - I heard this morning - of the fact that a ceremony will take place today, at 11 a.m., to which we were invited, I with the Vice Presidents and the Leaders, for the exchange of Christmas greetings. I therefore propose a suspension from 11 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. in order to allow us to participate in this event. I would remind you that Rule 92 of the Senate Rules of Procedure requires a speaker to speak in favour and one against on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u54	Thank you, Senator Calderoli. The Presidency was preparing to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u57	Senator Tosato, I assume you'd like to speak in favour of the proposal. TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am against the proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u60	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am in favour of this proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u61	Let's say there's a certain dialectic in the League Group. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u64	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Santangelo? [[Comments.]] Wait a minute, colleagues. It is very clear, but when it is required to intervene on the order of business, as Senator Calderoli has done before, it is asked what. This is also the case when you ask to intervene. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the request made by Senator Calderoli. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u65	One speaker may speak in favour and one against. Of the League, within which there is a lively dialectic, one speaker spoke in favour and one against.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u66	Therefore, Senator Santangelo, if you wish to speak on the order of business, I ask you what. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, it is clear that I am speaking on the order of business, given this request for suspension. I believe that attitudes that can be a source of delay in parliamentary work... [[Comments.]] Mr. President, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u67	As, pursuant to Rule 92 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, this request can be made and put to the vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u68	[[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u71	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask you to check the quorum. From now on we are in the process of voting, so let us proceed to the support of twelve senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u73	About what, Senator Licheri?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u74	[[Protests.]] LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. You cannot interrupt your work in this indiscriminate manner. [[Applause]] Here there is no will to work. This is not a way of interpreting the role of a Member of Parliament. The MEP must finalise everything he does to accomplish his task. [[Comments.]] We don't have a chance right now... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u75	I inform you that the prescribed number of senators has been requested to verify the quorum. I call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Protests.]] The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.20 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed at 11.22 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote. TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u77	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) Wait, there are technical problems of non-functioning. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have been given reports, even at the end of last sitting. [[Comments]] No, no, no, that's not possible. There is a problem on the forum on the left: there is no connection. All right? No. I would ask the technicians to intervene. [[Comments]] Sorry, colleagues are here, but they cannot vote, because there is a malfunction in their station. I ask the technicians to confirm whether it works or not. I declare closed the quorum check. The Senate is not a quorum. [[Applause. Comments]] CHORO OF VOICES. Buffoons! Buffoons! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I suspend the sitting until 11:46 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.26 a.m. and resumed at 11.51 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote. TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We're asking for a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u81	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I simply intervene to welcome the majority back to work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u82	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u83	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the changes made by the Government to the security decrees we are debating today are the emblem of a majority in which the left has now conditioned the entire political direction and in which the Movimento 5 Stars has proved to be a flag that waves depending on the wind blowing from the right or from the left. [[Applause]] Before entering into the substance of the debate, I would like to start from two key points of my reflection. The first point is immigration, a very important topic for humanity, it is part of man's DNA and no one can ever stop it. Politics has the task of managing and regulating it so that it brings well-being to the people who live it and to the host countries and is what Matteo Salvini did with his decree-law. The second point is the following: migration policy, like the entire policy, cannot forget the data and numbers, which represent people and life stories; without numbers, political discussions run the risk of stopping at emotional perceptions, forgetting real politics. In the years before the so-called Salvini Decree-Law we cannot hide the great increase in landings, up to the peak of 180,000 registered in 2016; nor can we deny the more than 20,000 dead at sea. We cannot hide the high costs of the state for the reception system [[Applause]] that, before the Salvini Security Decree-Law, exceeded the 4 billion euros per year and that have deceived and abandoned to their destiny hundreds of thousands of young people, largely African, also recording several episodes in which the reception has turned into business. The Walk Free Foundation has evidenced how, according to the global slavery index, in Italy there are more than 145,000 people in conditions close to slavery; and immediately I think of those migrants, and not only, because today even the Italians run this risk. Victims of the boss and trafficking in prostitution. Many are attracted to our country with the illusion of a better life for the too many wrong signals of a bad migration policy of the left. [[Applause]] The so-called Salvini decrees were able to respond promptly to the continuous landings on the coasts of the Mediterranean and gave a clear signal to all the countries of origin. The system of international protection is not a channel of economic immigration, but an emerging way of arrival that generates the temporary status of asylum seeker, starting from an asylum application. A serious policy must distinguish economic immigration from the right of asylum and differentiate the channels of entry to ensure protection for those who really need it [[Applause]] , waiting for conflicts in the country of origin to cease and to ensure that those who arrive in Italy can live a dignified life from the economic point of view. The left, first with the Governments of the past legislatures and now with the Government Conte bis, wants to distort the system of international protection with additional forms of protection specifically generic and with the transformation of humanitarian protection into a work permit, instead of engaging in foreign policy to conclude agreements with the countries of origin in order to apply the law that regulates regular immigration in Italy, therefore through a possible extension of the decree quotas for immigration based on work, which is immigration of quality. This government would like to make the Mediterranean, the tunnel of death, the main channel of arrival in our country from Africa. I think it is deeply unfair that we should continue to give false hopes to millions of young Africans, who will risk their lives in the Mediterranean Sea for a totally uncertain future, rather than dealing with African countries in order to achieve conditions that really allow immigration to be transformed into a potential demand for the country. It is the numbers that say, ladies and gentlemen: 6 million irregular immigrants in Italy produce 9% of the country's GDP. This is the road on which our country must work to promote legal and safe channels, not those based on sanctions, on the sanatories of illegal immigrants and on the stabilisation of asylum seekers, who all too often abuse the instrument of asylum application to circumvent the immigration rules that policy does not know and does not want to apply or update. The rules do not exist to punish someone, but for the good of the community; politics has the responsibility of the common good, of the health and safety of the people. The so-called Salvini decrees, approved by the League, center-right and 5 Star Movement, had set strict rules to prevent further deaths at sea, to stop the landings of economic migrants and bring the international protection system to its original function. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the wind blowing from the left, the flag of the 5 Star Movement flies on the side of human traffickers, boatmen, cooperatives of the host business [[Applause]] , low-cost labour, on the part of an international protection system used to circumvent the existing rules on the granting of residence and work permits. It is still on the side of the precarious for life, in fact you will condemn thousands of asylum seekers to a life in lawlessness or on the margins of society. Dear colleagues, we are rewriting history. Yes, the ancient unhappy story against human dignity and I don't want to be an accomplice. Work is a serious and important thing, because it allows us to sustain the high cost of living in our country. For this reason, international agreements would be needed to promote legal channels, based on the encounter between demand and supply of real work, which would allow a free and dignified existence. The League hopes for an immigration based on work because it brings well-being and stability to the immigrant himself and wealth to our country. These changes will turn immigration into a cause of poverty and social exclusion. These changes will send a very dangerous message beyond the Mediterranean, that Africa will pay with thousands of illusions and broken lives, that Italy itself will pay in terms of security and public spending, especially at such a difficult time for the country. Dear colleagues, instead of approving these instrumental changes, aimed at bringing our country back to the bad migration policy put in place for most of the last legislature, I ask you to withdraw this decree-law, mother of a bad migration policy not worthy of a civil country, focusing on three points that I consider fundamental: promotion of immigration based on work, as a necessary condition for a free and dignified existence of immigrants in Italy and contrast to illegal immigration; a foreign policy that can find agreements on economic cooperation, assisted returns and regular entry with the countries of main origin, in connection with the needs of our labour market; finally, an asylum system that instead of being the main channel of immigration without any... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u84	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u85	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...without any guarantee for the future of migrants, can truly welcome those who flee from situations of conflict or real persecution, even through the humanitarian channel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u86	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the leader of the Lega Group in the Budget Committee, I would like to use this time to inform my colleagues in the other Commissions that we are, or rather you are approving a measure with obvious aspects of honesty, where the text has passed into the Budget Committee as a 'non-payable' measure. [[Applause]] Yes, that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a short time for haste, for things to continue, and very important points have not been taken into account. I will mention only a few points in particular of the opinion proposed by the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group in the Committee on Budgetary Control, and also deposited in the Commission on the substance. I read them. With specific reference to article 4, paragraph 1, letter b), number 2, regarding the transfer to the reception system structures of the applicants, following the preliminary activities of assistance, and to letter c) of the same paragraph, which affirms the necessity that the ordinary government centers and the extraordinary centers are characterized by adequate sanitary standards, specifying also which are the services that must be insured within the aforementioned centers, different are the critical remarks, which seems the case to raise, to the quantification of the burdens present in the technical report. On the one hand, the criteria are not explicit, which set at 7% the estimate of the higher costs related to the new services of teaching the Italian language, of orientation to the territory and of psychological assistance recognized by the provision in question - all for free, my lords - on the other hand, to define the audience of potential beneficiaries, for the purpose of quantifying the costs of the measure, have been used as a parameter the data of 2019, determining a figure of 83,226 average daily guests, which appears decidedly underestimated in view of the previous historical series, the fact that the data of 2019-2020 serve the effects of restrictive policies contained precisely in the decrees that are intended to modify in an extensive sense with the measure under consideration [[Applause]] and that such extensions will determine with absolute certainty an incentive effect of the phenomenon. Just consider the theme of family reunions. In fact, it does not seem clear how the greater burden of 12.8 million euros deriving from these provisions can be covered by the appropriations present in the budget, which should not present free resources, also in view of the fact that the recent decree-ristori bis decree and the decree-ristori cc decree provide for a reduction own of the sums entered in the state of forecast of the Ministry of the Interior relative to the activation, the lease and the management of the centers of detention and reception for irregular foreigners of 170 million euros for the year 2020, therefore in complete contradiction. To confirm the above, it is also evident that the Government itself, in the draft budget law 2021, has foreseen an annual increase of 100 million euros of the resources allocated to the National Fund for Asylum Policies and Services and related interventions, including those implemented in accession to the programmes and projects of the European Union under co-financing scheme, implicitly confirming that the provisions contained in this measure, in spite of the presence of the clause of financial invariance referred to in Article 14, are absolutely suitable to determine new and greater burdens for public finance. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Something has been voted on in the budget committee, which has absolutely not been noted. [[Applause]] , or rather, we noticed it and brought it to the attention of our colleagues, but there was no way. I am very bitter, ladies and gentlemen, because, with your low-policy logics, you are destroying all the laws made with difficulty and the regulations in force. We have also seen it today, with the Minutes of the sitting: you have voted in favour of a report, which in my opinion makes no sense. The filming is clear and I've seen it several times. But you vote for everything, you shut your nose and vote for anything to go on with this mess. You guys really feel like you're an accomplice. You are complicit in the trafficking of human beings and the deaths at sea. Feel as an accomplice! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u88	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u89	Mr President, at the end of the year, we are in the midst of a world pandemic and you, ladies and gentlemen, are bringing an urgent decree to the House, thinking of illegal immigrants. Aren't you ashamed of this? Return to Italy, return to the country! I wonder what the Italians have done to you. Colleagues, what have they done to you? [[Applause]] No more reading the papers. As happens to me, surely the citizens are writing to you to know what they can do at Christmas. Unfortunately there are no more people, there are shops that will not reopen, there are families in difficulty, but you think of illegal immigrants. But aren't you ashamed? You really should be ashamed of yourself! I also hear that the measure does not cost. I wonder how it is possible if you want to take Africa to Italy and give psychological assistance to immigrants. For the regular ones it's all right, let's help them, but why don't we give assistance to the elderly, children and Italians, who are currently suffering for Covid? [[Applause]] Why don't you? Why? However, I noticed that, twice, you did not have the numbers in this House. Twice! That means that, all things considered, you don't want to come here for that either. It's just a party order to stay tied to the chairs. It is all here the decree-law and this is your only reason for urgency. When we occupied yesterday, even with energy, the benches of the Government, we did so to let the Italians know that we are on their side. If we occupied those benches, we did it because we put our heart in those benches for our land. The difference between us and you, colleagues, is that we get up in the morning and think of our citizens, while you get up in the morning and think of foreigners. That's the difference in DNA between us and you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u90	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the general debate in progress, which began yesterday, is quite interesting because we are talking about many technical, legal and economic aspects of the previous security decrees and the new one. Some of the things that have emerged are very interesting. For example, some of our colleagues in the majority yesterday made us think about the concept of shipwreck, that is, the one who sails from the port with his shipwreck, has a difficulty or an accident and it is right that it be rescued. However, we are not talking about this situation. In fact, we speak of a trafficker who puts himself at the helm of a boat not suitable to face the sea for the route he embarks on, knowing that he will face some difficulties, but having ready the satellite phone to call complacent friends and tell them: help me to carry the goods and to make the last route (clearly by goods means human beings). It starts from the northern coast of Africa with the clear intention of committing two crimes: trafficking in human beings, on the one hand, and illegal immigration on the other. I do not see how the conventions on the right of the sea and navigation can justify this. Let me say that this is not the case either, because the point is political. Africa has about 1,300 million inhabitants. We are not talking here about helping a certain or determinable number of citizens fleeing from a country in difficulty for a war or some other calamitous event; we are talking about welcoming a potentially indefinite number of people into your project without limits. This is a violation, first of all - but not only - of sovereignist principles and identity. I repeat that the identity of a people exists and must be protected because it is part of the social pact and the security that binds the State to its citizens. Security must be guaranteed. In the name of supposed ideals or economic interests, as many of my colleagues of the League have pointed out these days, it cannot tolerate the indiscriminate reception, which is not welcome, but, as Senator Pucciarelli pointed out at the beginning of the session, it translates into crowding human beings, counting on being able to use public money to feed a machine of exploitation. [[Applause]] It is regrettable that some members of the government have only come out to ensure the legal number (it is scandalous that they have been missing twice, but it is in your interest and not in ours that there is). Some members of the government, during some interviews in the past years, spoke of arms for agriculture and competitive labor costs. Colleagues, exploitation has no skin color; it is exploitation of human beings. It is a species that anti-racists, anti-fascists and anti-fascists are the first to encourage immigration in order to have cheap labour. Ridiculous! [[Applause]] Today, during the suspension of the session due to your absence, we were apostrophated by someone (I don't remember who, but it's not relevant) as fascists. This word has been spoken at our Group's address and it has made me think a lot about it. I know very well that most of the members of the majority - indeed, perhaps all of them - have the title of anti-fascist. Well, why are you so against fascism? What don't you like? Probably indicated in the Fascist who violates the freedoms and fundamental principles guaranteed by the Constitution. I am thinking of the first 12 articles of the Constitution and also of civil liberties, of voting, of being elected, of assembly, of circulation, of association and - not least - of worship. But who said that, for this year, Christmas Mass can be renounced is not a representative of the League or center-right, but a minister of your present government. Of course the pandemic and the medical emergency are there. Let's discuss who, in the last ten years, has cut down on hospital posts and funding to the regions that were supposed to provide services. If the constituent Fathers, who also came from the experience of the Spanish shortly after the First World War, did not foresee a state of emergency by epidemic, perhaps there is a reason. The only state of emergency provided for in the Constitution by a particular procedure is that in the event of war, which must be declared by the Chambers and then by the President of the Republic, but it is not foreseen for the pandemic. On the other hand, we are at the point where a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers violates the first 12 articles of the Constitution. You have taught me, arrived here in Parliament, what fascism is: it is not the historical one, but the technocratic one, which is currently represented and applied. [[Applause]] Here is a warning that was given to me by a local left-wing exponent many years ago, when I was a militant of the League, to a gazebo: check on Google Maps - especially those who are very technologically advanced - where Piazzale Loreto is located in Milan, because that is not a symbol of fascism, but of revenge against those who violate personal freedoms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u92	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u93	Mr President, I confess that I have a little difficulty talking about this issue this morning, because it is difficult to talk about things that are obvious, especially knowing that listeners do not listen or are deaf or do not want to listen. It is quite clear, in fact, that this is a measure that has neither head nor tail and is within a logic that is not that of the facts, but that of the manifest provision, which, however - as my previous colleagues said very well - in this case comes into the merit of some events that pertain to civil coexistence and the state's order. With regard to all this, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I have a certain difficulty, because it is not possible to explain in words and with verifiable concepts in the facts that from here on, that is, after its approval, the whole matter relating to the provision will be regulated by meteorology; so it will be, in fact, since the flows will be regulated by the beautiful weather, the beautiful sea and the weather conditions. When and if the sea allows it, in Italy there will be an infinite number of people, without any kind of regulation; they will be able to declare anything and, by virtue of that declaration, will be protected, hosted and maintained, but never integrated. Let me give you an example: you have included in the measure the reason for discrimination for sexual orientation; then you will see that there will be a proliferation of distinctions on your sexual orientation. And how will you verify whether the statement will respond to the truth or whether it will be made only to have the opportunity to be hosted? How will you verify it? Will you have subjects who will lend themselves to this purpose? Will you be able to verify this statement, such as that of coming from countries in war, where civil liberties are denied? I mean, compared to all this, it's really hard to even talk about it. The problem is the size of the phenomenon, as has been noted. Our prisons are 70% occupied by non-EU citizens, most of whom are in prison because they are involved in drug trafficking. As Mr Malan explained very well before me, most of the crimes of violence against women are committed by non-EU citizens. It's useless for you to shake your head, like the little dog who used to be behind the car (remember?). It is useless for you to shake your head: it is the reality of the facts. [[Applause]] I have difficulty even talking about it; in fact I stop here and use the remaining six minutes to talk about two themes that in these days commit everyday life. Today, December 18, Italy does not know what will and will have to do on Christmas Day. Even here it's useless for you to shake your head like a puppy, because maybe we consider this subject obvious, we've been talking about it for days and we can't take it anymore, but out of here normal people want to know what to do on Christmas Day, in six days. And people do not want to know only to open the panettone; economic activities must know, restaurateurs must know, who must know whether to do the shopping or not (as has already been said). But do you live on the moon or stand on the ground so that you can judge what happens outside of here? We are hostage, Italy is hostage to your domestic begas. Yesterday you tried to hold a meeting, the friends of Italia Viva put their conditions and decided to see you tomorrow. Christmas is hostage to your insiders. I don't know if you have the size of your inadequacy, because this is the reality of the facts; it's useless that we keep going around. It is not the majority, that does not exist, that is hostage to Renzi. No, it is Italy that is hostage to Renzi, it is Christmas that is hostage to Renzi, despite Renzi. Then there is the story of fishermen. I closed my speech the day before yesterday with a wish that was then revealed in the absolutely perfect timing. I wanted to be able to allow our fishermen to spend Christmas with their family members and the case (not I of course) determined that the day after the fishermen could reunite with their family members, that is to say, to go back on their means improperly seized and return to Italy. However, ladies and gentlemen, the matter must be considered in a number of respects. We had the Premier and the Minister of Foreign Affairs who rushed to get on a plane to go free our fishermen - hello! - for the benefit of cameras, with Casalino in advance, even with geolocation. All right, good, nice. [[Applause]] Then play with Italian citizens, who don't need to know what they can do at Christmas, but the Premier, instead of solving the beghe and sitting at Palazzo Chigi to try to solve the problems, takes the airplane and goes to honor General Haftar, whom the Turks have treated from what he deserves. The Turks told him: "Or free my patrol boats, or in four days I'll pick them up," and he hastened to release the Turks' patrol boats. Instead we went to pay the price, to pay the pledge. We recognized institutional importance to a poor cheap general and did it for the benefit of a camera, as if that was not enough. Shame, shame! After 107 days. Shame! I don't know how many times I should say shame. Then they'd stay home! They were at home, Count and Di Maio! They were at home solving the problems of Italians, waiting to understand what they have to do in six days, on Christmas Day! You are the worst government in the country at the worst time in Italy! Make it count and pay the price for everything you're doing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u94	I have the floor for the suspension of the sitting to proceed with the House's sanitisation. The sitting will resume at 1.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.30 a.m. and resumed at 13.30 a.m.) He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u95	Mr President, I do not hide a certain embarrassment in speaking today, because, on the one hand, I see that a measure that the majority calls so important has never seen, during the whole debate - which is, moreover, scarce and scarce - in the Commission, the presence of Mr Lamorgese. And yet, technically, he's in charge of his ministry. We had the company of Deputy Minister Mauri, who I followed also during the proceedings of the Chamber, and that, I have to be honest - I tell you without any personal animosity and without polemic vis - I do not think he was able to give adequate answers to the questions that have been asked both to the House, and to the Senate. On the substance of the measure, I would like to recall perhaps the only thing that came out of the lack of discussion in the Commission, namely the fact that the measure under consideration has a vein of unconstitutionality - it is not I who say so, but of the magistrates, so perhaps this element should have been taken into account - in the face of the appeals to the letter of the President of the Republic, which, moreover, had made very different calls, but in August 2019, if I am not mistaken. Today we intervene with a decree-law, a measure that technically must respond to an urgency that, in fact, however, is not there, because, if it is so urgent to go and act on two moments indicated by the President of the Republic in August 2019, there is obviously some problem. By entering into the substance of the discussion on the decree-law, it was discussed in particular whether it was appropriate or inappropriate. One of the issues that came up in the debate was whether or not there were potential terrorists inside those barchins or boats using these canals, these corridors of the sea and these human trafficking in order to get into European territory and then do what we have unfortunately seen in so many European capitals. I refer to a sentence of Senator De Petris, who asked who established that in those boats that have welcomed and saved people, shipwrecked and refugees there are extremes to constitute a danger to our country. This sentence was also in the statement on the preliminary ruling proposed by the Mixed Group, precisely as regards the fact that technically there should be no danger within those boats. [[Applause]] , which was clearly denied. I believe that the majority should make a sound examination of conscience, because obviously the inadequacy of the action and of the people who act in this area is now evident. On the other hand, it has also been reported by one member of the majority - I am referring in particular to President Parrini - who, in the discussion on the security decree-law at the time of the previous Government - defined the Deputy Minister of the time, namely the current Foreign Minister Di Maio, one who does not count for anything. Again, I quote the shorthand report. Given that I do not have much time, I would like to put some members of the majority in front of some positions that have changed radically. I remember when someone, about the intervention on the security and security-a decrees, said: "Because of this left, salutary and carefree, it has come to create an unsustainable situation." The pneumatic vacuum is exactly the void left by your policy, the void in which lawlessness prospered. Not to mention the shameful and inhumane conditions in which those who say they have immigrants at heart forced them to live as beasts in cages. This was Senator Maiorino about... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u96	Proceed; meanwhile, we are verifying something important.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u97	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. I see that my speech is not so important, as is the debate in Parliament, of course. I take note of that. At this point, I conclude not so much with a reference to the fantasy policy that obviously this majority continues to carry on, but asking for respect not for the Italian people, because we have also seen so much with these norms that you did not have it, but, for example, for people like Andrei, who had political asylum and escaped from the Iron Curtain. I ask you to do something about... president. You have to finish your speech, Senator. It has already gone more than forty seconds beyond the expected time. PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Seen and considered I don't have time... president. It's not my fault. PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...I ask you to put a hand on your conscience. Forget this decree-law, because it will do more harm to you than to all the Italian people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u98	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u99	Mr President, I would like to take up a speech which I started almost two years ago in this House. Talking about immigration presupposes a new discipline of legal entry into our country. I must say to the rapporteur, Senator Valente, that in her speech she supported the need to integrate the rules that are being adopted today and that will see my vote against. I must appreciate your speech, although I believe that we must all calibrate a new figure of parliamentarians, because in recent times we no longer have a clash of ideological visions of ideas, nor a confrontation of arguments but the need of some to carry forward and affirm their idea as the only possible one. The way in which we participate in the parliamentary debate also has a democratic significance. In 2008-2011, with the last Berlusconi Government, I never verified the possibility of putting the question of trust before the general discussion: it was not possible. In the last two legislatures we have also seen this, including the current measure. There is no written rule, but the rule is that you can't ignore the comparison, if you believe in it and if you believe that our function is not to affirm the ideas of your group, but to verify the possibility of meeting those of your group and others, in order to find the right solution that in the treaties of constitutional law is indicated as the compromise between the opposing needs and the different positions. A high compromise, not an iniqucio, not a realization of the parliamentary function. Well, I think we should perhaps take a course of parliamentary law and participation in the democratic life of our country. [[Applause.]] Otherwise, it is absolutely impossible to live in a parliamentary system. I was also a victim, a few months ago, as President of the Commission, who was contentious: there were some groups that did not want that Commission to decide; as if there were the possibility of the judicial function being carried out according to their own political ideas. It's a denial of right. The rule of law is founded on the distribution of the new aid that Europe will give to countries with the rule of law, which means that the judicial function can never be succubated or conditioned by its own political ideas. If that were the case, it would be the end of the world. At a time when a judge, who performs the judicial function, disregards this truth, is altering the institutional relationship between legislative and judicial. This is very serious. I didn't answer, not even when they put a lie around, saying that we got together at night. We had a session from 3:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. for almost nine hours. It had to be said in that moment that it wasn't like that. You know I always answer and make immediate statements, but at that time I was a judge and not a senator. You cannot understand the difference that must exist between your own political vision and the general interest, the foundation of the rule of law. So how can you not realize that talking about immigration means defining first of all what is the system that guarantees legal access to our country? The so-called Bossi-Fini is not: it does not work, it must be corrected and rewritten, because today we must take into account a new situation of migratory flows, which also comes from the current pandemic. Not indifferent social inequalities are taking place not only in the countries of Africa, but also in southern Europe; citizens who were poor become poorer. It is necessary then to rebalance not through magic wands, but through the realization of an idea, discussing how to achieve it. Perhaps, from 2008 to 2011, we were deluded to have solved the problem. Certainly the line adopted by our state was correct with the investments made in the center of Africa and Nigeria and with the realization in Libya of the famous highway. In fact, it was necessary to create a need for employment and opportunities for growth in order to reduce the strength of the migratory flow to our country, the door of Europe. Therefore, with this awareness, we should think of a law of legal entry, which means nothing more than to verify the possibility of acceptance, because, beyond the real possibility of acceptance, there can be no legal entry. It is not a question of helping; aid is given on the spot, working together to ensure that there is a European initiative, as well as Italy, to ensure that the minimum conditions of existence are fulfilled there. At the same time, we must make a report at European level. The distribution in our country also presupposes one among the European States of the effects of immigration. If we do not realize this, Senator Valente, we will simply have a law like the one we examine today, which is nothing more than a correction, because you want to pretend it is open. Look, this law will only give an illusory opening in the newspapers. The citizens of the African countries will understand only one thing: in Italy Bengodi opened, because there is the possibility to go again. On Saturday nights they watch television shows and think that in Italy everything is like this. Do you realize what the consequences of this will be when they arrive in our country, with a difficult economic situation, determined by the pandemic, so there will be no chance of employment? Of all the necessary activities that our country should set up, nothing can be seen. In conclusion, Mr President, I just want to say one thing: as long as there is time, let us all try again to behave according to the rules that our Constitution demands of each of us, so that the parliamentary function is carried out not in the interests of a party or personal, but in the general interest of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u100	Senator Riccardi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u101	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I personally feel quite uncomfortable seeing Parliament engaged in this issue at a time when contingency and reality would suggest, instead, concentrating every resource, every single effort, to help the country lay the foundations for an economic and social recovery that must be important and above all well structured. I believe it is necessary in advance to remove any doubts from a concept that someone has tried to misguidedly pass: on this side of the hemicycle there are no women and insensitive men, they do not sit monsters indifferent to pain or difficulties; on this side, they simply sit women and men who put the security of Italy and Italian citizens always and in any case in the first place. [[Applause]] The goal of the 5 Star Movement is to arrive at zero landings within the next five years. Immigration is the biggest failure of the parties: they have signed suicide agreements that have transformed Italy into the refugee camp of Europe and forgave the business of organized crime. [[Applause.]] Those just quoted are not my words. It was with phrases of this tenor that was accompanied, in 2017, the immigration program of one of the parties of the majority: well representative phrases of a concept taken more analytically from point 8 of the 2018 electoral program of that same political movement. It seems clear what was the line to follow in the matter of migration and, to be honest, it must be recognized that, in the months following the general elections, it had been translated, in fact, with the birth of the decrees-security law, strongly wanted by the then Interior Minister Salvini and by the political forces that supported that Government. The sharing on the topic existed and is proven by the numerous audio, video and social statements or by press release by some of the personalities who worked most for that legislative project, aimed at expressing a harsh opposition to the indiscriminate reception, which was labeled as something never to have to see again in our country. There were those who, strong of a role as political leader, at that time called his colleagues to order, thundering that the Movimento 5 Stars was pro decree security [[Applause]] If there are any uncomfortable members of the majority on the security decree, it must be remembered that it is part of a majority that voted for it, of a government that is applying it, that we support it and that those who take part, at this moment, in this boutade, take part in a political boutade, to make a little 'left feel who with the left no longer has anything to do with it. It is the same person who, in the last legislature, in times not so suspicious, had not been hesitant in defining NGOs the taxis of the Mediterranean [[Applause]] , adding: "Who says it is inappropriate to attack them pretends not to see the immigration business". These are the same NGOs that today, with the measure under consideration, are lightening the possible sanctions they might incur, in the event of a possible illegality. Then there are those who, precisely in the last days, have shown us that they have absolutely no more memory of that period, but that at the time, on a television host, so defended, with pride and firmness, the paternity and the goodness of their work: In 2018, only thanks to seven months of the Government of change, less 90 percent of landings in Italy. Do you know what that means? A lot less dead. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u102	I would ask colleagues not to disturb the speaker and to take a seat in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u103	RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). If I wasn't there, the League didn't do anything. (...) I am responsible for the safety of navigation, until the docking of the boat at the port. He is then responsible for the safety of the landing and public order. If these two elements and these two policies were not integrated, there would have been this 90% less. So let's start by saying that it's thanks to the good work of two political forces, clear and consistent, that they take the results home. In this interview, he referred to two clear and coherent political forces. Today, however, two years later, history tells us that only one of these two political forces has remained so: the League. [[Applause]] You see, Mr President, it is peaceful that there is nothing illegal or wrong with the words I mentioned above, or rather anything else: they are words that I shared at the time and I share today, words shared by the vast majority of Italian citizens, words that praised the security decrees simply because they were really measures that, regardless of any retro-thinking and political color, have made Italy a better and safer country where to live. As a member of the Senate's Parliamentary Election and Immunity Council, I have always made my position on the subject clear to everyone... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u104	Please conclude, Senator Riccardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u105	RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is a position that has never changed. It was that two years ago, when my reference group was another, and it remained the same today, that I am part of the League Group. This is because, on some sensitive, important and indispensable issues, judgment cannot vary only on the basis of the wind blowing at a given political moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We should never forget that we are all here representing Italian citizens, who today ask us for support, prospects and future, not to use our time and resources to destroy measures that do good to Italy [[Recalls of the President]] , only because they bear the signature of a political opponent or only for the interests of this or that party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u106	Senator Romeo, I saw your impatience. I'm giving everyone an extra minute, but please hold on and use more courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u107	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to clear the field from two objections to this decree-law, which, on the one hand, challenge its urgency and, on the other hand, accuse it of being motivated by a spirit of revenge. The fact that there are different political and cultural approaches to immigration between the forces of government and opposition is beyond doubt, but this should not lead to ideological opposition, since immigration is a serious and complex issue, which must be addressed accordingly. What were the two security decrees intended by former Minister Salvini? Directly, to combat the landings of immigrants through strict control of the ports, to promote the repatriation of irregular immigrants and to combat the trafficking of human beings. Indirectly, start the process of amending the agreements contained in the Dublin Convention and demand a fairer distribution of migrants within the EU area. I do not want to dwell here on the profound social and cultural lacerations produced in Italy due to a certain arrogance in the current rejections, nor on the consequent isolation of our country in the European context. I would just like to mention the internal debate on the Movimento 5 Stars, which is a matter of perplexity and opposition to the measures in question. They were measures on which, however, there were pacts, the famous government contract. I remember the tearing debates and the sacrifice that many of my friends of the Movimento 5 Stars had to endure to approve this decree-law. However, it was a useless sacrifice, because, just a month later, the result was obtained, the former minister Salvini tore up that government contract, causing the crisis. If the intent of the two decrees was to prevent landings and regularize immigration, they have completely failed the objective. The landings of illegal immigrants and the deaths at sea, although contained in numbers compared to the past, are still a living scourge in our conscience, while the returns promised have not come. On the contrary, we have seen the dismantling of the reception and integration system. Not that there was no criticality and need for improvement, but the emphasis - yes, ideological - against the so-called welcome business or the crusades against NGOs ended up throwing away, together with the dirty water, even the child. These professional experiences, which have grown over the years, guaranteeing the transition from the first reception to a path of social and work integration have been frustrated. The elimination of humanitarian protection has meant that asylum seekers, who previously had access to a form of protection, i.e. a residence permit indispensable for an integration process, have gone to expand the basin of irregular migrants. This is what Senator Malan recognized this afternoon, albeit with different intentions. I think a deep reflection was born from here, even within the Movimento 5 Stars, which led to the current provision. It is before everyone's eyes that the ordinary system and extraordinary care centres managed by prefectures transformed into dormitories have been distorted, where asylum seekers await the outcome of their application for international protection: an empty time course, which can last a year or more, in which immigrants are excluded from inclusion and work paths. Cancellation of the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR), reduction of extraordinary reception centres (CAS) to a sort of bed and breakfast containers, reduction of professional figures devoted to the integration and cutting of working hours of psychologists, language mediators and social workers have produced an army of invisible immigrants, without documents and ready to be exploited. With this decree immigration and international protection, instead, the Government proposes, in a framework of renewed harmony with the European partners - which, paradoxically, I must say is born also because of the pandemic - to heal some obvious criticalities that are made and not ideologies. That this social and cultural backwardness should be reduced and corrected, so the facts tell us. With the decree-law on immigration and international protection at our examination, the levels of humanitarian protection for migrants arriving in Italy from countries considered dangerous, where wars or persecutions are taking place, and the system of reception and integration (SAI) is re-introduced, a model that tends to trace that of SPRAR, reintroducing the possibility for asylum seekers to access the paths of the second reception, in an inclusive perspective and recalling the previous virtuous model of reception. These are important premises, ladies and gentlemen, but not yet sufficient. It will be necessary to define in detail the new race chapters: costs and services to be provided in extraordinary reception centres and in government ones. Only by reviewing these chapters in a substantial way will it be possible to bring the small managers and their professionalism to take care of the widespread reception. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd pray to let the hemicycle go. Thank you, Senator Commissioner. MARILOTTI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). The phenomenon of migration, however, cannot be managed only by decree-laws, but must be accompanied by a far-sighted international policy. Italy, which occupies the center of the Mediterranean, cannot remain an inert spectator in front of what is happening in Africa, in the Middle and Near East. We would delude ourselves if we were to manage the phenomenon with purely internal measures. We need a stronger foreign policy, capable of transforming our international missions from interposition contingents aimed at ensuring the stability of conflicts or the training of local law enforcement forces in order to prevent them and contain them in broader actions. Without the Italian impetus, the European Union will continue to turn its back on this fundamental area of the world, neglecting the Euro-Mediterranean policies that so many expectations had raised between the two shores of the Mediterranean. Other forces are filling the absence not only of us, but of Europe: China and its growing political and economic influence on the African continent; Turkey with its neo-Ottoman dream; Russia, on the Middle East side; Saudi Arabia, with the dream of the great caliphate; Israel, with its plan to complete the Zionist State with the progressive annexation of the entire Palestine. All this is producing new winds of war in the area, certainly not irrelevant compared to the resumption of the new and more substantial migratory flows, of which Italy will be the first to suffer the consequences for its geographical position. We need not only to think, but to implement as soon as possible a European immigration agency with operational offices in Africa for the better management of the phenomenon, both in humanitarian corridors and in return policy. We need to think of active immigration policies, through increased contributions to development cooperation, including by protecting our entrepreneurs who maintain trade relations with Africa and who can create opportunities for trade and growth. Investment in culture and training is needed. At the same time - I close with this note - it does not make us hope for the closure of the Italian school of Asmara, the most prestigious of the Horn of Africa. Our educational network abroad has almost been dismantled; we need to change direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, while Italy is on its knees, while hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs are desperate, while 5 and a half million Italians have fallen below the poverty line and the queues for a hot meal stretch out of proportion, the Government and this artificial and cloaking majority are no better than dealing with immigration. And not to deal with the worrying increase in landings, passed from about 10,000 last year to over 30,000 this year, with serious consequences not only of public order and security or of greater burdens for public finances (in the face of your article 15 on the financial invariance of this decree), but also and above all of a health order, with the many outbreaks of contagion that around Italy migrants, the only ones who can move freely and do whatever they want, have provoked in these months (see Terzigno, Treviso, Fiuggi, Bolzano, etc.). [[Applause]] No, actually. On the contrary, you worry about opening even more doors to all the desperate in the world and among them, inevitably, even to adventurers and wrongdoers. With this decree-law you light a very powerful beacon to Africa.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u111	Colleagues of the League, please take your place and do not turn your back on the Presidency. Please, take your seats, what are you doing there? Balboni (FdI). Then we recover, Mr. President, don't we? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Take your seats, the hemicycle must please be free; the hemicycle, please, entirely free. Everyone take their seats. Of course, I'll make it up to you, Senator Balboni. Continue your interesting speech, please. Balboni (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. With this decree-law you light a very powerful beacon towards Africa and the whole of the Third World, to tell everyone: come as many as you can, Italy is ready to welcome you with open arms, without any limit. That's what you're saying with this decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u112	[[Applause]] Not only those who flee from war, as is right, but who represent only 5 percent of the total; no, just all. This is not the security decree, as you falsely defined it; this is the invasion decree. [[Applause]] With these rules can really enter and remain in Italy anyone who wants it. It will suffice to invoke any calamity, even of modest gravity, of which the world is obviously full: a summer too dry, a flood, a harvest gone bad or even that in your country you can not cure yourself as well as in Italy. That's what you expect. Or it will be enough to complain even the smallest wrong suffered in the Homeland, the smallest discrimination (true or much more often presumed) for the most disparate of reasons. You have even included sexual orientation and gender identity. It will suffice to declare oneself homosexual, as in fact already happens in many courts, unfortunately, and there will no longer be a need to prove it by this provision. It will be, in fact, sufficient, for your aberrant logic, gender identity, this smoky expression that, as is known, is an inner, transeunte, subjective, indemonstrated, indemonstrable and unverifiable state of mind. It will be enough, for example, to show up with stiletto heels and lipstick for men or with a male haircut for women and the game will be done. Or, again, you have foreseen, not only the need to treat serious pathologies, as already happens, but even from any psychophysical disease. Just attach a bit of depression, pathology that cannot be denied to anyone who knows what traverses he will have to tell, true or presumed who can ever say it, and the game will be done: inside another. But it is not enough: you have also introduced a provision banning rejection and expulsion - you hear well - whenever this entails a violation of the right to respect for your private and family life. What does that mean? You don't understand. It will be enough, perhaps, to complain about the risk of losing your girlfriend or even just a friend. But do you realize what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen? I would like to ask my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, who today will vote en masse to cancel even the little good they had done. You too have embraced the left-wing immigrant ideology. I understand Paris is worth a mass, but you are triggering a social bomb of unprecedented proportions. You are calling hundreds of thousands, millions of migrants in Italy, destined to compete for survival with the millions of Italians below the poverty line. And this is in the midst of the most serious economic crisis of the last century, with foreigners regularly climbing over Italians in all rankings: from home, to school, to social services. Foreigners who are even allowed access to free legal assistance at the expense of the State to appeal against the decrees of expulsion up to the Supreme Court; indeed, to repeat them even a second time, according to what you recognize him with this decree. According to you, for immigrants the decisions of the judiciary are not binding: for all Italians, yes, but for immigrants not. This is what is contained in this provision. [[Applause]] As if that were not enough, you have rejected the proposal of Brothers of Italy to set the threshold of 516 euros, which I remember being the minimum pension that belongs to the Italians. We have asked for this threshold to be set as an allowance for every migrant. But you said no. You give migrants 1200 euros a month Who knows why: perhaps to feed the business of assistance in the hands of those we know well? Dear colleagues on the left, that is the truth. Your friends' business is worth an invasion against the Italians for you. [[Applause]] And so that it is quite clear that no one has to put obstacles to the invasion, you have virtually zeroed the fines on the ships of NGOs that violate the prohibition of entry into our territorial waters, so that they can resume fully their ancillary role in favour of the hullers, collecting in the midst of the sea the painful load of humanity adrift, where these criminals, merchants of human lives, know they have to leave it, so that then the ships of NGOs can collect it and bring it to destination. Do you not understand that a whole fleet will not be enough to gather everyone and that the shipwrecked and the dead in the midst of the sea, instead of diminishing, will increase? And you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, will have all these announced deaths on your conscience: this must remain in the proceedings of today's debate. [[Applause]] The only way to avoid the deaths at sea is not to open the Italian ports; in truth it is not even to close them, because we saw that even the closure was not enough. As we of Brothers of Italy had warned, unheard, the only way was and remains the naval blockade: only by preventing departures will the dead in the middle of the Mediterranean be avoided. You say that the naval blockade would be an act of war: but what act of war, if there is not even a sovereign state in Libya? In any case, excuse me, if Prodi did so in 1998 with regard to Albania, why can't we do it today with regard to Libya? No one explains that to me. It would suffice the will to do so, a will which the Government does not have, as evidenced by the story of our fishermen, left for more than 100 days in the hands of a warlord who seized them with an act of piracy and in front of which the Government went to kneel yesterday to get them back home. [[Applause]] This is the government that you offer to the Italians on Christmas Eve, but I ask you to give a gift to the Italians: get out of the way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u113	Colleagues, I did not want to interrupt Senator Balboni, who was finishing his speech, who we were able to listen to with interest, but I will not allow the sitting to continue if you do not sit in your seats. [[Applause]] Everyone just sit down. I have a list of those who have distinguished themselves by occupation of the hemicycle and do not need to read it to you. From now on, I'm gonna stop the job, if the emicycle is occupied, whoever does it. So sit down and sit down, colleagues. He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, at last we are about to achieve - at least in part - one of the objectives that the majority set itself when it gave rise to the Conte-a government. As you know, it was one of the reasons why Free and Equal agreed to join the majority and support the Government. With the measure under discussion, therefore, we finally remedy the serious errors that Italy has committed with the decrees "insecurity" and the claim to be shielded in Europe, not with the force of arguments and politics, but on the shoulders of the shipwrecked, suspending the legal culture of our country, repudiating its history, denying its humanity. The President of the Republic made observations on those decrees, which he sent with a well-known letter to the Government and Parliament, especially in relation to the international obligations that our country must always honour and it is good that this provision seeks to sew and heal the unforgivable wounds in the moral and civil fabric of our community. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u115	I believe that Senator Grasso's intervention still deserves more attention, at least from the benches of the majority, but also from those of the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u116	You're welcome, Senator. Grasso (Misto-Leu). Thank you, Mr President, I hope you will allow me to make up for this time. No one, I said, is under any illusions, however, to resolve the complex issue of immigration by means of a decree. The Salvini decrees didn't do it, this decree doesn't do it in some respects too shy. We need patient work, and I think we need to focus our efforts on some essential issues. The first is the revision of the Dublin Regulation, of which we all know the importance. The second is certainly the memorandum with Libya, which I cannot fail to remember and which I think should be deleted. The third is the resumption and constant updating of the decrees flows. The fourth is the final overrun of the Bossi-Fini law. The fifth, no less important, is a new and more modern law on citizenship. With this text we are making very important progress, which required difficult synthesis work and the results of which were not at all obvious. However, I cannot fail to mention a point on which I would have liked a more courageous and determined majority. In these long and difficult months, non-governmental organizations have courageously pleaded for the dramatic inaction of the Community and national institutions, men and women who have put their energies and even their bodies at the disposal of a principle that is the basis of our legal culture and our society, that of humanity. Lives must always be saved, all of them. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u117	Let me talk. Please, Senator Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u118	Grasso (Misto-Leu). With their work, non-governmental organizations have ripped many people from certain death and suffered for each of those slipped from their hands by staying in the water. I remind all of us of the words of Gaspare Giarratano, owner of Sciacca who had serious problems for having saved shipwrecked with his fishing boat, but who never regretted having done so. These are his words: I wonder if only one of our politicians has ever heard in the dark of the night... of desperate cries of help. [[Applause. Comments.]] I, too, Senator Candiani, have been to Lampedusa. I have witnessed, as President of the Senate, the landing of 125 migrants on the Favaloro pier and I challenge you to look in the eyes of women, men and children trembling who have suffered unspeakable violence and seen their loved ones die. I dare you to call them invaders. [[Applause]] I also saw, after offering a hot tea by volunteers, that look of fear turn into a light of gratitude and hope, hope of survival. That is why I believe that the point is not to change the figures for the fines provided, but to honor those who save lives and return to the principle and spirit of the Constitution and to affirm once again and always the fundamental values of our community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u119	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u120	Mr President, we will finally vote on this measure, despite the constant provocations of these hours, and we will demonstrate the will of Parliament and the country to delete a shameful page, that of the so-called Salvini decrees-laws, and to delete the great lie that seeks to unload on migrants the right anger of those who do not have work, the difficulties of those who are precarious, intermittent, VAT numbers, craftsman, and fight every day, especially in this time of pandemic. You fed poison, like the crazy conspiracy theories about ethnic exchange, immigrationism. But reality is another and it is before everyone's eyes. The migration issue is an epochal fact and will not be stopped by any wall, because the causes that generate it are stronger than the walls, and they are failures such as wars and calamities, failures of a model of development often predatory for which we are responsible and which the West has imposed on the rest of the world. And it must be governed without ever derogating from the rule of law, from our democratic identity. Today we cancel the ignominy of decrees Salvini that have hindered the rescue of lives at sea, a sacred act since always, since our civilization exists, a virtuous and heroic act according to the laws of man and the code of the sea. You have criminalised volunteering that saves lives, such as NGOs, who through their meritorious action have made up for an obligation that belongs to the institutions. By criminalizing those who welcome, you have overturned our values and muddled the honour of Italy, feeding fear and xenophobia, mystifying and poisoning the public spirit. Those decrees-laws are in fact the symbol of deception to citizens, in particular the weakest, put against one another in a false representation; and they were the defiance of the Constitution in its most identity values, which were called into question. Those who imposed those decree-laws at all costs, making them the negative image of the first part of this legislature, wanted to call them "decree security," but with security they have never had anything to do; indeed, they have caused, at the opposite, chaos and illegality, because the cancellation of humanitarian protection, and at the same time the dismantling of the reception system and the integration network incardinated on the municipalities, has put in a condition of illegality and illegality, and therefore also of social danger, the vast majority of asylum seekers, out of all control and a system of social integration that we today, with this law, rebuild. The so-called Salvini decrees have reduced thousands of people in labour for black labour, for the caporalate, for organized crime - other than security - triggering so many social bombs in territories and cities, especially in the more complicated areas where there is more frustration and where it is more difficult to live. It is for this reason that the first hard opponents were the mayors, who tried to avoid its approval, and then immediately asked for its cancellation. This was also immediately our commitment, the commitment of the Democratic Party, first from the opposition and then as a condition for the formation of the new Government, as a clear and necessary discontinuity from the previous one. By rejecting the so-called Salvini decrees, we reject and eliminate the dangerous attempt to criminalize poverty by treating it as a matter of public order and not as a social issue; as if living in conditions of discomfort was a fault to be punished and not a distortion, a malfunction of the whole society. This law finally marks an extension of the rights with the introduction of the Institute of Special Protection, which will extend, strengthening, the previous norm, that of humanitarian protection, which had been hit by the Salvini decrees. This rule restores in its entirety one of the cornerstones of our Constitution, the right of asylum for those who see denied fundamental freedoms at home and strengthens it by returning to binding it to what comes from international obligations and treaties, as repeatedly, with a clear voice, recalled President Mattarella. We have a political and moral duty to delete wrong laws, not to be indifferent and immobile in the face of the tragedy of massacres in the Mediterranean. This law can be the basis of a new migration policy, which strengthens the role and credibility of Italy in the Mediterranean, which obtains a European migration policy, filing the Dublin Regulation, relaunching international cooperation with Africa, reactivation of humanitarian corridors and so-called decrees flows for economic emigration. This is in fact the most effective way to cut off traffickers who thrive on lawlessness and for this reason the so-called Bossi-Fini law must finally be deleted, which is not only wrong in ideology, but has never worked, so much so that the government of the right centre has recourse to two maxi sanatoria in recent years and that law still forces thousands of foreign workers, who could contribute to our development and to our pension and pension system, into irregularities. Mr President, we need to relaunch the reasons for Italy and the European Union, which was born precisely from the rejection of nationalism, barbed wire, genocide and concentration camps, oppression and racial discrimination. We cannot be helpless in the face of the loss of lives at sea and the violation of the rights of migrants in Libya, which are our own rights. They are massacres that will be remembered as an unforgivable fault and in front of which you can not say: "we did not know," because we know. Italy in 2013, with Operation Mare Nostrum, was able to demonstrate its moral and political strength and greatness, saving thousands of shipwrecks. Today, by effectively deleting the Salvini decrees, he regains honor and reputation. Today we return to work to build security in the only possible and lasting way through inclusion, integration, mutual recognition of rights and duties that cannot be denied and, after this, a law on citizenship will finally be needed to allow... [[Comments.]] Yes, colleagues, a law on citizenship that allows children [[Applause]] who attend our schools, friends and brothers of our children and grandchildren, to be able to say, once and for all, without being denied, Italians and no more foreigners. [[Applause. Comments.]] That's us. This is Italy: a political and economic power because it is loved, respected and recognized in the world for the strength of its rights and values, which you have tried to deny and muddle and which we reaffirm in this House today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u121	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a security decree-law just over a year after the adoption of a previous security decree-law. And the thing that makes a species is that this Government, at an emerging moment, in which problems certainly do not lack, has considered urgent to modify a measure that an important part of this majority, a year ago, had participated to realize. [[Applause]] I'll tell you more. The video of an interview by such a minister Toninelli is on the websites and on the social media. I thought, like most Italians, that the battle against illegal immigration was a battlehorse of Salvini and the League. No, Toninelli says it was his success. He says that if the blockade of illegal immigration took place, it was thanks to the Government of Change, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] Well, Toninelli has a problem of consistency, because when you approve this decree-law, and there will be, instead, uncontrolled immigration, he will have to say that the merit is of the Government of Restoration, what the Movimento 5 Stars did with the Democratic Party to maintain the armchair. [[Applause]] Friends of renewal, friends of change, if this is consistency, if this is the new, give us back the old; at least he was consistent with himself and would never contradict himself in such an obvious way as you are doing. There's another problem. You used in an instrumental way a reminder of the President of the Republic who, on the occasion of the launch of the first security decree-law, not to refer it to the examination of the Chambers, said that perhaps it was necessary to revise it in two points, only two points: the quantification of the administrative sanction and the causes of non-penalty. Well, you have used this recommendation of the President of the Republic as a staple to demolish what had been achieved. You have reinstated humanitarian protection, the restructuring of the reception system in small centres spread across the territory, a reduction of fines to NGOs and you have eliminated the seizure measure. Colleagues, there is a difference between the country you are creating and one of the most civilized countries, such as Germany. Let me give you an example: in Italy, in Carola Rackete, who forced a naval blockade and rammed our warships, we put a red carpet and sent it home. [[Applause]] In Germany, for the simple fact of having participated in a protest procession against the felling of trees was arrested. This is the seriousness of a civilized country; there are laws and laws must be respected. [[Applause.]] You are creating the conditions to make this country the Eldorado of illegal immigration. There are many critical issues. You lack a strategic vision; you have expanded the case files of the residence permit and have deleted the deadline set on November 30 to indicate the flow rates that Italy could support and support. You did not say a word - and I say a word - in a measure that in its title recalls illegal immigration, about the 600,000 illegal immigrants that cost our country 5 billion euros. [[Applause]] At a time when poverty has increased from 5 million to 5.5 million, we have lost 500,000 jobs, and next year we will lose 1 million, you worry about ensuring the immigrants who come here. [[Applause.]] And not always because they run from wars. You see, ladies and gentlemen, another thing that makes me like this is the reference to Article 10 of our Constitution, that is, to that article that says that anyone who runs away from a war and persecution has the right to be supported and accepted. (14.44) (VITAL FOLLOWS). Almost as if, you who are pursuing this irrational immigration policy, you are those who want to safeguard human rights and we are the ones who want to undermine them. Almost as if you want to save the desperate at sea and we want to drown them instead. [[Applause]] We are to save these desperate ones, but we are to save them by means of legislation that avoids putting them in the hands of the unscrupulous boatmen, as you are doing. [[Applause]] Nor is it appropriate to compare this migration with the Italian migration, which began in 1860, which lasted until 1961. Our ancestors have entered foreign countries on tiptoes, adapted, integrated, worked also doing humble and degrading work. These people come to Italy and, after being welcomed, it wants to impose us to renounce our traditions and our culture! [[Applause]] He wants to eliminate the crucifix from the schools, he does not want to allow us to be a crib and this is not a way to make hospitality. In the absence of a strategic policy, we want to encourage immigration, but the good one, that of intelligences and people who come to integrate and to do so must first recognize and accept our culture, our origins and our tradition; they must learn the Italian language and the history of our country. [[Applause]] Only in this way can an effective integration be said, which is not what you are practicing. The authority of our country in the European context has also changed a lot with this Government. A few months ago, Minister Lamorgese had come to the Senate to respond to an act of inspection union, exulting almost for an Agreement signed in Malta, which would allow the redistribution of immigrants throughout Europe. Of course, redistribution has been there, but only within our country, with burdens borne by municipalities and small territorial realities. [[Applause]] , to which you subtract resources and services, giving guarantees, which do not even have Italians, to non-EU countries. You undermine our compatriots and this is a responsibility that you will carry with you and that you will eventually give account to the Italian people. [[Applause]] These days I am rereading the biography of Winston Churchill and within this reading I found an episode, which I think lends itself very much to the period we are living. World War II had begun in 1940, things were not going well for England, and a Member, Mr Amery, addressed an invitation to the then British Prime Minister, Chamberlain, saying basically (and I say this to you): "you have occupied those seats for too long, for what little you have done for the country. It's time for you to resign." I am convinced that, as Chamberlain did, he accepted that invitation, sooner or later Prime Minister Conte will do the same. We shall vote no to yet another confidence in an unnecessary, unnecessary and absolutely non-lawful measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u123	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u124	Mr President, we have understood that this is the final capitulation, the unconditional surrender of the 5 Star Movement before the Democratic Party. And now we also know from Senator Verducci that, in the agreements of which their voters are not even aware, there is also the ius soli. [[Applause]] Bravo, congratulations! The next step that the country will face, when there is the most heavy economic crisis ever and the anxieties of the Italians are about their existence, is the ius soli. Congratulations! This is the final capitulation of the 5 Star Movement in the arms of the Democratic Party. We are really at the farce and it is incredible because, instead of asking a government that has enormous responsibilities in having reactivated the business of illegal immigrants and boatmen, with their terrible load of deaths, you today dismantle those same laws that, made by the League and by Matteo Salvini, Minister of the Interior, saved human lives preventing the boarding. Congratulations! [[Applause]] Paradoxically, today we come to vote here in the Senate after the trial you sent Salvini to Catania began to reveal what is the political matrix behind it, with the depositions of witnesses who will pass to history to be the most insignificant and insulting. [[Applause]] Good stuff! Today you undo those laws adopted in the interest of Italy and Italians and also of Europe itself, of which you say you are proud paladins, because, with these rules that you apply, dismantling the security decrees, you are transforming Italy in the refugee camp of Europe. As I said, this provision arises from a betrayal, which is a common denominator for the Movimento 5 Stars in the Government Count two: that of the turnarounds, of the renegade commitments and of the betrayals. It happened for the TAV: you took it all back. It happened for the TAP pipeline: you took it all back. It happened for the story Ilva: you took it all back. [[Applause]] It happened for Alitalia: you took it all back. It happened for Autostrade and for that Morandi bridge that reminds me of Senator Toninelli, whose name I don't even remember. [[Applause]] It happened to overcome the rule of the second mandate, of which you also forgot the meaning, and to the contrast to the hullers and illegal immigration, which was exactly in your electoral program. [[Applause]] You betray your commitments with the voters, but you also betray yourself with the approval of this provision in the Senate and the House. It is all the betrayal - and in this I have compassion - imposed by your ministers, who do not sit on the benches of the government and which oblige you today to vote against what you voted a year ago, without having the face to appear in this Chamber to disassemble what they themselves approved in the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] Where is the President of the Count Council, who is the first signatory to this "clandestine" bill? Where is Minister Lamorgese? Where's Bonafede? Where are Di Maio, Guerini, Hope, Patuanelli and Gualtieri? Where are they? All empty chairs. This is the fine example you set for the Italians. Congratulations! [[Applause]] Those who are sitting on those benches - that is, those who are not sitting there - are forcing you to renounce your dignity, to yourselves. This is what's happening in here today. Then there is another theme, that of the left that no longer remembers what the left is and that, with the vision blinded by hatred towards the political opponent, loses the sense of reality until going to set migration policies that will have only one goal, namely to reactivate the exploitation of illegal immigrants by the scafisti and bring to Italy people willing to work below cost compared to the Italians who no longer have the job. [[Applause]] This is what the left in Italy is doing today: forcing people to the subsidy; forcing people to be maintained and, for Italians who do not accept this regime, to leave. That's what you're doing. This is the radical chic left you must be proud of, but you can't run away from the ballot box. There'll be a response in there. You approve this law, you approve it against the Italians and the Italians that we will lead to the referendum to repeal this law will present the bill. [[Applause]] They will present it to this left who unconsciously hates everything that is Italian identity. Do you want to cancel the security decrees against Matteo Salvini? Do it! We are waiting for you in the urn and in there we will have our satisfaction, because we know that the Italians will make you take back what you are doing today, with the plate and the forks included. You are returning to make the same mistakes, those who had brought us to the streets the drug dealers; those who had filled the country with illegal criminals; those who brought people to Italy who then saw us go and make the attacks in other European countries. [[Applause]] You are still making the same mistakes and there is no debate in here that will make you understand it, because you have lost contact with reality. And the only thing that interests you today is to impose ideological visions, losing sight that today Italy is in the worst economic crisis ever, as I have already mentioned. It is the same paradox that prevented you from understanding when, at the beginning of the Covid pandemic, we said to close our borders. We told you to close the borders to China and you said no, that there was a racism alarm in Italy, there was not the problem of Covid and everyone to eat the rolls spring and to visit the classes of the Chinese in Italy. Congratulations! It is the same lucid vision that leads you today to modify these security decrees and to go to make decrees for the illegals. Congratulations! [[Applause]] The numbers condemn you, those published on the sites of the Viminale, those that tell us that there are 33,000 this year landed and that they were 11,000 last year. These are the numbers that condemn you. And what happens to all these people today? I went a few days ago, with Senator Pucciarelli, to see the situation in Lampedusa: one above the other, crowded, crushed, without dignity, without any chance to see respected those rights of which you then wash your mouth in here. But none of you went to Lampedusa to see what the effect of the decree you want to approve today with confidence, once immigrants land in Italy. You didn't go because you're afraid to look in the mirror and look at your reality. Stop. You're still in time. Don't give any more slaughter meat to the boatmen. You will soon find yourself responding to these responsibilities and then will not suffice the "I don't know," "I don't remember," "I wasn't there and, if I was there, I didn't understand, "I wasn't there and I don't remember," like the "Toninelli" forgetful. But what sadness the lie told to hide its inability to take responsibility! And how sad it is when this responsibility is that which the Italians ask to defend their country. [[Applause]] And in the meantime, where are the boatmen going? Where are you hiding them? You're hiding them in the covid shadow cone. There is no debate, there is no information in the press, there is nothing on the news. But we know that the 30,000, once they have been released from quarantine, are around Italy with a sheet of paper in their hand, where they are told to return to their country and those in their own country do not return and go underground. This is what you're doing, Senator De Petris, and it's the opposite of what someone said in here. This means putting people in hiding and then forcing them to end up in the arms of the organized underworld. You are once again filling the ranks of illegal immigrants and organised crime. This is another responsibility you cannot escape from. There is no doubt, Mr President, that today you are approving this amendment to the standard of security decrees for ideological hatred. I am not going to read about the substance where it is written several times and it was said that the ships, when they enter Italy, are seized. In the face of this there is no argument that I hold. In the face of this there is no argument that holds: you make an exquisitely ideological choice. [[Applause]] In conclusion, Mr President, I can only be stunned to see performances such as what was given here yesterday, in the Chamber, by the Government, with Minister D'Incà speaking before the general debate and imposes, even if the Vice-President of the House takes the floor, the question of trust. In view of this, we are here today to adopt a decree that has been transformed into a law without even a serious general discussion. It has no value to go and see the precedents, because the only thing that the precedents say is that today you, Movimento 5 Stars, with your minister D'Incà, are using the worst methods of the First Republic, those that put the gag to the opposition, those that impose trust, those that prevent any debate even by the majority. [[Applause]] We have not heard a word from the Movimento 5 Stars here today in this House. This is the embarrassment that nails you to your responsibilities. [[Applause]] You may betray yourself, but you will always pay the bill of betraying the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u125	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. [[Comments. You hear whistling sounds]] I ask Senators Quaestors and parliamentary assistants to proceed with the removal of any sign or banner. Please, Senator Quest, remove instead of pointing at me. There are seven or eight left, so I think it's possible. Senator De Poli, Senator Pepe, there's only a few left and we're done. Come on, just deliver the last ones. (You keep hearing whistling sounds.) When we're done with the signs, let's go to the whistle. I charge you to visit them. Let's finish with these signs. Come on, Senator Pergreffi, turn yourself in. We're done with the signs. Now we're not starting again. Listen: my intention is not to suspend the session and to continue, hoping that once or the other Christian Militello will notice us, because I see that we never went to "Strand the banner." Maybe you had to make some mistakes. (You keep hearing whistling sounds.) At the end of the day, you get tired. Take your breath, please. The general discussion has finally ended. Senator Romeo, the singing tones of this part of the debate can and must be deleted. (The sounds of whistles persist) Colleagues, legitimate is the externation of a dissent, but, beyond a certain point, stone. Senators Augussori, Romeo and Rufa, at this point I have to start taking action in this House. Stop! Allow explanations of vote to begin. CHORO OF VOICES. Get out! Get out! Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Poli points out to me that, in the tribune of the second order, the doors have been locked from inside. This is not permitted for safety reasons. If the doors are not reopened, I am forced to suspend the session or to have the doors opened. (You keep hearing whistling sounds.) Since Senator Quester confirms to me that the door has been opened, I invite you to stop whistling.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u127	You have the right to do so. (Brusio) UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, how can I speak with this noise? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, that's enough! UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, with this measure, at last, it wins security, the real one, and it loses fear, the one that only serves electoral propaganda. Like many others, we have challenged the Salvini decrees, saying that they would worsen the problems related to immigration. In particular, with those decrees...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u128	[[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u129	Colleagues, I invite you all to sit down! Everyone included! There's no such thing as a "scramble"! UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). In particular, those decree-laws closed the SPRAR, those small reception centres where so many people worked successfully for the integration of migrants and which also served as antennas for the control of the territory. Moreover, with the very narrow humanitarian permits, many people were catapulted into invisibility, an easy prey to organised crime in search of cheap labour. Not to mention the rules on rescue at sea, contrary to international agreements; so much so that - as is well known - President Mattarella wrote a letter to the Houses to raise serious concerns, urging Parliament to amend the measure. Luckily, this season has closed, despite the pathetic attempts of obstruction by those who have made fear their electoral business.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u130	[[Applause. You hear whistling sounds]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u131	Now you're gonna stop whistling! UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). We are back to talking about inclusion and integration, vocational training and learning of the Italian language, rights and duties, all with particular attention to unaccompanied minors and the most vulnerable people. They leave behind the large reception centres, so dangerous for the fact that they turn into sources of social conflict - also because of the not always optimal conditions of those places - and they focus on the small centres spread, which are easier to manage and reduce the risks of tension with the territory, returning to provide courses not only for refugees, but also for asylum seekers, who instead were cut off from the security decrees. The registration of asylum seekers in the health register also returns, because it was simply crazy that there were people who were not entitled to health care. We have entered the perimeter of the Constitutional Charter, prohibiting the rejection of people in places where they risk being subjected to torture or other inhuman and degrading treatment. The permit for humanitarian reasons, for those who do not qualify for refugee status, is simply a matter of civilization. Moreover, we know that expulsion is effective only towards the countries of origin with which Italy has entered into bilateral agreements. On this front, the budget of the former Minister of the Interior, despite the many announcements, is also rather lacking. The only way, then, is to work for the integration of those people, protecting them from the aims of criminal organizations. Of common sense is also the norm that allows the conversion of residence permits into work permits and also here nothing particularly shocking: we are in the wake of what a center-right government did with the law that bore the name of Umberto Bossi and Gianfranco Fini. The rescue activity at sea is freed from the heavy negative judgment; absurd sanctions are abolished for those who save lives, never applied because in clear contrast to the international laws of the sea, as perfectly described by the judge for the preliminary investigations of Agrigento in the reasons for the non-validation of the arrest of Carola Rackete. The aid at sea, the right-duty of rescue, is restored as a constitutive act of our idea of society. With this measure the violation of the prohibition of entry into territorial waters is punished with a fine very reduced and, above all, can no longer be applied to rescue operations. Positive is also the close to criminal activities, with the tightening up of the urban Daspus for drug dealers, even in the absence of a definitive condemnation; as well as positive is the tightening of the rules for the subjects involved in the fights, an intervention dedicated to Willy, the boy of Cape Verde origin killed with kicks and fists by a group of criminals a few months ago. Unfortunately, the population has the feeling that nothing ever happens to criminals, that they are arrested and released the next day to continue with the sale, with the occupation in town squares and intimidating and aggressive behavior towards passers-by. We know something about this in Bolzano, where we were all outraged by the verbal sexist attack on a city councilman by a group of migrants, followed by a police raid. We must act firmly and rigorously against these criminals. It is not acceptable for the population, because of these characters, to assert the idea of immigration as a synonym of crime, because migrants are above all those who take care of our elderly, work in our restaurants, clean our homes and our hotels. These foreigners are those who also pay contributions and taxes and, in a country where they are unfortunately no longer having children, their contribution is also essential for the pension system. We then make this commonplace: with a careful reading of the data we realize that foreigners no longer commit crimes of the Italians. In addition, if one enters into the substance of the crimes committed by foreigners, 70 percent are committed by irregulars. It is evidence that, when a person is excluded from any possibility, when there is a ban on working or finding legitimate forms for his or her livelihood, the direct consequence is social deviance. To conclude, President, this provision has restored a principle of humanity and civilization that should never be lacking in a country with the history and democratic maturity of Italy. It is the beginning of a new path, in which I really hope that the issue will stop being an element of the most mocking propaganda and become an issue to be dealt with with with intelligence and respect for its complexity. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u132	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u135	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, today's vote is not a vote against, today's vote is a vote for: a vote for those who run away from inhumane conditions in search of a dignified life and a better future, but it is also a vote for the country, for our interests, to restore in fact security and legality; that security and the legality that had been compromised in the smoke of propaganda in recent years. The bet we face is not to be overwhelmed by arrivals, but at the same time not to let other migrants die at sea and not create new pockets of irregulars; a game that is much more complex than the slogans to which we had had to get used two years ago during the continuous electoral campaign to which you forced us. The Minister for the Interior Lamorgese, in just one year of work, has succeeded in achieving two important results: he has brought the migration issue back to its natural place, that is the European frame, and has managed to reduce the number of deaths at sea by ten times compared to its predecessor, through the overcoming of the logic of the closed ports; an important result, although still remains dramatically insufficient since every lost life is a loss of too much, but it is a result that we could hopefully go to improve precisely with this law. It is a law that first of all sounds the reliefs raised on the Salvini decrees by President Mattarella and the Constitutional Court; those statements that the President had contested to the Government and Parliament regarding the cancellation of humanitarian law and the respect of international treaties, regarding the obligation to provide rescue at sea to persons in danger; a duty that the security decrees, in their original form, had in fact hindered both through the very salty fines imposed on NGOs, and with the confiscation of ships to humanitarian organizations. With this decree, then, Italy returns to be a country that respects European and international law. The measure also sounds the findings of the Constitutional Court, which had rejected the passage that prevented foreign asylum seekers from registering for registration. So with the changes that we are going to vote we restore rights and legality: even if the intention of the Salvini decrees was to put an end to illegality, they certainly did not achieve this goal; indeed, they created large pockets of illegality through the abolition, in October 2018, of humanitarian protection. Until then about 20,000 immigrants per year benefited and the decree had the disastrous effect from a practical point of view, so much so that those who were waiting for a recognition - and before the law would have obtained it - with the disappearance of humanitarian protection it was seen to oppose a denial, becoming illegal to all intents and purposes. The result has been to create at least 37,000 new irregulars in just two years, to which have been added all those who previously enjoyed humanitarian protection, namely about 39,000 people, to whom it has not been renewed. So, over 70,000 irregulars are basically the result of the measures of then Minister Salvini: invisible people, destined to disappear into thin air, because the returns in the meantime have not increased. They are therefore subjects of which we do not have information, with all the possible dangers that this may entail, as has unfortunately been seen recently in the terrorist attack in Nice, whose author had turned out to have entered Europe from Italy. That is why it is good and right that humanitarian protection should be re-introduced. It is positive for the rights of those directly concerned, who thus acquire identity, but it is also excellent for the security of the country, which will thus identify and monitor the migrants it is receiving. Equally positive are the further changes that we are going to foresee with this law: first of all the introduction of SIA, the System of integration and reception, which basically restores the SPRAR, an excellent network of small reception centres spread over the territory that had been - also these - abolished by the Salvini decrees. Of course, the migration issue is a complex phenomenon, a phenomenon that concerns the sphere of rights but also duties; a complexity that cannot find simple, banal answers. For this reason the modification of the security decrees, the result of a long work of mediation between the Government and the majority forces - work for which I feel to thank both Minister Lamorgese and Undersecretary Mauri - is an important first step, to which it will be necessary to make others follow. First of all, the reform of the Dublin Treaty is urgently needed, so that all European countries can participate in the reception process. Here it must be said that, once again, it will not be easy to achieve this result, since the Visegrad countries, close friends of the League and the Brothers of Italy at European level, are among the hardest opponents of the revision of the Treaty itself. And, therefore, it is all to be verified that we will be able to modify it, and above all to modify it in a version that is favorable for Italy. Then we need a reform of the law on citizenship that allows thousands of boys and girls, born and raised in our country, to be recognized to all intents and purposes as Italian citizens. Finally, we must invest in policies for integration: integration into the world of school, work, social and representation, because it is only through integration that migrants can give the best of themselves and can be revealed in all their potential, as a valuable resource for the country of reception, as well as for the individual. This is proved by the hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen who, tens of years ago, were themselves migrants seeking work, traveling around Europe and the world. Just a few days ago, right here, in the Senate classrooms, we celebrated the sixty-five years of the bilateral agreements between Italy and Germany for the recruitment of Italian workers; workers who since 1955 started as gastarbeiter to contribute to the reconstruction of post-war Germany. Our event was attended by managers, university professors, young managers, mayors, speakers who told us the story of our migrants, their parents or grandparents, over the decades. Most are success stories, thanks to the integration achieved. Those experiences teach us, even today, some very topical things: firstly, if we look at immigration only as a danger and refuse to adopt measures for integration, we can generate long-term problems such as school failures, unemployment, social marginalization of young migrants, discomfort, violence and possibly even crime. If, on the other hand, immigration is seen as an opportunity and integration work is being done, then the basis for the professional success of migrants is created and the benefits for society as a whole, both in terms of economic growth and social cohesion. This is exactly the history of our many fellow countrymen in Germany, but also in many other countries where our fellow countrymen have been brilliantly established. So, Mr President, I believe that this story, so characteristic for our country - a story of migrants who, despite the many difficulties, have succeeded in asserting themselves successfully - must not be forgotten, and indeed we need it today to understand how much immigration can be a wealth not only for itself, but also for the country in which we choose to live. While it is true that much of the results of those who emigrate are the result of the willpower of the individual, it is also true that part of their success depends on the good integration policies that have been implemented by their respective host countries. I think it is useful that our experience as a country of emigration serves us as a lighthouse to put in place good policies for integration that, in addition to enhancing the many potentials of our migrants, create at the same time the best conditions, also social, for the growth and development of the country, exactly as have contributed to do over the years many of our Italian migrants around the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u138	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, if it were possible for a person from another planet, from another system in the galaxy, to come and listen to what we are discussing today, he would think that this humanity really, taking us for the generality of humans, is crazy and irresponsible. One who comes from another galaxy, after flying around our cities, would be surprised and wondered how it is possible - while the families are divided and, to date, do not know if they will be able to reach their relatives at Christmas; while the entrepreneurs keep the companies closed and are failing; while those who have had the certainty of being able to open the locals and restaurants at Christmas, and have already bought food, must throw them because it seems that there is a counter order; comrades [[Applause]] , as Guareschi long ago said - that, in the place where Italians should be represented, the most urgent problem today, with the prevailing disease, with the problems of Christmas that increase the difficulties, is to discuss whether to abolish the so-called security decrees, which had been voted - as would see the one who comes from Mars - by half of those who today are in the majority. In fact, it is more than half of those who are in the majority today, who have been very happy to take credit in that case and today, with some embarrassment - at least I hope - they must take the merits of the opposite and opposite measure. The left, which always gives, pervicaciously, precedence ideological interests to the good of Italy and to the good of the Italians, does not have these problems. They have no problems and do not tell us that it is in the interest of those who have been persecuted in their own country or flee from a war. We have never denied them the right to asylum. We have never denied the right to come to Italy to those who really have a reason recognized by international laws. Just look around to see that it's a weak, lying excuse. They all know very well that already now, around our cities - beautiful welcome - there are desperate people in the hands of the underworld or who wander, sleeps where it happens, and has nothing to do with those who are granted the right to asylum. And since that was not enough, it was well thought to abolish those few existing rules. Italians need to know, because otherwise they don't know what we're talking about. We are not talking about blocking a mother with a child fleeing from the war: we would miss it! We are blocking the expulsion and allowing millions of people who say they have to come to our country because it rained too much at home, there has been a poor harvest - these poor people, I already understand - or people who a complacent doctor says they suffer from anxiety and depression and cannot be expelled. Just say it any doctor or they declare themselves homosexual. If they claim to be homosexual they have the right to remain in Italy, or still have the right to remain in our country if they have been subjected to a family or private violation; we do not understand which one. It'll be decided. Maybe the girlfriend left him. Is this a violation of personal life? Yes. The girlfriend horned him and must go to Italy. He'll be told he's right. Sit down. Someone remembered what happened to the one who rammed the ship: in Germany they arrested her for much less. For God's sake, were there any fines? They're almost gone. For God's sake, were there any judicial measures? Not anymore. In one word, the ideological fact, always wanted by the Marxist international, first, and left, today is: we abolish borders. There is no national identity; no matter where you were born, no matter what language you speak, no matter what culture you have or what religion you practice; no matter how Italian or another language, I said so. But it doesn't matter whether you respect fundamental laws or not; wherever you are, know that you can come to Italy. If this is not a right to invasion, tell me what it is. Who's gonna make money on this? The Championships [[Applause]] , but also those who live on the reception. It is no coincidence that we have proposed that the cost of illegal immigrants should be equated with the minimum pension of EUR 546. No, for the immigrant 1,200 euros; obviously the money does not go into the pocket of the poor immigrants; they end up in the hospitality business, on which it is very difficult to investigate. Mr President, I am breaking a spear in favour of the real immigrants, the non-illegal ones. He wrote to me an Albanian citizen, his name is Jimmy, he lives in Ragalna, in via Paternò - you can look for him - and he told me that, although he has a job, he pays taxes, his employer, but what he earns - I think 7,000 euros a year - is too little; in a mountain village he is enough to survive together with his family. Well, for the moment they have denied him the renewal of the residence permit because he earns little; therefore, there is a persecution against the regular immigrants in order to favor those who land underground and who perhaps go to make attacks in other parts of Italy. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, you have established that, as Christmas approaches, everyone must stay away, at home, trouble to greet relatives. It has been said that 70,000 armed forces will be watching. Is it possible that there will be no 7,000 to ensure that those who are and should remain locked up do not escape the reception centers? [[Applause.]] Is it possible that the proposal of Brothers of Italy will not be accepted at least to recognize the overtime economically to the military, to the Forces of order that, poor people, will spend Christmas to prevent us from seeing our brother or grandmother, while they should carry out other socially much more useful tasks? Mr President, yet another injustice is taking place. I do not like to generalize responsibilities, because in PD there is an ideological component, and perhaps even in a part of Movimento 5 Stars, but most will vote for this measure because, if it did not pass, it would send home the government that put trust. This would risk giving the voice to the Italians, who could vote. Therefore, the majority today will have the numbers, only because inside there are those who are afraid that it is up to the Italians to decide whether or not they will be able to keep the chair. I understand that this does not bring shame to those who, in the Movimento 5 Stars, voted less than a year ago the opposite. I understand that it does not bring shame, in the PD, to those who are more reasonable than the extremist and ideological position that I have enunciated. However, there is a good person for every season - sorry to say, because they should represent Italy - who was at the head of the government who wanted these decree-laws and is at the head of another government, who wants to abolish these decree-laws with equal force. There is one person, who is called President Conte, who should have the good taste to resign after this umpteenth silly act. Count, resign! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u141	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to declare my vote, that of the colleagues of LEU and other senators and senators of the Mixed Group. I immediately say that it is a vote in favour of the confidence demanded by the government, a convinced yes. Today, finally, the light returns to shine, after this dark period that we leave behind with the decrees Salvini, whose only security was that of continuous propaganda, which created only insecurity, inequality, contempt and hatred towards the last and who, NGOs, have replaced the States, going to sea and respecting the law of the sea: saving human lives. (Applause from the centre and the right) In the course of the debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights took the floor. I would like to stress here the establishment of these rules. Mr President, with today's vote we are healing the wound inflicted on our rule of law, on our liberal legal culture, because we consider the subjects to whom these human standards are intended. It has been terrible years, in which the penultimates against the last, women and men who had a job and a path of integration suddenly entered the shadows, became invisible and those who had a humanitarian protection document could lose it, ending up in the circuit of lawlessness, then expelled from the reception system. Irregular from one day to the next, without rights to make them blackmailable, the scapegoat of suffering and abandonment of our suburbs. We are proud of the humanitarian efforts of NGOs and civil society. Don't we want NGOs at sea? Europe returns to deploy the fleets, as it did in the aftermath of the massacre in Lampedusa on 3 October 2013, which cost 368 deaths. We do not forget the airport hangar of the Sicilian island, with all those coffins. All the powerful in Europe said: never again! "I feel shame and horror," declared the head of the State, Giorgio Napolitano, who added: "it is necessary to revise the anti-welcome laws." Yes, sooner or later we should put our hands on the mother of all the anti-immigrant laws, the Bossi-Fini, a criminal law. [[Applause]] Our country, in the aftermath of that massacre, authorized the operation Mare nostrum, to avoid the repetition of other tragic events in the Mediterranean. Then the operation Mare nostrum was replaced by the European-led operation, Frontex, and then away, if there were first ten of us, today there are only the NGOs. Not in league with the scafists! No NGOs are under trial; others are under trial today. [[Applause]] It is important that it is law that the prohibition measures to enter territorial waters cannot be applied to ships carrying out rescue at sea in accordance with the rules of international law and conventions, which means that the rescue crew must notify their flag State and that the same thing must be done with the coordination centre responsible for marine rescue, of which they must follow the instructions. Of course, there is still much to be done at national and European level on the integration and management of migratory flows under the banner of law, reason and humanity, but we are on the right path because this decree closes, hopefully forever, the season in which the immigrant has been criminalized and because the phenomenon of migration is finally faced with rationality, respecting the principles of legal civilization and international law. Thousands of people - women and men with dramatic names and stories - had suddenly become invisible, despised and defined with a word that should be deleted: Illegal. [[Applause]] I listened carefully to the opposition colleagues say that, in the days of Salvini Minister of the Interior, the landings had been reduced and that, instead, they have now increased. I say to them that this decree has been in operation for just two months and I also ask: at the time of the Interior Minister Salvini what had the promise to remove half a million irregulars from Italy? How many have you repatriated? It is easy to make propaganda, to play on people's fear and despair and to put them against each other, but so you don't deal with matters, they just amplify them. [[Applause]] I would like to thank the President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, who, on the day that the Council of Ministers adopted this decree (on which the Chamber of Deputies gave its opinion, further improving the text), gave to Palazzo Chigi 4 special residence permits: to the widow of Thomas Daniel, Mrs Cinzia, and to the three colleagues of the young Freeman who escaped his death. Thomas Daniel and Ciro Perrucci, Neapolitan, were the two construction workers who died in Naples on June 1st as they built an abusive building. Thomas and Cinzia had arrived in Italy eighteen years ago from Liberia and had a residence permit for humanitarian purposes. Then, with the Salvini decrees, they became exploited and invisible. Economic and social crises, climate change and wars push multitudes of people to move and leave their communities in search of survival. It is the history of humanity, which has always been marked by migrations since prehistoric times. And then, rather than propaganda, we must govern these phenomena: changing the Dublin regulation, opening humanitarian corridors, committing Europe and finally adopting a law on citizenship. [[Applause]] Mr President, we have been waiting for months for the cancellation of the Salvini decrees, since this Government was born, and today we are finally there. Let us leave inhumanity behind. Yes, today we reconstruct the reception system, reintroducing the possibility for asylum seekers to enter the reception and integration system, which is the old SPRAR, a widespread system of many small groups to limit conflict to the maximum. In fact, there is the re-introduction of humanitarian protection, although in this decree it is called special. And, again, having made many residence permits convertible into work permits promotes integration, which is our best weapon. I'm starting to finish the surgery. I keep several images in me: the coffins of Lampedusa, the ghetto of Rosarno, the lifeless body of Alan Kurdistan, Thomas Daniel's funeral. I'd like to read you a sentence, that of Pam, a young Vietnamese woman who left on her mom's phone before choking in the container, carried by a TIR: Mom and Dad, forgive me if my journey to a foreign country ends here. I can't breathe anymore. I'm dying. Mom, I'm so sorry. I love you so much. Yes, we must respond to the Pams, the Alans and the many innocent victims of poverty. There is a need for humanity, for thousands of exploited men and women and subjects to emerge from the submerged and the black. [[Applause]] Marginalizing them means handing them over to the criminal circuit and allowing them to enter the legal circuit means the same rights and duties as others. Colleagues and colleagues, today is the International Day for the Rights of Migrants. We will never be patient if someone dies because of us. The right to live and the right to dream of the future are universal. We're on the side of people. We, ladies and gentlemen, are voting yes to the confidence of the government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u144	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I immediately voted in favour of the Democratic Party's confidence in the Government and the provision for our examination. It is an important measure that also contains relevant rules on other issues: I am thinking of the provisions to prevent the entry into prison of abusive telephony and those that give more tools to the Guarantor to protect not only prisoners, but also those who are institutionalized in the RSA. However, it is clear that this measure contains, above all, measures to better govern, with justice and humanity, immigration, a phenomenon with which all Western societies are confronted and will have to be compared for demographic, social and international reasons. If so, an important part of the debate we have had these days makes no sense. If so, the theme is not to divide between those who want to open and those who want to close. No one wants to open or increase immigration, as you are saying, and no one has been able to close, as you are saying. The theme is not who wants or who does not want the illegal. None of us want illegals. The real point and the real difference is between those who want to shake the problem and those who want to rule it. [[Applause]] This decree-law, wanted by the whole majority (and I thank the Movimento 5 Stars for honoring a commitment), cancels norms contained in two decree-laws that - let's say it now - have produced nothing good, but have served to make propaganda. They have been the manifesto of those who point to an enemy to unload fears and concerns on. No problem of crime, disorder, illegality has been solved, on the contrary, you told us. Today we intervene to change measures that have changed into worse and humiliated men and women who are already here, already resided in Italy, even if they came from other countries. An important part of the reception and integration system has been closed, leaving thousands of people who were entitled to remain on our territory. [[Applause]] Humanitarian permits have been removed from integrated people who, thanks to those permits, could work and support the family. The time required to accept the application for citizenship of those who live here has been increased to four years. These rules have increased lawlessness, illegality, insecurity, other than respecting those who really need it, those who work and want to integrate! [[Applause]] You have handed over thousands of people to lawlessness. The idea is that you have to treat those who are here badly to prevent others from being tempted to come here. Those who, according to some of you, as I have heard in this debate, decide to leave, cross the desert, get into the hands of slaves or boatmen and risk dying at sea do all this because they see television or because our country respects the principles of humanity. It's not like that, and you know it very well. They leave because they're desperate and even those risks can't stop them. Then there is the other side, the other enemies to expose to the anger of the Italians: NGOs, organizations that have the blame to save people at sea. You told us we had to hit them, because they are allies of the hullers. There are dozens of investigations to prove that it is not true, but the same is said, because someone has to be blamed and it is not possible to give it to hunger, wars or dictatorships. We need a closer enemy, who has the sole fault of saving the lives of unwelcome people. Then there is reality: the Salvini decrees did not solve even one of the problems listed here by the opposition. Indeed, as I said before, they have made integration on the territory and control weaker. These decrees have not made Italians safer. It is not that, if we do not constantly talk about immigrants kept on a ship, it means that the problem of immigration is not solved, whereas, if we talk every day about ships kept off the coast with immigrants, the problem of immigration is being solved. The audits themselves and part of this House have described a situation of degradation and difficult integration; they have spoken about the Termini station and the increased landings. I remember that all this happened until October while the Salvini decrees were in force, because until October the Salvini decrees were in force. [[Applause]] Of the two: either the Salvini decrees do not solve the problems or work only if the Minister of the Interior is an exponent of the League. I do not understand that judges, law enforcement agencies and administrations apply or do not apply the laws in force depending on who the Minister is. [[Applause]] On the other hand, it is very difficult to govern immigration and the centre-right should know it, because those who today denounce a difficult situation are also the authors of all the rules that intervene in the matter of health and immigration, from the Salvini decrees to the Bossi-Fini decrees. You are the authors of the laws in force. It is not enough to agitate the problems; we need to work with Europe. President von der Leyen's statements on the fact that immigration is a European problem and not of the individual border countries, together with the commitment to revise the Dublin Treaty, have been achieved by Italy. It is necessary to make agreements with the countries of origin, as Minister Lamorgese did with Tunisia. I remember that since that day 1,664 returns have been made. Returns must be carried out, as Mr Lamorgese has done. In the first eight months of 2019 (I believe there was another Minister) 541 returnees were made per month; in the other four months, with this Government, 651 returnees were made per month, testifying that it is not on legality the difference between us, but on humanity. [[Applause]] And we also agree to legally let only those who want to work. But today it is not possible to legally enter this country for an immigrant. There is no security if you fail the principles of humanity. There is security if this phenomenon is ruled, not agitated and used to feed consent on people's skin. We try to govern him. We hope that you and the citizens will also understand that this is the issue: to govern immigration, not to agitate it. By shaking it, and with inhumanity, only more problems are created than those supposed to be solved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u147	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, everyday reality is worse than the debates we are having here. Today's ANSA agency reports that in Agrigento, about ten immigrants, during the transfer from one structure to another, attacked the driver, abandoned the bus and about 70 immigrants disappeared. They wounded a carabiniere and, in 72, they managed to escape. This has happened today. We applauded yesterday, convincedly, the release of our fishermen, who were free workers unjustly imprisoned and who did not bother anyone. To this day, the agency Adnkronos reports a report published by the pan-Arab newspaper "Asharq al-Awsat" whose reliability they are unable to verify. The Adnkronos, however, publishes the news that there would be an exchange of prisoners. In Libya (we do not know which Libya), four Libyan citizens would have been repatriated, condemned after a trial in Italy for illegal trafficking. I ask the Government in this House whether this is true or not. I don't know this paper. I read Italian agencies. This isn't about a prisoner exchange here. We were defending abducted workers. These, on the other hand, were boatmen convicted of human trafficking and are, perhaps, placed on the same level. [[Applause]] This decree-law can be summarized in one sentence: more laxism, which involves more departures of illegal immigrants from North Africa, more travels and, Senator Rotolo, more dead. The number of deaths, in fact, increases with the number of journeys and with the politics of laxism towards the traffickers of people. We do not accept your rhetoric, because it is your policy that has multiplied the tragedies in the Mediterranean. I want to say it clearly: counterorder, comrades, as Guareschi would have said, because those who pretend to be good, by definition, are the bad guys, who, with their laxity, multiply tragedies. And we, who would be the bad guys, are the good guys, who want to block the tragedy of the dead in the Mediterranean: it is our policy that can assure it. In 2020, the year that is about to close, the landings will be almost 40,000; in 2019, they had been 10,000. Those decrees, which you wish to repeal with this vote, were, therefore, better than these rules which are now in force. I would also like to reiterate that we, as Forza Italia, opposed, at the time, also the Green Yellow Government, but, on the merits of those decrees, we said that we appreciated a policy of firmness towards the illegals and the trafficking of people, because it was one of the bastions of the unitary political program. We contended, in that decree, that there was a lack of money and resources in the police force. And here I say to the government: you have not yet received the security and defence department to renew the contract. You violated the laws. You did not receive them when the budget maneuver was launched. It is useless to pat the people in uniform on their shoulders, even in these days of emergency. Give them money and contracts, which you have denied to the entire security and defence sector so far. This, therefore, is not only a political measure, but is an ideological measure and, as we discussed yesterday in the preliminary question, the need and urgency is also unmotivated. The decree-law is messed up and confused and deals with various subjects. If you want to make a decree-law for necessity and urgency, I also tell Deputy Minister Misiani, I give you a suggestion: look at the prices of trains and planes these days and speculations for the people who have to go home. Make a decree-law to prevent speculation on transport prices: there is necessity and urgency. People have to buy the ticket and they still don't know when, when you decide what you have to do. You failed on all sides. When this government began there was a conference of Interior Ministers in Malta. I personally have great respect for the Minister of the Interior, but I remember when, from the ramparts of Malta, during a fine press conference he announced the agreement for the distribution of illegal immigrants in Europe. Nothing happened. That deal failed: Malta turns to the other side and does not help anyone, when someone arrives in its territorial waters. With this decree, Italy returns to waste like CARA di Mineo; Italy returns to Buzzi, who said that it makes more money with immigrants than with drugs. [[Applause]] Those policies come back that have allowed us to waste resources on the territories. They will no longer be called SPRAR, but SAI: logic, however, is always the same. The procedures of the judiciary are worse, already slow and cumbersome. Already it is difficult to do a refusal or expulsion and it will be even more difficult. Restore, moreover, that concept of humanitarian protection that does not have to do with asylum, which is sacrosanct and affirmed in the Constitution for those who run away from wars and seek refuge. Humanitarian protection will be used in a pretentious manner by those who claim to be a fake member of this or that category, this or that lifestyle only to say they are discriminated against and escape the expulsion from illegality. Open to NGOs. This is a Carola Rackete decree, which wanted to kill the members of the Finance Guard. [[Applause]] It is the decree for the traffickers of people, who are your model, those who have caused the most travels and the most dead, who have serious responsibilities. We are on the side of the real NGOs who assist those who suffer in the world. We are against the Leoncavallo of the sea, the social centers of the sea, which make an absurd and wrong policy, which we never shared. It is true that many unfortunates travel on boats, but we would like to remind you that sometimes he has traveled even some terrorist. We have also seen recent events. I must also say that the international community should have more courage. Several times I have said that known and recognized fundamentalists should be held by a special law such as that which was done in Italy at the time of terrorism. Did you notice? As soon as there is an attack, after a few minutes you know the biography, the exploits and the precedents of the bombers, because they were already known and recorded. But no one stops them. You will say to me, "But do you want to hold them back?" Do you know what happens to these bombers? Most of them are killed in the firefights that take place after the attacks. It would be better to hold them back sooner than to let them kill innocent people later and kill them on the road, because that happens. There is an unauthorized, unofficialised death penalty, but this happens. [[Applause]] There are moments of risk of Covid's outbreak. 70 more escaped, as I told you earlier. The terms of detention are reduced; any action against the illegality and movement of various boats arriving in Italy is mortified. There are also international relations. We want clarity from Egypt on the story of the Regens, there would be no more. But, beware: Egypt every year has 1,000 people, including soldiers and policemen, who die in the fight against fundamentalism in Sinai and elsewhere. Egypt prevents millions of people from going to Libya and fleeing to Italy from Sudan and Egypt itself. Truth about dramatic cases, but also be careful not to break relationships. Then I want to say to the triggers: you vote according to the seasons. You have voted the security decrees with the First Count Government and voted against the security decree in Count-A, because your decree is to stand afloat in Parliament and keep the place. [[Applause.]] You have done so in a matter that I know well. When there was the Diciotti affair, involving the then Interior Minister Salvini, you were in the government and you rightly voted in favour of the report that I did, as President of the Senate's Parliamentary Election and Immunity Council and rapporteur, saying that the Minister had acted for a national interest, within the framework of his competences in sharing government. When there was the Gregoretti case, where the government was even more involved than in the Diciotti case, Count had his diplomatic adviser Benassi write emails to his representative Massari in Brussels, in which he said that either the sharing of illegals or other landings could not be made. The minister of justice Bonafede has cursed that no other presence was wanted in Italy, that was enough, those who had to get off had come off the ship and Di Maio affirmed the same. And then you voted against my report, because your horizon is the maintenance of the place, not a political line on immigration and security. [[Applause]] This is a place of work - Senator Malan suggests - not having others, this is a luck that has hit you. Mr President, this decree is the surrender to immigration, it is less security and more illegal, your Government is a danger to health, to borders, to everyday life. That is why we say no to you and reject your decrees. You may have the confidence of a Senate frightened by the cut of the seats, the collapse of the grill percentages, by the checks of Renzi's armchair, but you will not have the confidence of the Italians and you will not have ours. On the contrary, we will let you vote for a measure imposed with dullness, without dialogue, without confrontation, with simultaneous trust, without discussing anything. Blind a harmful decree, but if you can have a yes here, you have a no in the country, which is already a majority, through us, through Forza Italia. It is the Italy of the decent people, who say no to you and your Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u150	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will give some thought to these decree-laws. Theoretically, I should be the most angry because I am also paying on my own skin, not delegating or forgetting, in a courtroom, the pride of having applied the law, saved lives and defended my country. [[Applause]] Unlike others, I don't run away, I don't forget, I don't deny it. I've heard so many inaccuracies, because numbers are numbers. I recall that, thanks to these decrees that part of this House (I am thinking of the Five Stars) voted, rightly, we have halved the number of dead and missing in the Mediterranean Sea, so the most dead and most landed balance is on your conscience. [[Applause]] It is on the conscience of the Wheels, of the Mirabelli. I'll meet you back here in a year and see how much blood has been shed in the name of your supposed goodness. The more people go, the more people die. I remember last year 11,000 people landed in Italy, this year we are 33,000. It is true that the old decrees are in force, but it is clear that if a decree is in force and does not apply it, they are all good. [[Brusio.]] I understand that there are people who are busy booking the train to go home, but if, Senator, you don't care, you can leave the Chamber. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u151	Senator Salvini, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u152	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). He's right. You have my full respect and I apologise to you yes, Mr President, to others not. The only ones they will celebrate are scafists, traffickers and exploiters of men and women to whom this House is giving a gift today. Everyone is free to do what he thinks. However, since the people ultimately decide, it will be a referendum, so in Covid sold out we will start to work, to delete this shameful page of Italian history. [[Applause]] because in order to get to Italy you have to have the titles and the permission to arrive in Italy, especially out of respect for those who really run away from the war and should not be confused with the smarts of the mobile phone and out of respect for our grandparents and great-grandparents, who left Italy emigrated to the rest of the world, bringing respect, fatigue and sweat [[Applause]] Without anyone giving them anything. However, let me say - and we will never be convinced of this - that, in my opinion, it is surreal. Today is Friday afternoon. It's 4:00 p.m. on December 18th. PD and 5 Stars have certainties about the rights of irregular immigrants, but not about those of sixty million Italians who, to date, have not yet understood what they will be able to do from Christmas Eve onwards. [[Applause]] You're shameful. You are absolutely unworthy and shameful. Immigration has nothing to do with it. The rumors say that the solution to the fight... [[Protests. Recalls of the President]] It seems that the Count-Renzi verification gave birth to the brilliant idea a little'red, a little 'orange; a bit 'closed, a little 'open. It seems that PD, Movimento 5 Stars and Italy Viva, with six days notice, are giving birth to the Italians as follows: 24, 25, 26 and 27 December closed at home, red days; 28, 29 and 30, perhaps, citing the Minister of Foreign Affairs, will be allowed to some Italian to leave the borders of its municipality, but the mediation Conte-Renzi seems to have established in five thousand the number of inhabitants over whom this right is lost. Therefore the citizens of Gazzaniga, in Val Seriana, in the province of Bergamo, who are in 5,006, do not leave the house; equally those of Montefalco, in the province of Perugia, those of Mineo, in the province of Catania, and those of Recco, Borgoricco and Alberobello, because they are in 5,000 plus one. [[Comments]] I understand that these people do not care about the life of Italians, but if you do not care, leave the Chamber. [[Applause]] For you the salary at the end of the month is guaranteed, for bartenders who have to close no one guarantees the salary. Shame on you and show respect! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u153	No, colleagues! Let Senator Salvini finish. I don't like it! We're in Parliament. Everyone must be able to say what they want. Afterwards, you will intervene to say what you want. [[Protests]] Senator Santangelo, be respectful of the presidency. Sit down, please. Soon after, you will have the opportunity to express your point of view. Everyone says theirs, that's all. Please, Senator Salvini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u154	I don't know which planet some of our colleagues live on or if you grasp the gravity of what your quarrels are behaving on the country's skin. Arriving in the evening of December 18 with sixty million Italians who do not know what they will be able to do from December 24th onwards cries revenge. Go explain it to those entrepreneurs and traders to whom Count, your President-in-Office of the Council, has closed the activities for two months, saying that at least they could have spent a peaceful Christmas, and that now they will send all the supplies and all the staff to the macero and will be closed in the house on the days of Eve, Christmas and St. Stephen. Do you understand what you are doing or appeal to the inability to understand and want? That's the question. I tell you, however, that there is no decree in the world that can separate families and prevent Italians from helping other Italians. No decree in the world can prevent separate parents from exercising their right. I say this in advance: since in silence, like many other colleagues - I imagine - and many other Italians, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, St. Stephen and the last of the year, a part of my days I have always dedicated to bringing something to the last and forgotten (a blanket) [[Applause]] , a cup of warm milk, a plate of pasta, a pair of shoes) in the street, to those who don't have a house, 24 and 25 December I leave home and I go to help those who need it. [[Applause]] No decree in the world can prevent Italians from helping those in need, from carrying... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u155	I find all this noise intolerable. Please, there must be mutual respect, of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u156	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We will meet again in this House when there will be - alas - some Italians with one less job. We continue to ask you kindly that any closure decreed by the Government corresponds to an immediate economic refund. [[Applause.]] You can't say you do like Germany when you close, but not when you pay. We continue to be concerned about the fugitive of Minister Azzolina, on whom the fate of eight million students in this country depends. [[Applause]] , who have not yet understood who goes to school and who does not go to school, who is at home and who is not at home. We simply ask you to take care of school, work and health. Since it's fashionable among journalists to ask politicians if they're gonna vaccinate, I hope there's not even a politician who's gonna cross the line to go do the phenomenon on television, immunizing himself before the others. [[Applause]] , because first come those who need it. We'll see. One is also valid in the queue for the vaccine: there are no A- and B-series citizens. [[Applause.]] Then the story will tell whether you have saved lives or not. In my opinion, the cancellation of the security decrees will gain from it the organized underworld and human traffickers. [[Applause.]] I remember that human traffickers with their trafficking buy weapons and drugs and I hope that there will be no one in this House in favour of selling arms (I do not know about drugs, but we will talk about it anyway). I remind those who want the ius soli that with the current law Italy is the European country that grants the most citizenship in absolute. [[Applause]] There is therefore no need to change anything at all. I don't take any more time, because tonight the appointment is not with the lottery of receipts, but with the live television of President Conte. Woe, then, to miss the direct television of President Conte, especially legislation provided for in the new Constitution, delivered by Count and Renzi. I do not think I have changed anyone's mind in this Parliament, but the Italians outside know very well how they feel. I hope at least you are aware that your quarrels, delays and incompetence are ruining the lives of sixty million Italians. [[Protests]] I hope that, before you fall asleep tonight, you will have an examination of your conscience, because this country does not deserve to be on the skin of those who, for this country, gave everything. Fight about everything, but not about the health, work and families of Italian citizens, please. Thank you and still Merry Christmas, hoping the befana will bring you something useful. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u159	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to begin by complimenting the previous speaker. I congratulate him because he was very good at doing something that is taught and learned - depending on the roles - at school. He managed to go off track, which is to talk about everything, except what we have to do. [[Applause]] So, a good three with a blue pen would have taken it. Moreover, we have also heard that he spoke of the last, and this is very consistent with being the Padan communist (we remind him that he is a Padan communist). Moreover, we have heard Senator Gasparri, if I am not mistaken, say that we are here to take the salary: said by someone who has been in Parliament for twenty-eight years and who I believe has never worked in his life (as well as Senator Salvini, who I believe has been in Parliament for sixteen years)... [[Applause]] The good thing is they're both reporters. Well, I'd invite them to work, like I did for 23 years before I got in here, being an engineer, and taking up public works. So, like so many of us, I can teach all of you what the real world is, not the fantastic one, because it's true that there is one. On the subject, I would like to remind you that the human body is composed of various pieces: the belly, the heart and the head. I have heard many words of belly, but where you digest food with acids, while we try to face the theme with the heart and with the head [[Applause]] , because this is the classic theme to be addressed with passion and intelligence, as well as rationality. Yet a part of this hemicycle, the one on the other side, always says it does, does, does. Fa? It's a question: what do you do? Surely one thing he did: a little magic, because in the previous provision he made disappear with a magic wand the registry of migrants, a very nice and interesting thing. It seems to me that we are talking about Saruman, who, if I'm not mistaken, was the evil witch of the Lord of the Rings, or his assistant Vermilingu, but there are so many in this hemicycle of Saruman and Vermilingu. The disappearance of the migrant registry has produced a good effect: migrants are not registered, but are free to travel on national territory, obtaining exactly the effect that is stigmatized in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of July 2020, in which it is said that it is not facilitated to pursue the purposes of control of the territory declared by the Security Decree. Not to facilitate in Italian means to hinder [[Applause]] , therefore some actions have been taken that have hindered the end that the decree-law security had to pursue. At this point, we can explain that the Movimento 5 Stars - as you can ever say - has always been very consistent with its positions. [[Comments]] , because - and you know it well - he has always dealt with the issue with rationality. Our position on immigration is clear and simple and has always been the same. We have said that flows must be controlled: right, they must be controlled; people must not enter illegally into national territory, because they are exploited as slaves. This is pleasing to many and serves to fuel what once would have been called, in a different context, the strategy of tension, even if, in this case, it is not tension, of course, but anything else. The method and criterion sometimes approach. The immigration decree and its previous version resulted in an increase in the number of irregulars, from 530,000 to 600,000 in a year. Certainly 600,000 is not 49 million, but there are still many. [[Applause]] We also have other passages: we were talking about the fact that they were controlled, but not about the way in which that 80 percent arrived, with the boats not controlled; but this served to do a whole series of things. Of course we have spoken and we have seen that with the Government Count 2 the number of returns has increased, also thanks to the action that has concentrated in the agreements made also with Tunisia: you will remember, colleagues, that we have doubled the number of aircraft that serve to make the return. Of course, every plane may contain a limited number of people and not the famous 600,000 of someone who told us that they would be repatriated in one day, but 600,000 aircraft have not yet invented them. So we can say, with simplicity and clarity, that the text of the Security Decree has been studied, analysed and verified. We have done this: we have checked the effectiveness of a measure, trying to correct it, of course according to the indications given by the President of the Republic and the repeals of the Constitutional Court. So we corrected it in parts that didn't comply with the target. This is what we have done and it is a very clear, very simple and very clear path. I have heard that numbers have to be read and so, if you like, we show them: these are the data of the Institute for International Political Studies (ISPI), which I think we all know and which provides very simple data to see. Those contained in the document in my hand, which I try to show for the benefit of the people who follow us from home, are the data of the number of immigrants. As you can see, the great descent is due to the previous period, but there was a continuous in all this... [[Comments.]] The Colleagues, don't you see anything? Do I need to read the data? You know them, you're so good. Also in the data of the ISP there are other things, that - unfortunately, I must say - the number of deaths at sea increased during the period when Senator Salvini was Minister. [[Comments.]] It's the ISP data. If you like, colleagues, I will send you a photograph: they are not mine, but officers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u160	Senator Cioffi, we're not on live TV, so if you show the sign, they don't see it from home.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u161	[[Comments.]] CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, allow me: I do not do this for the benefit of television - because they told us that we are doing it for this - but for the citizens who follow us [[Applause. Comments]] , because our action must always be the same, in accordance with the general interest and that people... [[Live protests. You hear whistling sounds.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u162	No, ladies and gentlemen, we need respect for the opinion of others: what I said before applies to all of you, too. Stop it, let's talk! I said that before, when Senator Salvini spoke, and the same respect applies even when Senator Cioffi speaks, even if he expresses something on which you disagree. That is the respect of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr President, perhaps they are used to the north corner. But the theme is always the same, as I said: we have to be very careful, because, when we talk about people, someone, who says to represent them, should know it, should be in the middle of the street and know the real problems of people. On the other hand, all you can do about this theme is reason continuously in a different way, trying to care about the people: this is the term used before, so I also allow myself to use it. We are a force that came to Parliament only because the system did not work. We're working on it with our greatest energy. We are those who have entered Parliament to change the system and bring the people to the centre of action, as stated in Article 1 of our Constitution. [[Applause. Comments]] Since we are talking about a security decree, I would like to read to you - it is good that we all read it - Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which you do not know, because you never study, since you do not have the habit of studying. (You hear whistling sounds.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, do not allow yourself to use the whistle in this House. We're not at the stadium. Let the co-worker finish! CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I pity them; they do not know what they are doing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, continue. Let's not make any more controversy. CIOFFI (M5S). May I pity my colleagues, too, may I? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm saying you can't let them talk. Go on in your speech, talk to me. CIOFFI (M5S). I would like to read Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of which just a week ago the seventy-two years since its adoption were celebrated. I read it for the benefit of all of us, because it is good to remember the important things: "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and must act toward one another in a spirit of brotherhood. It seems to me that these are the words used also in the Gospel and those who call to Mary's immaculate heart these things should know, but evidently if he forgot them, because it is only propaganda. [[Applause]] So, in conclusion, what we stigmatize is the propaganda use of the issue of immigration to... (You hear whistling sounds.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, if you still use the whistle, I will be forced to kick you out of the Chamber, because we are not at a football match. Please stop. [[Applause]] Please, Senator Cioffi. We stigmatize the propaganda use of an important theme such as this only to tickle the belly of that people whom that part of the Assembly wants ignorant; But we do not want it to be, because we are the people and we will always remain what we are: we came here for this only reason and you must all remember it! [[Applause. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u165	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u166	BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I could vote separately, as is the case in the House of Deputies, I would vote yes to the substance of the measure, although shadows still remain, as has been pointed out, because it was a campaign of years, along with the whole I was a foreigner network. However, voting on trust has a very different political and institutional significance. And I am not talking about anything else, ladies and gentlemen, but about the functioning of our institutions, beyond the chatter of particular vulgarity and aggression with regard to the subject and the place in which we are today. I don't know who should be ashamed, but you take this senate as the stadium... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u167	Senator Bonino, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u168	BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). Get him for the bar. On the other hand, voting on trust would mean, for example, government lords, appreciating or approving this legislative mode of the majority, which has become normal, of the use and abuse of omnibus decree-laws (accompanied by the inevitable vote of trust, for charity). And the recent invention, imaginative, on the story of the four Ristorian decrees is the most striking example. This is a well-established practice, which every day becomes more - and should interest you - a de facto monocameralism, not regulated by anyone, but which happens every day and for which too often this Senate, colleagues, sometimes even with your complicity, is reduced to a post office, where you simply put a stamp. It is not a question of Covid, please; also in 2018, dear colleagues of the League, during the Government Count 1, the budget law was passed in exactly the same way: closed box. I don't have the glass ball, but I'm sure this year's budget law will come... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] These are the reasons, because this is not how the institutions, colleagues of the opposition work, and this is not a stadium or a bar, but the Upper House of this country, which deserves a little good education, as well as institutional respect. [[Applause]] However, I believe - and I repeat this to the government and the majority of my friends - that this system of regulation must end. We must all return to honour this Senate, the Constitution and above all ourselves. That is why, with Mr Richetti, I shall abstain from voting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u170	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u171	PARAGO (Mixed). After betraying on the TAV; after betraying on the MES; the "never with the party of Bibbiano" we leave him alone; after having told that never so much money would arrive in Italy, but then you do not find the money to compensate savers, entrepreneurs, traders, artisans and VAT matches (even the dish also cries on the superbonus and cashback); After allowing multinationals to fire and do what they want, from ArcelorMittal to Whirlpool, I mean, what was missing from the appeal of betrayal? The security decrees. So, even the taxis of the sea of Di Maio we jubilated them. [[Applause]] If I were in Fassino, I'd be exulting today. Fassino, you win! It was only a matter of time: the PD domesticated Grillo and the triggers. By now the mutants have made the transformation and have become a perfect body of the center-left, a Europeanist government, a friend of the banks and the system and against the workers; those workers who now, with the modifications of this new package, will find thousands of unfair competitors, immigrants, who will agree to work in contempt of any standard, wages in the head. The PD wanted proof of love and the Movimento 5 Stars gave it to him. After denying families to embrace for Christmas, the rumba of the fake reception of immigrants starts. Under the festivities, the Viminale deploys 70,000 men to make sure that Italians do well the subjects and against, to control the traffic of human beings in the Mediterranean, you are entrusted to the merciful NGOs, the old taxis of the sea, to which you have actually given back the pass. And as Europe commands you, there will be no redistribution. The ingenuity of the Candido, or of the idiot, lies precisely in the indulgence of the diabolical game of those who, in the name of goodness, are allowing to destroy the States, the Nations, the Homeland, closing them in the trap of financial debts and the invasion of migrants. From above, the ESM, the markets, the big banks; from below, the boats; in between, the Italians who leave without work, loaded with debts and threatened by migrants driven to leave their countries with the same neocolonial logics (see Macron) or neoliberalism, which relies on a sense of pietas that you have distorted. How long before you bring him to the Chamber with confidence? We have at Caritas the files of desperate, jobless people who stretch out and you open up borders. Then, respect for borders and stop at landings: there are no other roads. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u172	I support the work on the sanitization of the House. [[Happy protests.]] Let's get the signs out! (The sitting was suspended at 16.35 a.m. and resumed at 18.03 a.m.) We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u173	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2040 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 130 of 21 October 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will be able to vote exclusively from his own post, declaring his own vote. I remember that it is necessary - I say this last time - to avoid gatherings at the centre of the hemicycle. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Mininno is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Mininno. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, appealed. Senators say yes: Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Campagna, Carbone, Cario, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Catalfo, Cattaneo, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Di Piazza, Donno Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Fantoni, Faraone, Fattori, Fedelini, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floridia Gallicchi, Garavini, Garavini, Erruti, Garanzi, Loventi, Evanti, Evangelist Giano, Fantini, Fantini, Farano, Faraone, Senators say no: Berutti Quagliariello. The senators are abstaining: Bonino Durnwalder Richetti Steger. (Senator Lanièce declares that he does not take part in the vote.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Colleagues, I would like to point out the following. Next time, I will no longer give priority to those who express certain needs, because I had to find - and I think this is a sign of disrespect for my fellow Members - that someone who had asked to vote first has remained systematically in this House. I find this quite frankly unacceptable, because if we make this request, it means that we have some particular need. We know that there are transport difficulties and of various kinds and of course we accept all the requests. However, if this is the case and I am faced with the fact that these people remain in this House, I do not think it is a fair gesture towards those Members who have been overcome in calling.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u176	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I apologize to one of my colleagues, who asked to vote in advance, but then missed the train: that is why he stayed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u177	I did not mention them and I do not intend to make them, because I did not want to go into detail: however, it was not just your Group. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2040, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 130 of 21 October 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 161 Senators voting 159 Majority 78 Favorables 153 Contrars 2 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 130 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u178	I inform you that the following letter has been received: Mr President, I have the honour to inform you, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 87 of 1953, that the Constitutional Court, meeting today at its headquarters in the Palazzo della Consulta, elected me President. Signed: Giancarlo Courage. Congratulations to President Courage and good wishes for a good job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u181	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on a very serious issue, because we are not only in a health and economic emergency: as of 1 January, additional European standards will come into force so that companies and families will risk being considered in default for really minimum amounts (100 euros for families and 500 for companies). These strict rules on the structure and financial consolidation really risk harming our families and our production system. I would therefore ask the President, please, if he can take responsibility for communicating with us to the Government that it is necessary to take an initiative of a European nature for these rules to be suspended, otherwise it will be really difficult to make sure that our production system can return as flourishing as before. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u184	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, there are a number of parliamentary questions on an incident which I consider to be very serious. There is a bank, based in Rome but interests in Sicily, which has dealt with the secret services, also for unconfessible operations. It is called Banca Nuova and is owned by Banca Popolare di Vicenza, that of Zonin, on whose crack the Vicenza Public Prosecutor has requested the sentence to ten years. The bank, which broke tens of thousands of households and businesses, has been protected by the vigilant authorities, perhaps to protect secret affairs as well. Two good, very good journalists told this story, doing their duty: collecting information and telling the facts, even if uncomfortable, without hiding anything, and then maintaining the anonymity of their sources, as all journalists do and as they are repeated during the many hours of ethical updating their professional order that imposes every year. Article 1 of Title I of the single text of the duties of the journalist, or the code of professional ethics, states: "Journalists and publishers are required to respect professional secrecy on the source of news." I'm talking about Nicola Borzi, at the time reporter of the daily newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore" and Francesco Bonazzi, de "La Verità" (The Truth). Well, on April 22nd next year, Borzi and Bonazzi will be tried for violation of state secrecy. That's what the judge decided for the preliminary investigation. They're at risk of ten years in jail. This is an exemplary story, Mr President and my fellow Members, of journalists who find news, so they do their work and, precisely because of this, they end up in trouble, in the dark times of the decline of press freedom, the triumph of precariousness and the substantial indifference of the category. Borzi and Bonazzi, in fact, were not defended by the Order of Journalists, as happens with the excellence of our journalism such as Vittorio Feltri and Emilio Fede. This is because Borzi and Bonazzi have not been defended by any of their colleagues, always ready to raise barricades for those who sometimes hide the facts and omit them. In Italy, journalists who do their duty are put at the corner, persecuted, slandered and denounced, as happens, almost weekly, to the journalists of "Report" as happens today in Borzi and Bonazzi. Mr President, in conclusion, what should be a virtue is made to pass by guilt in the country upside down, with persecuted honests and servants of the State and rewarded workers and prejudiced. Is this the country we want? Is this the freedom of the press we fill our mouths with? Is this the justice we celebrate? I address you, ladies and gentlemen, to all the senators and senators, and to you, Mr President: let us remember that, without freedom of the press, there is no democracy and that, without knowledge, there is no freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u185	Colleagues, to those who have stayed in this Chamber and also to those who can take them from outside, I wish you and all your families a merry Christmas, hoping for a better new year. On 28 December we should return, so we will still have a chance to meet, but in the meantime, I was pleased to wish you a Merry Christmas. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-285.ana.u186	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 21 December, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.04 p.m.
