ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 9 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u4	I communicate that, on 11 December 2020, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 150 of 10 November 2020 introducing urgent measures for the revitalization of the health service of the Calabria region and for the renewal of the elected bodies of the regions with ordinary status (2045).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Ladies and gentlemen, last Wednesday Paolo Rossi, a sports footballer and opinionist, died, but above all one of the most exciting symbols of Italian sport. Remembering its figure on the Solemnity of the Senate Chamber means for everyone to go back with memory almost forty years ago, to the image of that clean, polite, polite boy who, with incredible tenacity, courage and determination, has inflame the heart of an entire nation. It was the summer of 1982 and the millions of Italians who invaded the streets and squares of every place to celebrate the victory of the World Cup in Spain are the most beautiful portrait of a people who in sport had found all its strength, all its character and its unity. They are the portrait of a country that, after years of terror, economic sacrifices, social clashes and strong political tensions, had seized an opportunity of ransom, filled with pride and ran to become protagonist of the international scene. And he succeeded just thanks to the feats of the Italian footballer with the most Italian name ever, of that Paolo Rossi who, starting from a small team of province, one step at a time, without ever giving up in front of a thousand difficulties, has reached the top of the world and has become a positive model in and out of the football fields for entire generations. The example of a concrete, intelligent, creative, tireless and generous Italy. An athlete who has made Italy dream and that this Italy will never stop loving. For this reason it is even more hateful to have learned that, during the funeral, his Bucine home was robbed by people without scruples and without humanity. To his wife Federica, to his children and to the whole family, I wish to express the condolences and closeness of the Senate. In memory of Paolo Rossi, Italian champion in the world of sport and sport, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u8	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, thank you for the wonderful memory you wanted to dedicate to your friend Paolo Rossi. Paolo Rossi was not only a great footballer and not even a great sportsman. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, colleagues, it would be a moment of commemoration. 16:45 p.m. (Following SBROLLINI). Today I would like to speak especially of Paul as a person. The great champion on the field we all know and we all remember him in the national legend of 1982, the one that Saturday accompanied him on his last trip: his brothers, because they were not only friends those who shared the most beautiful world championship that united many generations, but were like brothers. Let's remember his goals in the national team, in Juve, even the most negative periods he lived in Perugia and Milan. But he was Paolo Rossi especially in his beloved Lanerossi Vicenza. The Vicenza who adopted him and gave him the honorary citizenship. That Vicenza that Friday, with great composure and also with discretion - which was then one of Paul's gifts - greeted him first at the stadium and then during his funeral. Paul was not just a friend to me, because he was a friend to all those with whom he immediately entered into empathy. With whoever approached him was always him, simple, with his smile, his jokes, his kindness, his generosity, that altruism that put on the field, in sport, but that was part of his life. You've done so well. You've done so much charity. He was a person who believed a lot in solidarity and for this he was loved by everyone. He was also loved by those who did not follow soccer. Each of us, I think I can also say this on behalf of this House, of all our colleagues and colleagues, has thanks to him unforgettable memories linked to our life, to a piece of history in this country. Paolo Rossi was a champion of values, a champion in and out of the field. He taught us how to cultivate sacrifice and he suffered so much. He rediscovered Italy as a united nation, a people who in his emotions found the identity and strength to look at themselves and move forward, says my friend Fabio Poli of the Italian football club. Yesterday, then, President Gabriele Gravina wrote this beautiful open letter: Paul will remember him forever with his arms in the sky, his smile on his lips and the Tricolor on his heart. Or again, a journalist friend from Vicenza, Antonio Di Lorenzo, said on Friday: It is not only Vicenza that parades on the green of the Minti stadium, but the whole of Italy. Antonio Cabrini said that Paul was fast and went away so, quickly, in silence. But his memory will never die and it is not rhetoric, because he has really embraced so many generations Now, however, it is up to us to remember him as he would have wished. There will be many times when we will remember him, we will do initiatives and events, we will dedicate together, even in our city of Vicenza, an important place as he deserves. The last words I want to express to you remembering and embracing also from the Senate Hall his wonderful family, the beautiful wife Federica, the daughters Maria Vittoria and Sofia Elena and his son Alessandro. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: Paul said that death is simply moving into the next room. Here, I want to think this, that Paul will always be beside his family and all of us who loved him. Thanks Paolo, hi Pablito. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u11	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I read the news of the sudden disappearance of the great football player Paolo Rossi on Thursday 10 December in the early morning, as many of us do, watching the smartphone, my feeling was of disbelief, I immediately thought of a fake news of bad taste, linked to the disappearance of Maradona. This feeling turned into a veil of sadness that accompanied me for a couple of days, when unfortunately the agencies confirmed the sad news. The figure of Paolo Rossi was indissolubly linked to the blue triumph of the football world championship of Spain in 1982, an event that was not only - the President has already reminded us - a great sporting victory, as had to tell us the historic three-fold announcement of Nando Martellini that we were champions of the world, but that victory was the emblem of those eighties that closed the darkest period of terrorism and determined the moral and economic revival of our country. Paolo Rossi - Pablito, as he was renamed - was therefore one of the protagonists of a significant stage in the Italian history of the post-war period. He was undoubtedly one of the strongest players ever in world football, as it was sealed by the 1982 Golden Ball, by the successes in the clubs of Lanerossi Vicenza, Perugia and especially Juventus. He played the role of attacker intelligently and cleverly. Of course, Paolo Rossi was not the classic break-in center as Giorgio Chinaglia or Christian Vieri were, but his characteristics were the speed, the sense of the right position at the right time, the agility, almost scored the goals in a polite way, a politeness that he also had in leaving this world, on tiptoes, with the confidentiality and intelligence that have always distinguished him, but really too soon. Our Group also extends its deepest condolences to the whole family. With you goes a piece of history of our country and also an important part of the carefree years of our youth. Thank you, Paolo, thank you, world champion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u14	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I have heard a great deal in these days of commemorating and reminding everyone, with great affection, Paolo Rossi and perhaps everyone has come to mind that in recent years we have not recognized the greatness and value, not only sports, that he has represented for our nation. He was certainly a great footballer and, as has just been mentioned, he was also "Pallone d'oro" (Golden Ball), the top scorer at the 1982 World Championship, won by Italy, also winning two teams. But I want to remind you that he always said that his pride was the blue shirt; not that of Vicenza, Juve or another team, but the blue shirt. He identified himself with the role of center forward of the national team and this role went beyond the sporting aspect. In 1982 Italy was still with the hangovers, perhaps not even with the hangovers, but with the tail of national terrorism, that of the Red Brigades, and it was still behind the massacres that had occurred for not many years. It was a divided and divisive Italy in which - I want to remember - the Tricolor was seen with distrust; who had it, kept it in the drawer. Who had it, sometimes looked suspiciously. I do not want to say anything else so as not to be partisan on this occasion. I believe that the victory of Italy, with the other splendid protagonists of that adventure - fortunately still almost all of us, although unfortunately not Scirea - but above all Paolo Rossi, allowed an explosion of love for our homeland that went well beyond the sporting and football story. A site that I have just consulted states that it was nice to be Italian in 1982, it was nice to see awakening around the name of Paolo Rossi a feeling that united people of completely different political orientations, all with the Tricolor in hand. It was a miracle. There is so much talk, rightly, of what the victory of Bartali at the Tour de France had in the immediate post-war period. It is said that he saved Italy from the revolution. I believe that Paolo Rossi did something different, but perhaps, in a certain sense, greater because he gave Italy a national soul. Why not say how things really were? Of course, it took a few years later the work of the great President Ciampi who, on the lines of re-evaluation of the feeling and national identity, did the work. However, it was Paolo Rossi's National team that gave us this opportunity, beyond the sporting satisfaction. I remember that summer I went abroad and the humblest people as soon as they saw us and understood that we were Italians shouted at us "PaoloRossi", all attacked. He had become the most famous Italian in the world and the most proud Italian in the world. Then I give him a great homage and a great affection. I had the honor and pleasure of meeting him. I can't call myself a friend because I've seen him in my life at most seven times, but I've had the opportunity to appreciate his way of being, his simplicity, his humanity and his ability to fly high over divisions. Sorry if I end up not with a controversy, but with a necessary note from me and my political movement. As you have seen in no statement we tried to put his political shirt on; yet in 1999 he had applied to Europeans with National Alliance and never denied that choice. I expected some newspapers to remember that, which would happen if he ran left. However, we did not complain. I complain about something different, Mr President, namely that the RAI, the state service, in an extraordinary edition of 90th minute, has decided to invite Di Maio and one of the journalists to commemorate him and I do not mean more hateful, I will say here more divisive that there are, like Scanzi, that nothing has to do - either - with sport and much less with Paolo Rossi. [[Applause]] Let Paolo Rossi, as we did, who if anything had the titles, belong to everyone. Let's not throw the shirt at Paolo Rossi, who has only one shirt: the blue one with the tricolor printed on the chest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u17	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to commemorate a man who left us at the age of sixty-four, struck by a tumor, in this dramatic 2020. We rightly want to remember this in such a solemn way in the Senate House of the Republic, because this man - the eternal boy with the number 20 shirt of Italy - has left a mark in the recent history of our country. Yes, Paolo Rossi was the symbol of that Italy that won the 1982 World Cup, a kind champion who with his goals united an entire country and made everyone happy: lovers of football, sport and more. It was just so, because it made that summer unforgettable and it is no coincidence that his death struck everyone, even those who were not yet born in 1982. What a bitter coincidence: they left, a few days away from each other, Diego Armando Maradona and Paolo Rossi. Emanuela Audisio, on the pages of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" writes that Paolo Rossi was our Maradona, but in the manner of Paolo Rossi: two completely different personalities, two technically different players, but both made the recent history of football in our country. Pablito with the blue shirt of Italy, Maradona with that of Naples; Paolo Rossi stopped for two seasons for the scandal of the football match, Diego Armando Maradona with his life tribulated by excesses. 1982: I want to remember that summer of thirty-eight years ago, because thanks to Italy of football we returned to show in the squares behind the tricolor, united. We had terrible years behind us, and others we would have experienced later. Two years earlier there had been the massacre at Bologna station, four years before the abduction and killing of Aldo Moro and - again - we Neapolitans were in the midst of the post-earthquake emergency of 23 November 1980. Well, in that summer of thirty-eight years ago we rediscovered happiness and it was precisely the President of the Republic Sandro Pertini who interpreted that state of mind. His irrepressible joy next to King Juan Carlos, to whom he said: With these blues there is none for anyone, he made him spokesperson of our common feeling. But how, with all the problems we have we think about the victory of the World Cup? This asked the TG2 envoy Italo Moretti to President Pertini, while the presidential plane brought home the blue heroes. He answered: The week is seven days, and Sunday is made to rest and rejoice. Well, today is Sunday, tomorrow will be Monday. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 82 was not just Paolo Rossi's national team. We remember them all: Bearzot, Zoff, Tardelli, Bergomi, Cabrini, Graziani, Antognoni, Gentile, Collovati, Scirea, Oriali, Conti. In short, he won an entire team and the members of that team remained friends forever and all of them, the extraordinary boys of '82, are part of our lives. Thank you, champs. Thank you, Paolo Rossi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u20	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I thank the Presidency for this solemn moment. There is an epic in life, and especially in sport, to which some are destined. Paolo Rossi was. He was and is a national hero, with naturalness, with simplicity, with the smile of a boy like a million others, as we were guys who went to school half an hour before he played the bell to play ball in the piece of asphalt in front of the front door, with an improvised ball and two stones or two jacket put on the ground to mark the posts of the door; as a million of us for every Sunday morning or Saturday afternoon spent on humid fields, full of mud, which were our happiness and which are the happiness of our children. I am thinking of the emotions of trips or home games, of the championships of the very young, of the students, of the second category of our countries, of our provincial cities. Paolo Rossi incarnated a world, he incarnated an era; he was a champion and a champion. Easy, squeaky, impregnable. Paolo Rossi was a legend long before that July 5, 1982 at the Sarriá Stadium in Barcelona, long before the World Cup. He became legendary with the team Lanerossi Vicenza, who led a few minutes from the Scudetto, when already from the right wing he had become formidable and brilliant centerpiece and game builder, builder of spaces, geometries in the field as he was able to demonstrate at the World Championships of 1978 in Argentina, where the blue shirt and Paolo Rossi became one forever. Like all heroes, Mr President, he fell down and was able to rise again after the knee injuries, after the ignoble and unjust pillage, which he never wanted to accept, of the investigation of the football match. It was Bearzot who waited for him and wanted him at the World Championships in Spain and arrived on July 5 at 5 o'clock in the evening, when Paolo Rossi defeated Brazil. The Brazilians still say crying: "The man who defeated Brazil". As in a legend greater than us, as great as a country, Italy, that has been coming out for years dark and terrible. That evening and the following, however, Italy was filled with joy and full of hope for the future, and could celebrate with Rossi, with Bearzot with President Pertini, with all the boys of the mundial, that we should remember one by one and that a few days ago they took Paolo Rossi shoulder by giving him the last farewell. Mr President, every history of football is a story of collective memory, full of a thousand other stories; the stories of each of us, of an entire country, of our Italy. Paolo Rossi is the player who has been able to enter the legend, whose name is imprinted in the history of world football and in the collective history of a country - ours -, in the family and sentimental history of each of us, of every Italian. Osvaldo Soriano, a great writer and a missed footballer, wrote: every time I entered the penalty area I had the impression of earning a few moments of paradise. Here, a few moments of paradise is what Paolo Rossi gave to each of us, forever. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u23	Barachini (FIBP-UDC). His smile, the blue jersey number 20, his arms raised to the sky: this is the image that will remain with us forever. A cry of joy: one, two, three times, all in the same match against Brazil; then, again, in the final, on the magic night of Madrid, to transform hope into a dream, waiting in a unique and unrepeatable moment. "PaoloRossi," all attacked, as his fans called it, and above all as the opponents called it, who feared him like no other. A gracious physicist from a young age, when he dreamed of being an astronaut, not a footballer, not a phenomenon of athleticism, but capable of an extraordinary will and speed that allowed him to anticipate the moves of others. Fate in the name, a common name from "Mr. Rossi," in fact, became unique, pride of a country and a generation. The National Paul, the "Pablito mundial," who took us in a few days where no one would dare to imagine, because in front of there were phenomena, predestined: on the one hand, opponents who seemed unbeatable, on the other, our boys of Spain 1982, with that apparently fragile center forward, on the other, intimidated by a long disqualification, but ready to guide what would turn out to be a collective collection. The recovery of a country that came out of social struggles, economic crisis, political divisions, from the senseless storm of terrorism. From his goals, from the hugs of the blues, from the tricolor flags, from the festivals of the square Italy found confidence, optimism, the desire to raise his head and win many challenges, knowing a moment of authentic, unexpected and total happiness. That unforgettable moment that we all remember; we remember where we were, we remember close to who we were, as we remember the rhyme of formation: Zoff, Gentile, Cabrini (...). The images of Spain '82, without taking anything away from our other sporting triumphs, remain the most familiar ones, because accompanied by that simple smile, fresh, that said everything and united the country, beyond the belongings, rivalries, typhus, sympathies. A choral test of a group so determined and close to the point of making the blue jersey the dress of the feast of an entire country, who wanted to go out and shout the joy of a community found. An extraordinary gift on those evenings of June and July, an epiphany out of season, the triumph of an Italy that became part of the national one and the unbridled exultation of its president, Sandro Pertini. Paolo Rossi was the architect of those sentiments, as recognized by his own companions, inseparable in the field and in friendship. From that spirit of team Paolo Rossi was able to pull out the right energies, even in moments of loneliness, when certainties and solidarity seemed to fail. Paul, as he liked to repeat in the interviews, and as he wrote in the book about his life, he often saw himself leaning on the edges of Bernabeu, happy to see all those happy and carefree people. He said he strongly wanted that moment not to end, that it lasted forever; but then he knew how to wake up, undress himself of the superhero's dress and return to being a normal man, a father, a husband, finding happiness and attachment to life, day after day, until the last, even in illness. From the champion to man, the same person inspired by the values in which Paul always believed, beginning with his faith, never exhibited, cultivated in the intimate sphere, far from the spotlight. A champion, never a character, as he said Saturday morning, during the funerals, Fr Pierangelo; a sensitive man, a champion who had risen from falls and injuries and who gave us a lesson of strength, dignity and love even in the last days. We saw our heroes of '82, each in his place, get excited Saturday morning as in the field, with the emotion, the spirit, the same desire to be a family. On behalf of the Forza Italia Group I join with affection the pain of all my family and friends, with the touching participation of our country, which greeted a true man, an open, loyal, ironic person, attached to the roots of his Prato, but capable of becoming a son also of other cities: Perugia, Turin, Milan, Verona and its sporting homeland, Vicenza. To his wife Federica, to his daughters Maria Vittoria and Sofia Elena, to Alessandro and to his mother Simonetta, our deepest thanks for having testified to a style, a closeness, a union that should be encouraging, also and above all in the great proof that we are facing as a country, institutions and civil community, and that we will have to support even in the difficult weeks before us. Remembering him in this Chamber of Palazzo Madama - I believe I interpret the general sentiment - we are sure that we had in Paolo Rossi a sample of genuine generosity, cultivated in the values that matter, that are and must be the pride of our Italy yesterday, today and tomorrow. Paolo Rossi: a flag of our Italian being. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u26	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we cling to the family and to all the sport (the one with the tiny S) for the loss of the great Paolo Rossi. From a very young age he revealed a great talent and came to Vicenza that he looked like a boy to play on the local team. He enchanted and conquered our city with his smile and simplicity. Paolo Rossi was a normal boy, even if he had everything extraordinary. He was the guy that apparently everyone could be: smiling, confident, generous, serious in training, humble even in the face of great results, as he demonstrated during his brilliant career and very far from the divisms that have dragged many sportsmen. Vicenza always loved that boy, then became champion and he always loved Vicenza and here he kept contacts, friends and interests, so much so as to choose it as a place to celebrate the last solemn greeting. Italy in those days was trying to leave behind the tormented periods of the years of lead. Everything was being reborn and, equally to Vicenza's team, goal after goal, that world had an acceleration and everything became possible. Thanks to Paolo Rossi, Lanerossi Vicenza climbed from Serie B to Serie A and then, in a year, to second place, behind Juventus. It was an amazing football ransom that went hand in hand with a province that in a few years had established itself as the capital of gold. As Paolo Rossi accompanied the Lanerossi to the honours of the sports chronicle, this wonderful athlete, together with his companions, brought to the mythical triumph of 1982 that team that perhaps only we Italians believed. In our history that victory was the first to be shared by all. They were the good moments of that Italy; the one that really knew how to believe and hope. The World Cup matches were a way to be together, all drawn by the great enthusiasm of Paolo Rossi's goals and a strong feeling of belonging to our nation. Pablito was a great champion, a great sportsman passionate and simple, of great dignity and capable. He will remain forever in our thoughts and hearts as Italians. In Vicenza, we all cried his disappearance. They move the images of the long rows for the fiery chamber at the Minti Stadium and the mourning at the cathedral of the entire population. We have seen the old comrades of the great 1982 team and the great friends of all time carry the coffin. We'll never forget that. Sports, young people and all of us need good heroes and he was. Have a good trip, Paolo! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u29	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, senators and senators, I would like to thank all my previous colleagues, with the exception of Senator La Russa. I would have a lot of information to reply to your speech, but I am abstaining for the sake of respect for the moment. [[Applause]] In 1982 I was 25 years old. There were no social media and smartphones. The network still didn't offer everything that is available today and football was the main aggregation that allowed us to discuss in lightness. We were all coaches, each with his own solution. When the national team played, however, they all felt on the same side and the matches were an opportunity to find each other. I remember very well the 1982 World Championship: the first three games, under the expectations of that Italy of Bearzot, had not satisfied the public opinion and some criticisms drew for the jacket the technical commissioner to replace Paolo Rossi in view of the matches with Brazil and Argentina. I myself told my friends that if we had gone on shift I would run from Sassuolo to Magreta (about seven kilometers) and I remember that, when it happened that we passed the turn, a tail of cars and motorcycles followed me in honoring the commitment. Today, in paying homage to a formidable champion I wonder: what is football for Italians? Competition, anger, resentment, desire for challenge, great joys, disappointments, unbridled typhus and a lot of passion. There are many men who have fed our passion for football, but very few are those who have united all Italians, historically divided among their football faiths. Paolo Rossi was this: an athlete who knew how to transform himself into glue for the whole Italian society. After all, our national team has always represented the desire for victory around which we all strive indistinguishably. The one of Italy is one of the faiths that unites us all. Too often we do not properly manifest our Italianity and that is why there are Paolo Rossi; the great players who remind us how much we love our country. Colleagues, it hurts to remember people who have represented so much in our lives, even if only through a TV screen or from the stands of a stadium. There are men who have enriched our soul, and when a piece of it goes away it is torn away and it hurts. In the life of Paolo Rossi we can read many metaphors, all inserted within an existence full of a great man. Paolo Rossi was a man who was able to rise several times. His world triumph in 1982 cannot and must not be read only from the sporting point of view, although of course exceptional, but his human experience must make people think that during their lives they have suffered rough breaks, not always due to their own will. The two-year stop that Paolo Rossi had to face was a very difficult moment for him, but as a strong man who has always been able to start immediately, even with a goal, on his return in the last days of the 1982 championship: only the prelude to the leading role in the Italian dreams of the Spanish World Championship. The metaphors in Paolo Rossi do not end here: he himself in his autobiography describes himself as a normal man; not a champion, not an athlete with overflowing physical performance, but one who has been able to do it with daily commitment and with the strength of will: one of us in short. Then I want to address not only you colleagues, but all the Italians who are struggling in this crisis today: we are all normal men, let's tuck our hands in and together we will succeed, as Paolo Rossi did. I want to conclude my memory with a phrase of the same Paolo Rossi that I believe is more current than ever and that must serve as a warning and stimulus for all of us in this difficult phase of crisis for the country: "You can be crushed by something that captures us without us doing anything to happen. You can become a victim and not be able to prove it. Colleagues, today we are all blameless victims of this virus from afar. Let's all get up together; maybe 2021 will also help, with what we hope will be the "magic nights" of the European football in memory of Paolo Rossi. Hi, Paolo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u30	We suspend our work, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.23 p.m. and resumed at 6.41 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u31	The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current week's calendar and the new calendar until 21 December. The general discussion of the decree-restoration laws will take place until 9 p.m. this evening to continue tomorrow morning, starting at 11 a.m. In order to allow the meeting of a parliamentary group, the Commissions will not be able to meet from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Wednesday 16, at 9.30 a.m., motions on restrictions on circulation in the national territory during the Christmas period will be discussed. From 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., the Senate's accounts and internal accounts will be discussed. The agenda of the sitting of Thursday 17 previews the resolution of questions for a preliminary ruling, ex Article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, on the decree-law immigration and international protection and, to follow, the discussion of the same decree until 8.30 p.m., which will continue, if necessary, also on Friday 18 and Saturday 19 December. The Assembly will meet again at 5 p.m. on Monday 21 December with communications from the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u32	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current week's calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 21 December: [[Monday, December 14, h. 16,30-21 - Drawing of law n. 1994 - Decree-Law n. 137, Ristori (expands on December 27) - Motions on restrictions on circulation in the national territory during the Christmas period (Wednesday 16, 9.30 am) - Doc. VIII, Nos. 5 and 6 - Report and Internal Budget of the Senate (Wednesday 16, 15 hours) - Deliberation of preliminary questions pursuant to article 78, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the bill n. 2040 - Decree-Law n. 130, Immigration and International Protection (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Thursday 17, 9.30 a.m.) - Drawing of law n. 2040 - Decree-Law n. 130, Immigration and International Protection (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 20 December) Tuesday 15 " h. 11 Wednesday 16 " h. 9.30 Thursday 17 " h. 9.30-20.30 Friday 18 " h. 9.30 (if necessary) Saturday 19 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 2040 (Decree-Law No 130, Immigration and International Protection) will be fixed in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Monday 21 December h. 17 - Communications of the President]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1994 (Decree-Law No. 137, Ristori) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 27' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' FIBP-UDC 1 h. 2' PD 49' Mixed 46' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2040 (Decree-Law No 130, Immigration and International Protection) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 2' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 44' PD 35' Mixed 33' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1994. The rapporteurs, Senators Presutto and Marino, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Presutto.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u34	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government, the persistence of the pandemic by Covid-19 and the peak generated by the second round have made it necessary to adopt new decrees of the Presidency of the Council to deal with the current emergencies, providing for restrictions aimed at limiting the spread of the contagion. At the same time, the Government has taken progressive action to support the economic sectors most affected by the restrictions resulting from the pandemic. These measures have followed the development of economic difficulties by providing responses that can adapt to the various needs. These measures are contained in four decree-laws: the first, called ristori, is followed by the restori- bis, the restori- ter and the ristori-c, which have been transformed into amendments to the decree-restori. These measures, for the characteristics that I have just reported, must be considered organically, remembering also that they will shortly follow another decree-law, a sort of five ristori, which will serve to give a further response of support to our economic and productive system, with the objective to support all those activities that, although not having closed, have however recorded decreases of turnover, because they are part of the supply chains connected to closed activities. Today we are called in this House to discuss and vote on the bill of conversion of the decree-restoration laws, which has a total dowry of more than EUR 19 billion to strengthen and extend the protection network around our productive economic fabric. During my speech I will explain to you the characteristics of the part of the bill linked to the one and two restaurants. The other rapporteur will be responsible for explaining the rest of the decrees. With the decree-ristori law, the Government has intended to strengthen the protection network around the economic categories most affected by the restrictions introduced by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 24 October 2020, through interventions in support of enterprises, the economy, the work and related to health and safety. With regard to business and the economy in particular, a grant was established for all activities affected by the latest restrictions, which provided for an automatic quick refreshment directly on the current account, without needing to fill out forms and with increases that, compared to the previous refreshment of the decree-law relaunch, reach up to 400 percent. Commercial activities were also supported by the recognition of a tax credit on property rentals for October, November and December and by the cancellation of the second IMU instalment. Real estate enforcement procedures for the first house were suspended until 31 December 2020. Aid has been provided for tourism and culture and resources have been allocated to support the internationalisation of Italian companies. As regards work, the Integration Fund was extended for a further six weeks (until 31 January 2021) or, alternatively, a further four weeks of contributory relief was granted, including the blocking of dismissals and the suspension of contributory payments for workers of companies affected by the DPCM in November. For seasonal workers, including those of tourism, entertainment, intermittent workers, door-to-door workers and service providers, a one-off allowance of EUR 1 000 has been provided. For those who have benefited from the emergency income, two more months have been provided. On the other hand, as regards health, the capacity for rapid diagnosis of cases of positiveness at the Covid-19 has been strengthened through the allocation of resources for the implementation of a plan for rapid antigenic swabs and resources have been provided to allow family doctors and pediatricians to make rapid swabs to speed up the tracking. In order to ensure that less well-off students also benefit from PCs, tablets and network connection, an additional 85 million have been allocated for distance teaching. As far as security is concerned, resources are provided for the Police and Fire Departments and interventions in the field of justice, to extend and simplify remote connections for criminal and civil proceedings and to facilitate closed-door hearings in civil and criminal proceedings. Other interventions are planned on the penitentiary order, with the aim of containing the contagions inside the prisons. With the decree-ristori- bis law, the Government intended to provide rapid economic aid to the sectors affected by the restrictive measures contained in the DPCM of 3 November, with which Italy was divided into three risk zones related to the Covid-19 and classified as yellow, orange and red, decreeing the total closure of many activities in the red and orange ones. There was provision for non-refundable contributions to the closed activities as a result of this DPCM and, at the same time, the refreshment rates provided for in the ristori decree were increased. In addition, the measure increases the number of economic activities identified through the Ateco codes covered by grants, on the basis of the ristori decree. With regard to businesses and the economy, in particular for red areas, compensation for loss of income is provided by direct transfers on current account up to 200 per cent of what was already paid in April with the decree to relaunch; for orange areas, a 50% increase for ice cream shops, bars, pastry shops and hotels, which is added to what is already laid down by the first order for ristori, reaching 200 per cent. Extensions are also planned for companies' tax obligations, the cancellation of the December IMU instalment for the owners and managers of the activities affected by the DPCM and falling in the red areas and the recognition of a tax credit that can be transferred to 60% for the rental of commercial activities for October, November and December. As regards employment, payments of social security and welfare contributions for private employers with operational headquarters in the territories covered by the new restrictive measures have been suspended. The integration fund is expected to be extended to include recruitment after 13 July 2020. As regards support for families, on the other hand, special leave has been provided for the closure of schools for parents of pupils of first grade secondary schools and the recognition of the baby-sitting bonus for families living in regions in the red zone. The special fund was also set up for the support of third sector bodies and resources were allocated for the financing of the CAFs involved in the processing of declarations essential for the use of the various facilitated social benefits. For the strengthening of the fund created by the decree relaunch for local public transport, 300 million have been allocated: one third of the resources can be used for the use of additional services also intended for students and the remaining two thirds can be used to cover the losses caused by the reduction of revenues in these months of strong restrictions. In conclusion of my speech, I would like to highlight the amending work on this decree-law carried out in the Joint Budget and Finance Commissions, which has focused the attention of all of us on some issues of shared collective interest that meet the needs of Italian citizens. At a critical moment like what we are experiencing, we wanted to give a concrete response to the country and we will maintain this line also with the next measures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u35	I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, together with Senator Presutto, we have decided to follow a somewhat different and even somewhat irrational pattern than being the expression of the 5th and 6th Commission. We thought of distributing in a transversal way the narration of what had happened, dividing, as you heard from the words that the colleague has just expressed, the relationship between decree restori, which is the main element on which we have gone to graft the additional elements that we will now face, and the decree restori two, on the one hand, which illustrated Senator Presutto, and the decree restori three and four, on the other. We thought it would be easier to reason this way. I must say that, in sixteen years as a Member of Parliament, I had never had to face such a complex and complex path as we have seen. I am referring to the fact that the incorporation of three decrees-laws on one principal, knowing that the other three would be made to lapse, using the instrument of the amendments by the Government, was a necessary thing, which also responded to an urgency. The real theme of our action was to give quick and effective answers. We then thought that the instrument of government amendments could be extremely useful in combining these two aspects: rapid and effective instruments. At the same time, a very useful and constructive path has developed with the opposition and for this I thank, on the one hand, the attention and conviction that the Government has placed in building it and, on the other hand, the willingness of the opposition to reason preferring the interests of the country to those that could be political contingents. It is the necessity that leads us to this; it is that which surrounds us to lead us to this. There will be occasion in replica to detail more precisely and punctually, because now I must limit myself to the narration of the decrees restori three and four. However, I would like to highlight this, because it is a work in progress that has had extremely positive effects and I think that we must all be proud, in a cross-cutting way: there are the two majority rapporteurs and the two opposition rapporteurs, but - good or bad - we all pulled on the same side and, in the nights we spent together to achieve this result, I think that with a little pride we have highlighted that the main interest was that of the country. This has led us to an important recognition of the work of the opposition, which has also had a rather significant outlet from the formal economic point of view compared to the availability assigned to Parliament, with an important team game with the Government, which I particularly thank, both in the figure of the Undersecretary Guerra, who has worked with a particular level of attention to the development of the measure, and of the Minister D'Incà, here present. Having said this, if this is the general picture, having the colleague well illustrated the main part, what he went on to graft the whole, that is the decree one restori, which then suffered, as well explained in a precise and punctual way, significant transformations already with the decree two restori - think of the changes to the code Ateco - then intervened the decree restori three and four. We have therefore decided, in a team game between the two of us, not to follow a division of competences between 5th and 6th Commission, but between the four decrees. In the end, I will make a very quick assessment of the work that we will have to do in the future. It is clear to everyone, in fact, that it does not end here, but this means positioning oneself to build a complex path, which I think will be useful for the country as a whole. So by attacking the restorative theme, we start from the refinancing of measures to support companies affected by the epidemiological emergency to then develop the non-profit contribution for retailers, footwear and accessories, moving on to urgent measures of food solidarity, to arrive then to the purchase and distribution of medicines for the care of patients affected by the Covid-19, allowing an increase of 100 million euros for 2020 of the Fund for national emergencies for the purpose of the purchase and distribution in the national territory of medicines for the care of patients Covid-19, as provided for in Article 3. Why did I mention this article in particular? Because it gives the sense of the work in progress with which, on the one hand, we tried to build for the future, but, on the other, we also had to manage the emergency. In fact, we cannot ignore the management of the emergency without looking to the future, but - at the same time - we cannot look to the future if we do not manage the emergency, which is a bit the difficulty - let us be honest - that we have been dealing with at the moment when we have examined these issues. Article 4 provides for the abolition of the possibility of extension of aid. Then there are a series of rather limited financial provisions that, together with Article 5 (additional units that contribute to the determination of the public finance balances of the consolidated financial account of the public administrations), wanted to represent an additional piece, a small brick that we put in the construction of the path that, as I said, was born with the first decree ristori, develops with the decree ristori- bis and arrives at the decree ristori- ter. On the other hand, it was the approach of the ristori-c, because it was rather challenging from the economic point of view, although much of this economic commitment has in fact been exhausted in the extension of the deadline for the payment of the second payment of income tax and IRAP, in the suspension of payments in December, in the extension of the deadline for the submission of declarations on income tax and IRAP, in the extension of the payment of the break-up-b, in the extension of the payments of the single erarial levy on entertainment equipment, in the extension of the application of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 137 of 28 October 2020 (i.e. broadening the logic of the Ateco codes, which is something on which we all seem to agree and which we will try to overcome in perspective with the next measure). The attempt was then made to intervene in a somewhat more surgical way with the rationalization of the institute of installment, as is the case in Article 7, which makes both structural and temporary changes to the discipline of the installment of the sums entered in the role. It then went on to identify persons exempt from IMU payment, in Article 8. Article 9 dealt with the issue of benefits for certain categories of workers, seeking to define the specifications set out in the previous decrees. Let me say that this has been a chisel work, in some respects, aimed at a precise and precise definition born from the insights made to try to achieve a result as acceptable as possible. We then moved on to the increase in the Single Fund for the support of amateur sports associations and societies and to the allowances for sports professionals. I do not make a precise and punctual list of what we have done, but I repeat that in the decree ristori-c there has been a wider intervention, in order to try to represent the container in which to keep together what had already been done in the first three decrees ristori. Mr President, since the time available is running out, I shall conclude by saying that this is an important job, but that it will necessarily need an outlet in a further measure, the ristori-d, which will represent the hat that, coming out of the emerging logic, will allow to resume some of the significant interventions that could not have been found, even from an amending point of view (I speak for both the majority and the minority), within the first four measures. However, this measure also wants to be a regulatory rationalization - taxonomic, I would say - of an overall vision that comes out of the emerging logic, to establish that, in a clear, precise and punctual way, Government, majority and minority build a path. A great deal will be read about the intervention of the minority and the important amendments that have been adopted... President, Senator Marino, I invite you to conclude. MARINO, rapporteur. I will finish with that, Mr President. I think it is the terminal part that allows us to understand what was the construction of the building as a whole and not just done by a series of spot interventions. I believe that, with this logic, from today we begin a path and I thank all those who have collaborated with you carefully. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u37	Minority reporters, Senators Ferrero and Toffanin, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrero.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the path of the decrees-restoration laws has been long and troubled. The so-called ristori package is the result of a series of measures that have followed and overlapped in recent months, with the declared intention to offer support to the activities hard hit by the economic crisis following the restrictive measures of containment and contrast to the epidemiological emergency Covid adopted by the government. There are several critical points that can be raised, both in terms of method and merit. With regard to the method, it should be stressed that the way in which the Government decides to proceed through extemporaneous interventions, linked to the contingent situation, denouncing the total absence of a strategic vision, not so much in the long term (it would not, however, be the most suitable location), but not even in the medium term, to the point that very few of the measures contained in the four decree-laws that today make up the text in the examination of this branch of Parliament, adopted a few weeks from each other, in an attempt to pursue needs and demands that have been manifested over time by the categories affected by the increasing restrictive measures decided by the Government, have a time horizon of intervention that reaches or exceeds only three months. This is a way that, although it may appear consistent with reference to the specific measures intended to contain the spread of the virus, is poorly reconciled with economic and fiscal interventions, generating serious uncertainty in the economic and social fabric of the country, whose survival is put at serious risk - it is worth remember - from the most profound economic crisis since the Second World War to the present. This method of proceeding has had inevitable repercussions on parliamentary work, which took place, again on this occasion, in a completely abnormal way, de facto resetting the parliamentary debate in the Commissions, continuing in that process of expelling the prerogatives of Parliament opened up with the DPCM season and the establishment of a plethora of task forces in support of the Government, without any democratic legitimacy, yet so decisive, by their decisions, for the lives of citizens. However, they asked for responsibility and a spirit of cooperation to the oppositions, who tried to make their contribution: on the one hand they contributed, on some occasions proving decisive in finding the resources necessary to finance all the emerging economic interventions that have been adopted in these difficult months, through the authorisation of the four budgetary deviations for the current year, leading the net debt to reach 10.4% of GDP, according to the estimates of the Government, for a total of 108,3 billion additional debt authorized for this financial year. On the other hand, hundreds (to the thousands) were the proposals put forward by the opposition groups to this measure aimed at improving the content, without any obstructive intent, but with the sole aim of bringing to the table the demands of many of the categories that have suffered the most negative economic effects of the health crisis. Yet, once again, the majority have proved deaf to our demands, granting a very narrow space of intervention and mainly worrying to keep the government firm. Even with regard to the substance of the Ristori package, it should be noted that several criticalities have not been overcome in the parliamentary passage. From the point of view of the resources, it is evident that the first two decree-laws have an impact, in terms of greater deficit, of approximately 5 billion euros for the year 2020; about 7.8 billion is in fact the sum of the greater expenses and the less revenues determined by the measures in them previewed, which find cover in little more than 2.8 billion euros of less expenses, while the last approved decree-law uses substantially all the 8 billion euros of net debt authorized last November. What, however, seems interesting to point out, in the analysis of the means of coverage used in the measure under consideration, is that, among the different savings of expenditure used, not only those resulting from the reduction of the authorizations of expenditure related to the various allowances recognized by the Italian decree-law cure, but above all those deriving from the very reduced draw of tax credit holidays, contested measure ab origin from the oppositions, considered ineffective if aimed at giving support to the tourist-receptive sector. Not only that, but the same reduction of 5.2 billion euros of the fund's budget to ensure liquidity for the payments of certain, liquid and due debts of the public administration, shows how insensitive this Government is to the issue of the lack of liquidity of the companies, addressed through the scheme of tax credits or the incentive to debt and not, as it should be, guaranteeing the actual revenues in the coffers of the companies in difficulty, holding large credits to the public administration still outstanding. With regard to the content of the individual measures envisaged, it cannot be stressed, however, that, despite the demands from the entire national productive world, the Government has failed and has not, for the time being, overcome the logic of the Ateco codes in the identification of persons entitled to the grant, referred to in Article 1 of this measure, generating a series of clamorous and unjustified exclusions and finding themselves having to modify the annex from time to time, without being able to find a solution that would recognize the refreshment - or compensation, as you like to call it more - to all the operators belonging to the production chains involved by the closures. The failure to revise the same calculation parameter of the aforementioned contribution, anchored to the turnover differential of April 2020 compared to April 2019, shows once again how far this majority is from the reality that Italian small and medium-sized enterprises are experiencing. The tax extensions and suspensions, introduced precisely by Decree-Law 157 of 2020, then arrived at the deadlines themselves, helping to aggravate the uncertainty situation of economic operators, rather than trying to thin the clouds on the horizon. It is also important to extend to 1 March 2021 the balance of the instalments of the simplified definition plans, suspended by decree-law cure Italy, provided for in Article 13-b.4, which will place taxpayers who have activated the plans and benefited from the suspension in the condition of having to pay not only the suspended installments, but also the current installments in February 2021 (so, three installments in the same month). Collaboration with oppositions has been requested, a constructive attitude has been called for. For our part there was, for example, amendment 33.0.8, at the first signature of Senator Rivolta, which recognizes to the Regions an ordinary statute contribution for the reduction of their debt; in this case, it has been transposed, in Article 22 of the decree-ristori-c (now Article 32-b of the text under consideration), of which we take note. Like this, many others were our reasonable and acceptable proposals; yet, there were only four amendments approved by the Lega Group. Despite the efforts of the rapporteurs - which we recognize - and of the undersecretary Maria Cecilia Guerra, always present, I must tell you that the country, in our opinion, needs much more, and this "other" that the country needs is enclosed in the many of our amendments that for now have remained dead letter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u39	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the final stage - at least in our branch of Parliament - of a marathon which, in a month and a half, has seen four decrees-laws hook up, one after the other, but which on the horizon already appears the dd. This succession of measures unfortunately highlights, once again, the shortsightedness of the Government and the majority, who continue to chase the virus without a comprehensive plan of serious and courageous measures in support of health, school, culture, sport and the economy of our country. During the summer, prevention and planning for the restart of schools and activities in September were lacking; in autumn, adequate and timely support for economic activities was lacking as a result of the new restrictions. For effective action, in reality, it was necessary to intervene first on the budgetary deviation (8 billion), not on 26 November, and with a greater consistency, as asked loudly by Forza Italia and the whole opposition, precisely to address the urgency. [[Applause]] It is true that it is debt, but, at this point and in this situation, it is indispensable, in order not to kill our craftsmen, traders, free professionals, VAT matches and self-employed workers, in order to save the millions of jobs that are not saved by the blockade of dismissals, in order not to kill the country and to start starting again. The government, however, first scraped the barrel, taking resources here and there and drawing from all the measures - starting from the Italian care - advanced resources, because not well anticipated, or - this is much more serious - taken from funds already destined, like the 100 million removed from the fund for restaurateurs, the 5 million removed from the fund repealed for the recreational and entertainment sector or the about 5 billion taken from the fund dedicated to the local authorities to pay, as my colleague has well said, the famous debts of the public administration. The government has sought cover for the ristori decrees for about 20 billion everywhere, but it has not thought, for example, to postpone the lottery of the receipt, which in this historical context of emergency and economic, health and social crisis certainly does not constitute and cannot in any way constitute a priority for our country. Among other things, besides foreseeing important costs for the state, also for the recruitment necessary to manage the measure, it affects the shoulders of the traders, for which only a few hundred euros make the difference (think of the streetwalkers, at this time). [[Applause]] In the end, the inevitable but late budgetary deviation of 8 billion has arrived, allocated to finance a large part of the decree-c, which also includes an extension of tax deadlines. Too bad that this extension, although awaited by all, arrived on the same day of the deadline (30 November) and not for everyone, creating great disruptions for the different cases planned. I decline the norm, because so, perhaps together, we can also understand the ratio. In general, the second instalment of income tax and IRAP was moved to 10 December (only ten days). On the other hand, it was moved to 30 April for the exhibitors activities covered by Annexes 1 and 2, including catering services, but only in the red and orange regions. It is really incomprehensible not to have postponed the deadline, for example, also for catering services in the yellow area, given the restrictions of the DCCM of 25 October. [[Applause]] The same must be said for the tax and contribution deadlines of 10 December, postponed this time to 16 March, with the same case history as before, to which are added the subjects of all the national territory, with revenues or compensations not exceeding 50 million euros, that have recorded a decrease of turnover of at least 33 percent in the month of November 2020, regarding the same month of 2019. In short, it is a juniper of inclusions and exclusions and of different deadlines, that do not facilitate all and, for sure, put in trouble the free professionals, to which the taxpayers resort. I would like to stress that Forza Italia, from the beginning, had called for a more effective suspension of tax deadlines, with the white tax semester, even the white fiscal year, but certainly not done in this way. Another juniper is the chapter on grants, which, as far as discrimination is concerned, is second to none. With the system of Ateco codes, the Government has implemented a rule that provides contributions for some (few) and leaves out entire sectors, which, although they are part of the penalized chain, are not even slightly refreshed. Companies housed in the yellow area have seen their turnover collapse, as suppliers of shops and activities closed or semi-closed by the various DPCM. Moreover, the amount of support is calculated as a percentage of the turnover difference of April 2020 on April 2019, a criterion that does not restore objectively, penalising activities with unfavourable seasonality in that month. However, it is now necessary to plan immediately the measures for improvement and integration and it is unthinkable to continue on the same path. Suffice it to point out that, with the system of e-invoicing in force, it is immediate to read the turnover and to consider the fixed costs of the enterprises, just as it is necessary to modify the system of the codes Ateco with the maximum inclusion. Don't leave anyone behind. Let's expand also to those completely forgotten bands as the free professionals, nice or unpathetic that can be, subject only to the bonus of the month of May. And do not expect to intervene, because the timing is as important as the resources made available. In this regard, let me give an example: the decree-law cures Italy before and the decree-law liquidity then had foreseen the possibility to raise the microcredit from 25,000 to 40,000 euros, liquidity important for small and medium-sized enterprises, but the problem is that this intervention was conditioned to an implementing decree that has never been launched (another manifestation of bureaucratic inefficiency, but we are no longer surprised). I have also personally urged several representatives and representatives of the Government, but only now it has been planned to cancel the ministerial decree with an amendment and to give the green light to the increase of the threshold of microcredit. In the meantime, more than eight months have passed since the Italian decree-law-care; eight long months, in which thousands of micro and small enterprises, which I remember being the backbone of the Italian economy, have been waiting not for grants, but for the possibility of contracting debts with which to pay taxes, among other things. It's a very far-fetched thing. [[Applause]] Too many burdens weigh on economic activities. The request for a six-week extended Integration Fund until 31 January 2021 also means that many people pay an additional contribution, forgetting that employers continue to bear the costs of the ancillary institutions of each individual worker (the TFR, social security contributions, holidays, etc.) and that every practice to request shock absorbers entails a cost. It seems, however, that this Commission and this majority do not know how to identify the real problems. Now there are those who think of buying tents and promoting brands for vaccinations, yet I believe that many structures are already available between the Red Cross, the Army and Civil Protection. This new unnecessary and costly intervention is very reminiscent of the purchase of wheelchairs for school; yet the school is not shared. What was done for the school in the decree-restoration laws? Only 85 million have been allocated for distance teaching: choices that are commented on by themselves, certainly deleterious as much as they will affect the future of our children and grandchildren. Then there is the chapter justice: Forza Italia, with all the center-right, has highlighted some important criticalities on the profiles of jurisdiction of the justice, in particular regarding the norms to guarantee the agibilità in the judicial function and the deposit of the acts, first of all that of the chamber of council at distance. As Senator Caliendo has repeatedly pointed out in the Justice Commission, the chambers of council are essential to arrive at a weighted decision and must be carried out in the presence, therefore with non-telematic hearings. Another aspect on which we insisted was the protection for the honorary magistrates who found themselves facing the emergency Covid without the necessary medical insurance cover. I am on strike (including hunger) all over Italy and the amendment approved by the majority; which provides for the payment of the hearing even in written discussion, is absolutely insufficient. Another critical issue we raised concerns civil justice: remembering that the competences of the peace judges are particularly extensive, there is no provision for the filing of documents by electronic means. If a stationery is closed, the user does not know who to interface with. We have tried loudly to explain these problems - I thank Senator Modena in this regard - in order to avoid these serious problems in the field of justice, but we have not been heard yet again. The only openness that the Government and the majority have shown towards the opposition was the acceptance of our three proposals, on which to intervene efficiently for the country: three important issues, signed by the entire centre-right united. The first concerns the reduction of the charges of electricity bills for non-domestic use, through a remission on fixed costs, with a coverage of 180 million euros; the second concerns the support of the conventions between the municipalities and private transport with 90 million, a modality that had to be already foreseen before; the third concerns a fund of 110 million to be allocated to the regions, especially those most affected by the virus and those that, although classified in the yellow zone, have had to impose own restrictions. The intervention on these issues makes our contribution targeted and significant and gives a clear signal on how to intervene. Of course, we are not satisfied with the other proposals which have not been accepted and with the resources allocated to our issues, since they would serve a great deal more. We hope that in future, in the next measures, they will be able to find continuity and, indeed, we consider this moment only a prelude, for a rightful and much more substantial involvement of the opposition, even if the last signs continue to be unpromising in this regard, as evidenced by the discussions on the recovery plan, from which even the majority has been excluded. I would like to end my speech by saying that, perhaps, sometimes it is enough just to look around. Germany has already given companies, in the first lockdown, 75% of the turnover and now announces that, with the second lockdown, it could reach 90% of the turnover. It is true that Germany has a stronger economy than ours, but this also depends on the economic and political choices made by previous governments. In fact, the government must not invent anything, it must not use task forces, but it must take the best from the virtuous examples, opening up to a real involvement of the opposition: in short, it must allow Parliament to do its job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u41	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen and members of the Government, there is only one reason why I am speaking today in general debate, a reason that has been moving for a long time and that all too often seems to be forgotten in this House, which is exceptionality. Many in this House, in their statements, refer to their children. I don't have any kids, but I have two gorgeous teenage grandchildren asking me what's going on in the country. I explain to them, with a metaphor, that Italy, like many other countries, is broken by a disease. It is the disease that affects those infected by the Covid, but it is also that sort of disease, that affects the economic-productive tissue, as a result of the restrictive measures, adopted to contain the contagions. The country is facing a very serious disease, which has the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. The country wears the shoes of a patient who must be given drugs to prepare him for an operation, which will weaken him, because they must slow down or stop the progress of the disease itself, but that will then allow him, passing through a targeted cure and an appropriate rehabilitation, to come back stronger than before. Similarly, the restrictive measures we have taken to contain the pandemic have been like a powerful antibiotic, which has obviously weakened the economic and productive fabric of the country itself. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, it feels like we're in a bar and we're talking about refreshments. I would ask you, please, to draw the attention of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u43	I would like to ask my fellow Members who are entertaining in private conversations to lower the tone of their voice a little, because otherwise we do not hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u44	Please, Senator Santillo. SANTILLO (M5S). When we talk about school, they're all careful. That's why the decree-restoration laws were fundamental, which will certainly not be enough, because we are already working on many other answers, which we will go to give next year, starting with a further decree-restoration laws and the recovery fund. [[Applause]] The only exceptionality that really cannot be justified is that of a certain political part, sitting on my left, which too often does not dwell on the issues under discussion. If we have the motions for resolutions on the agenda for the future European Council, they are talking about immigration and school. If on the agenda there is the decree-law on regulatory simplifications, they talk about immigration and school. Even today they spoke, before, about the school. The school will finally reopen on January 7th, but they don't say it. [[Applause]] and thanks to Minister Azzolina, the school has guaranteed, with 2.4 million euros, a supply of furniture in schools, equal to 12 times the annual Italian production. [[Comments.]] Thank Minister Azzolina [[Applause]] , otherwise, thanks to your regions, the schools would be closed all year round! [[Happy protests. Recalls of the President]] Excuse me. Thanks to the mayors. I was wrong. I'm sorry. Faced with an exceptional condition, we have the responsibility of guaranteeing a way out for citizens and businesses: a vision of the country, a mosaic that is already gradually composing itself. And in order to do so the regulatory instrument can only be the decree-law. Let's remember them all again, also to make clear the amount of work that this Parliament is carrying out responsibly, supporting the governmental measures that constantly become support and help for Italians: care Italy, liquidity, simplifications, relaunch, August, refreshments one, two, three and four (as much as you want). [[Applause]] And with the ristori chapter the exceptionality ends up becoming also normative. [[Comments]] What do you call school right now?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u45	Senator Santillo, talk to the presidency and move on, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u46	SANTILLO (M5S). Let's all think about it: the first decree of restori and then the bis, ter and cc. Decrees adopted at the speed of light precisely to refresh a weak country. All for a package of decrees-restoration laws, from bis to cc, which ended up being incorporated... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u47	Senators, I understand that you do not share, but listen and, when it is your turn, you will speak in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u48	Please, Senator Santillo. SANTILLO (M5S). ...as amendments in the first decree-law. This has been an extraordinary exercise in elasticity and ability to respond to the needs of the population. These are measures designed to guarantee the many economic sectors marked by the so-called Ateco codes, to try to give concrete answers using in an increasingly targeted way the huge resources found during 2020, as evidenced by the 5.4 billion euros redirected precisely with the first decree-restoration laws and as shown by the other three decree-restoration laws, conceived and improved in their parliamentary passage precisely to extend the protections for the activities that fall in the red and orange zones and to grant a wide range of extensions to the fiscal deadlines. What they asked, we did. Intellectual honesty requires recognition of the quality and quantity of effort. Between the redirections of funds and the new deviation of the budget the ristori package puts on the plate as much as 18 billion euros, substantial resources that, among the many things, have allowed us to introduce ristori up to 400 percent of what previewed from the previous I throw again decree, to preview in favor of the exhibitors a bonus of 60 percent for the commercial rents, cedibile to the owner... I hear a background, Mr. President. President Senator Santillo, you continue your speech. It's not that senators can't... SANTILLO (M5S). That's a bad word, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know, Senator Santillo. Everyone will do their own intervention. You go ahead with yours, please. SANTILLO (M5S). There will be a State contribution for tenants who reduce the rent to meet the difficulties of tenants. It is also planned to cancel the second IMU instalment for the activities most affected by the restrictions, to increase the monthly covered by the emergency income, to introduce allowances for seasonal workers in tourism and entertainment and for sports workers, to allocate another 400 million for the benefit of the municipalities for the food emergency, to introduce a huge series of tax extensions concerning Irpef, Ires, VAT, withholding payments, balance and cancellation, to allocate new resources for the allowances of our Order Forces. The exceptional measures that we are planning today with the various decree-laws (including the decree-laws) to compensate for the damage due to restrictive measures are a bit like when you do a large public infrastructure and, for necessity, evaluate and try to achieve an environmental compensation in order to mitigate as much as possible the negative impact of the work. We're getting close to Christmas. We would all like to take a tour of our beautiful villages, maybe have a coffee with our loved ones, eat a pizza in the pizzeria or in the restaurant, take a bath in the pool, relax in a spa, see a movie at the cinema or a show at the theater. But you can't. We cannot and must not lower our guard. We protect our dearest affections and do so especially with the elderly, embracing them at a distance and observing physical distance. Maybe they'll spend this Christmas a little bit more alone, but I think it's worth it to guarantee that in the coming holidays we'll have more chance of being together, as it was before this damn Covid-19. Today is not the time for the teasing of oppositions and stage typhus for this or for that amendment, but it is the time to face the suffering of citizens and businesses. The 5 Star Movimento is immersed in this suffering and intends to fight to the end to get the country out of all of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u49	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the minority rapporteur, Senator Roberta Toffanin, for clearly indicating what we appreciated about this measure. It is with these that I want to start: I am referring to the issues of the Regional Fund, the Bill Fund and the Transport Fund. However, we have two general problems. The first concerns the issue of non-guarantees, which has also been mentioned today. We had a series of assurances for everything that concerned the world of the self-employed and the liberal professions, but this world in the decree under discussion did not have any response. Various and varied amendments have not been considered, on the basis of proposals from professionals, businesses and cashiers among others, and the choice has been made to continue ignoring the problem. Today the vice minister Misiani on a news agency has even launched the idea of social shock absorbers. It seems to me that someone has still spoken of the 1,000 euros, but that is not the point. The point is rather what has been mentioned - it seems to me by Senator Errani - when we were talking about the budgetary deviation, namely the fact that this majority should show us that it did not invisify the self-employed, VAT matches and professionals, but we are still waiting. [[Applause]] Nor has an amendment requiring the suspension of synthetic indices of fiscal reliability been accepted. However, the most serious and most shameful thing, in my opinion - I am very sorry that the Undersecretary of War and not the Minister of Justice is present in this Chamber, because I must admit that with the Subsecretaries there was a minimum of intercourse - is that of having included in this measure a series of very sensitive rules concerning justice, which have not been seen at all, nor analyzed. [[Applause]] I believe that this is serious because our suspicion - but I think it is more than a suspicion - is that in the Senate, as there is a legist, therefore a member of the opposition, to chair the Commission justice, we no longer allow certain measures to be passed on to the 2nd Commission, but we attach ourselves to measures such as the decree-laws that, you must explain to me, what does this have to do with justice. [[Applause]] I am not even told that this vulnus has been solved with the double competence of 1a and 2a. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Secondly, guidelines were also to be adopted by the Commission on justice. On the other hand, we have found a decree in which this part has been completely removed. Some improvements have gone through some members of the majority, I think in particular by some Senators of Italy Viva, with reference to the issues concerning the appeal and the mess that has been combined, thanks to this decree, with the review in Milan. On the rest we have total silence. We have seen a rule come out proposed by the National Forensic Council on the issue of issuing executive copies, but instead of taking that rule as it had been proposed by some members of the Commission with the specific reference, it has been written in such a way that today anyone can have ten executive copies of any decree. 7.40 p.m., followed by MODENA. You are therefore discussing the amendments which call for a suspension of the effectiveness of the protection of the debtor, and then you are making rules of this kind by failing to understand the practical consequence, namely that a debtor can be overwhelmed by the actions of ten creditors. [[Applause]] That's because you misspelled it. You will say, "What is this?" I'm talking about practical and concrete things. Nor have the proposals relating to the judges of peace been considered. You tell me about the crowds, but do you know that the peace judges have a competence of up to 20,000 euros in road accidents, in the cases of condominium, rentals and so on, and there the hearings are held in the presence? This stuff ended up in the trash, because obviously it cannot be of interest to a Budget Commission and or a Finance Commission. It is unacceptable that the decrees which go to the Budget Committee should include matters relating to justice. [[Applause]] , then make this mess. I am not going to talk about matters relating to the board or others, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would like your attention to one issue. One excerpt has been made of justice, putting in place four minimal things. But one thing you had it approved: the passage to take the examination as a state prosecutor: while before you could repeat the examination only twice, now a rule has been inserted in the decree-restoration laws for which you can retake the exam up to three times. [[Applause.]] For whom is this rule, which of course has not seen anyone in the general slaughter of the Budget and Finance Commissions? How is that possible? This is inconceivable. It's clearly a rule made for someone who hasn't passed the prosecutor's exam twice and has to give it the third time. But how do you put such a thing in this decree-law? And how can one say that amendments are not admissible because they tell the judge that he has to give the hearing hours. But have you ever entered a court of law? You know these judges don't give hours? [[Applause.]] You have to at least make sure they give the hours. Having said that, I remember once again that the Justice Commission had committed itself unanimously to addressing the issue of honorary magistrates: this is in all the newspapers and even those who do not know it bangs our heads. This question has been taken up and excluded. I believe that these are precedents that must no longer be allowed: we cannot see decrees-restoration laws that contain rules of this kind. Because then, when it happens to any of you to run into these bad rules, you can only take it out on yourself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, today we are preparing to approve the decree-laws and we are obliged to consider carefully the objective crisis situations that Italy is experiencing. I am of course referring to the difficulties caused by the pandemic by Covid-19, which affected sectors such as foreign tourism, international transport and retail consumption. But I am also referring to the limitations that this Government has imposed on certain categories such as bars, restaurants, hotels, museums and shows. Now we have to decide how to compensate, and not restore, who has been hit hard and is in serious difficulty, without creating A-series beneficiaries and B-series beneficiaries. [[Applause.]] The inability of this government to manage the crisis is perceived very clearly, I would say almost to the skin. The imposition of unclear regulations has shown that the improvisation technique has exceeded all credible limits and, above all, is proof that summer time has not been used to adopt strategies, plans and methodologies of organization. [[Applause]] Personally, living in a mountainous territory, the province of Belluno, I take it, talking and relating myself to the citizens, the feeling and the sorrow of how the Government succeeds every time to create situations of discrimination between zones and categories. Once again the non-knowledge of the territory is manifested. Italy, in its morphological diversity, determines heterogeneous modus vivendi. In mountain areas, for example, everyone should know that day-to-day management is more complex because the cost of living increases while services are sometimes reduced to bone or even lacking. However, we mountain people resist these difficulties in the belief that we have the right to live our territories, our traditions, rewarded by a genuine relationship as well as environmental aspects that nowadays are told in printed newspapers or television broadcasts with fairy tales but without any knowledge of the cause. The snow, the enchanting pictures of villages are beautiful realities to see but very difficult to live. Eighty per cent of the people living in these territories live thanks to the tourist season, especially the winter season and the fact that the Government, without any comparison or plausible or logical explanation, decided to close the lifts and ban the circulation between the municipalities on Christmas and New Year's Days, was for the citizens a complicated blow to cash. This kills a vital economy, humiliates the population and accentuates even more the gap between those who live daily and those who feel it sometimes with a certain disinterest. I therefore ask all of you, colleagues in the majority, and the Government to help me give plausible answers to the questions I raise every day. I press and emphasize a thousand times that the awareness that mountain people have towards the fight against the Covid is absolutely full. Marmolada's torches heart proves that. A heart that I invite everyone to see because it is a symbol of hope, life and health, for their land and for their work. I come back to the questions I was talking about earlier: do the citizens ask me why in September it was not risky to get the kids of the school on a bus and now it becomes very dangerous also the transport of a single person - one at a time - on the means of mobility of winter tourism? [[Applause]] And again: why was the summer season, let's say, managed in a certain way while the government didn't even want to look at the security plans presented by the regions for winter tourism? Not to mention the limitation of Christmas and New Year's travel between the municipalities. Italy is not Rome, Milan and Naples. Italy is also small towns, municipalities of 1,000 inhabitants bordering other municipalities that have 1,500, where often live members of families. But does this government know how the country that says to govern is morphologically made? You wouldn't think so. And then I think it's time to stop this discriminatory attitude, free arrogance and things that aren't explained why they're totally illogical. Days ago I heard from members of the government, with a certain sycumera, that closing the lifts is equivalent to the closing of a carousel in Luna Park. The mountain is not a Luna Park. Enough with these superficial comparisons that offend everyone, those who manage the mountain economy and even those who have a Luna Park. Isn't it a category, perhaps, even those who manage entertainment? It is a continuous talk in terms of discrimination and non-knowledge. Worry to understand that this spring, with the lack of appropriate instruments, the economic crisis will turn into a social crisis. You want the annihilation of Italy that works and citizens who commit themselves to building something for them and for the State, since they pay taxes. We mountaineers are not led to controversy, we keep quiet, we go on in difficulties in religious silence, we accept, we have a strong sense of respect for the rules, but that does not mean that we can take ourselves by the nose as stupid. I also want to emphasize a certain virtuosity that characterizes us, bringing for example the fact that during the summer my Region, the Veneto, has organized itself with the increase of the intensive therapies in preventive form, increase that then turned out providential. What we are asking is to be heard, because there is nothing worse than a deaf person who does not want to hear. As a philosopher from ancient Greece said, the reason we have two ears and one mouth is that we have to listen more and talk less, just the exact opposite of what this government does with its citizens and with their institutional representatives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u53	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the times we are facing are complicated and the decisions we will take will have an impact on the future of our country. Unfortunately, the danger is not yet behind us, but much has been done and much more we are about to complete. The commitment of all Italians is undeniable, the effort and sacrifice that the emergency required were burdensome for everyone, no one excluded. The choice of the name of the measure is not random, nomen omen. The Ristori decree, in fact, aims to refuse the groups most affected by the measures of containment of the pandemic, in order to raise also psychologically all those sectors that have most suffered the weight of the restrictive rules adopted with the DPCM of 24 October and 3 November. The aim of the ristori decree is to strengthen the protection network around the economic categories affected by closures and restrictions. The sectors most concerned, in addition to catering and catering, were those of sport, culture and tourism. The Revenue Agency has recently certified that more than 3 million credit transfers for automatic contributions to 2.4 million VAT consignments have been made so far, with a total of more than 9 billion euros. The only ones excluded were those who activated the VAT number after 25 October 2020, in order to avoid possible abuses. Those provided for in the ristori decree are substantial and targeted aid that, in addition to non-refundable contributions, guarantees, for example, a tax credit for 60% of commercial rents, cancels the second installment of the IMU, enlarges the weeks of cash integration, provides for extensions of payments of Irpef, Ires and IRAP accounts for VAT payments of VAT deductions of social security contributions of December for companies with revenues of up to 50 million euros that have suffered a loss of turnover of at least 33 percent in the first half of 2020 compared to the first half of 2019, as well as a delay to 10 December and 1 March of the payment term of the installment of the break-b and balance and canceled. The ristori decree provides for further aid for families in difficulty, expanding their emergency income and confirming the ban on dismissal until 31 January 2021. Overall, there are 18 billion made available, of these 9 billion were found thanks to the budgetary deviation also approved by the oppositions. This vote on budgetary deviation, which has been widely shared, highlights how important and desirable the cooperation of oppositions in this emergency situation is. Let me therefore turn to the opposition, inviting them to avoid bringing out the worst of the political confrontation. Let's avoid propaganda messages and misinformation, let's not waste time in attacks that feed the differences, but let's tighten around the needs of our nation. With mutual respect worthy of the institution we represent, we can choose the main path of collaboration. In the long history of mankind, Darwin said, those who have learned to collaborate and improvise more effectively have prevailed. Well, it is true that we have been forced to improvise because no one could predict the pandemic disaster, an unparalleled health crisis to be faced with a health care impoverished by years of structural cuts and deficiencies, with an economic fabric that still served the effects of the crisis of the past years. Nevertheless, the Government has proved ready to structure new responses and to put in place unthinkable measures before. We have finally abandoned the concept of austerity in Italy and Europe, but we must continue and improve our intervention even more. (Gaudiano followed). For these reasons, I conclude with an appeal to all the political forces in this House: let us not waste this opportunity and show the Italians that they are worthy of their commitment and the resilience they have shown; let us demonstrate by the facts that our work not only supports party logic, but is primarily aimed at the general interest and the good of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u55	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u56	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, my speech takes up what our President of Forza Italia, Silvio Berlusconi, said today, which once again shows that he cares about the good of Italy and Italians first of all, especially and above all. Despite a government that until now seems to prefer the external task forces to the ideal and institutional task force, which is Parliament, we still hope to be able to give serious and constructive opposition and - I stress - opposition, a substantial contribution of common sense and useful for the holding and the resumption of the country. The line of Forza Italia is very clear: working from the opposition benches in the exclusive interest of Italy and Italians [[Applause]] , still optimistically confident that, beyond the reasons for party deployment, a convergence can be found on the concrete needs of the country. Forza Italia, an essential component of the center-right coalition, is a force of opposition without if and without but; but to be in opposition for a political movement like ours does not mean to indulge the mistakes of those who are in the government to gain political advantage and will never mean to enjoy the worst, so much better to gain consensus. On the contrary, as we are demonstrating, as we are doing as a center-right coalition all together, it means being proactive and serving the country, playing our role with responsibility, doing what the Government has never done: listening, listening, listening [[Applause]] , bringing to the Commissions and to the House the voice of all citizens, at least with little satisfaction, for the time being, to show what we would do practically if we were to be able to decide. In such a difficult historical moment the role of the opposition must be firm and critical, but responsible and constructive. We have shown this, for example, by voting over the past few weeks on the budgetary deviation despite the fact that the Government still remains blind and deaf to our proposals, asking as a counterpart only to see accepted those proposals of common sense and vision, such as the refreshment of the fixed costs of companies and productive activities or the fiscal white year, promised precisely in these days by Minister Di Maio, in response to our demands. Amen, so be it, because our small and medium-sized enterprises, our productive realities, our service activities, such as events, weddings, traders, artisans, streetwalkers, the construction industry and private transporters, need certain support and hope in the future not to give up. Such hope can only give it a capable, competent and far-sighted government, which does not just put bits on the holes as they form. Sacrifices can be asked if you are able to give security, not without certainty. Then there are young people and, with them, support for school and work. We thank Minister Azzolina, dear Senator Santillo, for the misery of the 85 million destined for distance teaching, for the useless wheelchairs for which they threw away the new benches. [[Applause]] We also thank you for the disabled children left without the teachers of support and for the almost immediate closure of the schools immediately after the summer reopening for not having thought of simple things, such as the double turn of entry and the convention between public transport and private transport. He should at least have spoken to Minister De Micheli, avoiding her the ugly figure of proposing open school on Sundays or the denial that the virus could run on means of transport. We need intelligence, because we would never want to talk about a Covid generation. We also need substantial resources, political will to retrain education, higher technical and digitalization and, above all, targeted interventions for the true, courageous revolution of the school: the guarantee of freedom of educational choice. [[Applause]] In fact, the freedom of educational choice is the one that makes a country a great country and is realized only through the joint support to the state school and to the peer school. The peer school is the great forgotten of this crisis. Moreover, speaking of forgetfulness is not correct, as we are talking about a real design of a part of the majority - the Movimento 5 Stars - with the complicity of the remaining part - the left - which continues to sin by omission of intervention. There are great proclamations of will, but we know what the ways of hell are paved with. We are about to convert the ristori decree, within which we seem to have generously accepted three important amendments, signed by the whole centre-right: the granting of funds to the regions most affected by the Covid (which seems to us a very sensible amendment); the reduction of the charges of electricity bills for businesses; greater support for local transport. Vivadio, these are very important issues, but for which we have been granted - heard, heard - 380 million out of 18 billion euros allocated. These are small concessions made to oppositions, torn away with effort: too little to talk about real collaboration. This really is a great short-sightedness, as evidenced also by the extension of tax payments of ten days (in this regard, we have a good laugh). We will continue to make our proposals for the mountains and for a family Christmas for people. In fact, this alternation of openings and closures, closures and openings makes what happened yesterday happen, with people pouring out on the street suddenly because they are afraid that the next day it will close. [[Applause]] We will work together with the private initiative, the one that makes you so afraid and so much fear, at every level. Our goal is for the state and the company to work together. The state must learn from companies, which have proved to be very good, however, despite you, to hold on to this moment of crisis, from allies and not from antagonists. We therefore call for an alliance between State and enterprise, between State and workers, between State and family, between State and school, so that citizens can understand very clearly that the enemy is out there and is called Covid and crisis. The enemy can't be the state, the government. We wanted to do a lot of things. I am thinking, for example, of the mayors who have asked me to have funds to help the citizens not only through food aid (a hot dish, all in all, is found because Italy is the world of volunteering), but also to allow the payment of bills, because today not everyone can pay them. This is a very serious problem. We ask for strategy and not tactics; we ask for certainty and not confusion, because people can no longer get up in the morning not knowing today what they will have to do tomorrow and have clear deadlines and deadlines. Leave us free, leave the businesses free. Meanwhile, we prepare ourselves once again for a bump of confidence; never try to improve anything. For Christmas I will write a little wish in the letter to Santa Claus, in order to really refresh Italy: that the Epiphany, together with the Covid, this Government will take away. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u57	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u58	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately small openings are not enough only in this House and a few concessions made to us by the opposition, among other things, torn away not without effort - for this reason I thank our rapporteur, Mrs Ferrero, who is also a Group leader in the Budget Committee - in order to finally be able to talk about the collaboration between the majority and the opposition. The crisis we are experiencing is overcome by concrete, tangible acts that really leave no one behind. In the hands of this Government the decree-laws are oxymorons, the certification of the inability of your policy to give answers to the Italians and, that is, the opposite of what you should do. Shakespeare would say that the plague of times is when mad people lead the blind. So let us always remember that we are in a Parliament that needs serious confrontation. We are talking about the irresponsible behavior of citizens, but responsible must be first and foremost those who enact the measures, that is, you who govern this country. You should ask yourself a little more about the most serious economic death, that of trade, that of tourism, that of catering. A striking example is our sub-amendment to the third ristori decree-law, which concerns non-scheduled public transport companies or non-subsidised lines excluded from the benefits, which are the victims of a real blockage of activities. It is no less than 6 000 companies, 25 000 jobs, 2.5 billion turnover, Mr State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. This majority rejected our first-signed amendment by my colleague Gianmarco Centinario, leaving only 10 million euros for a hundred bus discovered, 80% of which is owned by a single company. We left out those who do the same service with bus discovered, just because it has a different tax indication. This for us is not a measure of refreshment, but a marchetta! Shame on you! [[Applause]] In Italy tens of thousands of companies in the agro-food sector are suffering the repercussions of the economic crisis caused by an epidemic that you are absolutely not able to fight in any way. Yet - as we have already said - agri-food is worth 210 billion euros, but let us remember that in 2020 consumption outside the home fell by 48 percent, with a total loss on agri-food and food spending of more than 41 billion euros. These are not data that we certify: dangerous, subversive, sovereignistic and bad; they are important data certified last week by the Institute of Services for the Agricultural Food Market (Ismea). In the end, despite having had an increase in the large distribution, there remain 30 billion consumption of dry loss, in which fishing, florovivaism and wine are the most affected sectors. In addition, let's remember that Brexit will bring our agricultural exports to their knees for 3.5 billion and will mainly concern fresh and transformed wine and fruit and vegetables; a huge damage that should be compensated by the introduction of forms of refreshment of the damages suffered by the companies. We have tabled a number of important amendments. The first, and most important, proposed to restore Article 7 of the first decree-ristori law, under the sub-amendment of the Government, which allocated 100 million euros for the food supply chains that are fundamental, very important: I am thinking of zootechnics, the current problem of pig farming, milk, beekeeping, flowering, wine. The text provided for a strong and true support mechanism for Italian agri-food. We talk about Made in Italy and then we hide behind a finger and take away the resources to give it, perhaps, to forced welfare that does not generate employment. [[Applause]] We asked - for our farmers, for our farmers - 100 million euros for the agricultural bill, 30,000 euros for each farm: at ten years they would return those resources at zero rate. You have not been able to accept the very important amendment with which we would have given refreshment to 3,500 small farms. We have asked to put back the simplified vouchers in tourism, in catering, in agriculture: here again nothing. We asked you for simplification on the receipt of European funds, the CAP, for companies. Today to have an anti-mafia certificate from prefectures working in smart working takes months, unfortunately; and, if that is missing, it does not arrive resources, and it does liquidity. We asked for 600 euros of bonuses for every small farmer and farmer in the red areas, who could not sell their products out of common. [[Applause]] That hasn't passed either. Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's make fun of farmers! Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. Dear colleagues, we are approaching Holy Christmas. Italians would like to find everything under the tree except government parcels: the exponential increase in public debt... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u59	You must conclude nicely. I've already given you two more minutes. Senator Bergesio, use your time to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u60	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). I said that Italians do not want to find the government package under the tree: the exponential increase in public debt, the increase in unemployment, precariousness, closed schools for months, lonely elderly people, abandoned local authorities. Give a nice gift - tell the Ministers of this Government - to all Italians: go home and look for a job worthy of your abilities, that we ask you to take away at the service of the country, because otherwise we will never get up again. First the Italians, always. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u61	Senator Anastasi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with a new decree-law - the fourth in just over a month - our government's action in support of Italian workers, professionals, businesses and families continues and extends further. The entire restorative package is presented today to the attention of this House with important correctives: a wide range of tax extensions and refreshing measures, among which worthy of mention are the refunds for property owners who will grant discounts on rents; an experimental rule - as President Pesco has called it - to meet the needs of those who are renting and perhaps are facing a thousand difficulties; a measure that allows a reduction of the fee, limiting the burden for the owner. Also signed by President Pesco is the amendment designed to support families and businesses in debt, which anticipates some measures on bankruptcy and corporate crises. Mr Gasparrini's initiative on the extension of the so-called Gasparrini Fund should also be mentioned. Equally significant is the amendment by Senator Romano, which states that companies and professionals who have received contributions, allowances and bonuses from the State against the Covid-19 crisis will not be taxed. We have even approved a non-majority amendment on fair compensation for professional advice and services on the 110% superbonus - at last the opposition also realizes our excellent measure - and one on the fund dedicated to paying bills for businesses and professionals, as the Government had already legislated in the liquidity decree-law, demonstrating with the facts that the common sense proposals we find welcome [[Applause]] , while the provocations and the TV chatter will send back to the sender in a closed envelope. We all know the dramatic moment we're experiencing. To deal with the crisis, in the four decrees-restoration laws we invested a total of more than 19 billion euros to strengthen and extend the protection network around our economic-productive fabric. And it is in this spirit that we will continue to put forward ideas and proposals. One last point is on the amendment that is not there. We had put the extension of the superbonus 110% in this decree to the attention of the Government and Parliament. Since everyone says in words that they want the extension, but there is still no response to it, I call on the majority of the Government to find the courage to do the right thing. [[Applause]] It's a great time. History will judge us for what we have done and not for good intentions and fine words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u63	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u64	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the political path of these decree-laws that we come to discuss has been complex, but the country and Parliament have accepted their need and importance. I therefore believe that achieving their conversion into law is a significant starting point and starting point for all of us. I would like to say then that we must take advantage of this debate, take it as the opportunity we have sought to connect with our communities, being part of the harmonious relationship between the polis and the individuals that make it up. The difficulty of this composition is the obligation we assumed when we agreed to represent all the people as individual senators and as a Parliament. The pandemic struck and crippled the cosmos of civilization, in particular the Western one, causing the sense of our human inadequacy, subverting many points of reference that we gave for acquired. The aseptic myth of infinite and invincible scientific progress has crumbled into our hands; the veil of the illusion of being clones of the dangerous future model of Übermensch has fallen. At one stroke, health, the environment, the economy, social protection and international relations have appeared to be an indissoluble whole, and we must take charge of this. The pandemic also made us understand without a shadow of a doubt how real this new form of isonomy is, the equality in the face of the risk that all citizens indistinguishably run the risk of being overwhelmed by the virus. We have also been confronted with fearful, albeit hypothetical, classifications of age-related hierarchies or health-related situations related to access to care. Now, the appeal of the President of the Republic to regain unity in order to build the appropriate response that the country asks us has been taken and collected to give us the opportunity to maintain a dignity that the Constitution guarantees as an indispensable foundation. They have been and will still be long and difficult months and these restaurants represent an impulse to renew the common faith on the value that the constituent Fathers have engraved on the foundations: Italy is a Republic founded on work and now more than ever the work and dignity of the workers we must protect and support. Find a common language during the work of the Joint Commissions; reduce the amount of the thousands of amendments on which majority and opposition have worked; find a square on what the Government can do for our national community have been difficult and challenging for everyone. Refreshing is, therefore, a political passage of high democratic value, but above all a strong and unequivocal signal that we want to start from the citizens, from the particular needs of those who have been affected in various ways. Those who wanted to speculate on the possibilities of putting the government in trouble have made a game deprejudiced in the first place towards the citizens. On the contrary, we must never, as now, realize that the resources of the decrees made available with the Government's restors and with the political will of the majority represent an extraordinary commitment for the entire national community. They are essential resources to fill the needs on the one hand, but above all to lay the foundations for a new and more complex design that will be defined in the coming months with the Next Generation EU, and that will necessarily involve all the institutions, Parliament, as well as the regions and local authorities or specific realities, and allow us to refuse a perspective of the future that the pandemic has dramatically interrupted. There have been many chapters, many issues addressed during hearings and discussion. Among the various and innumerable measures taken, I would like to pay particular attention to two complexities, which are an integral part of Italian reality and need to be supported. We have always asserted how important it is at this time not to forget the weakest: among these the most exposed are people with disabilities or disabling diseases and their families, who must not in any way be left alone. The Covid, in fact, has reduced the possibility of help and intervention to families. We must therefore increase the resources and the number of social and welfare residences; we must increase the commitment to individual projects and breathing modules, because disability is a condition of life, and not a time state. The disease of the operators has helped to reduce the services of the residences, even those protected for the elderly or chronic patients. And we have not forgotten the elderly parents of the users of social welfare residences, who are at high risk of infection and strongly concerned about the future of their children, as well as for themselves. The second issue concerns culture, which we have tried to give the utmost attention to. There are categories of workers who are experiencing this pandemic crisis in a dramatic way. There was someone who asserted how with culture you do not eat, but ours is a country that lives of culture and is recognized in the world also for culture. The workers of the show, including actors, musicians and so-called intermittent workers, but also scholars and researchers in the humanistic field, translators, are decisive categories and very high training that are not considered by many as a productive part of the country. On the contrary, as Claudio Magris writes in his heartfelt appeal on the "Corriere della Sera", they are passionate and highly qualified professionals who often live on occasional and precarious contracts with theatres, foundations, institutions, universities and publishing houses. We are committed to rediscovering the centrality of these categories in order to avoid the serious decline of excellence that identifies us and qualifies us towards Europe and the whole world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u65	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u66	Mr President, it is a pleasure that someone in this House has begun to talk about disability, although this issue should be reminded of who is in the government, since there has not been much emphasis on this issue in the Ristoratory Decree-Laws. [[Applause]] But it's good to talk about it. Just remember it at the right time. In the few minutes I have allowed myself I would like to make a methodological note first. Today we are here to face the conversion of a series of decree-laws: the restors, the restori- bis, the restori-ter and the restori-c, almost like the series of the films Rambo, for which there is the one, the two, the three and the four. I have to be honest: if we want to speak to Italians with clear words, we certainly cannot do so if we do not make clear rules. I challenge you to find some citizen who has understood something about this government's way of making laws in the last few weeks. I challenge you, because to me people ask what are the norms contained within this decree-law: no one understood anything. Well, we'll do better next time. On this point, as part of the Justice Commission, I can only subscribe to the statements already made by Senator Modena in the area of justice. You have incorporated into a decree-law of an economic nature of the rules on absolutely insane justice, because you cannot think of regulating justice under the aegis of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. On the contrary, in thanking the Undersecretary Guerra, who is competent in this matter, I also wish her best wishes for her new colleague, "the obvious" Undersecretary Bonafede, seen and considered that by now the Ministry of Justice has become a branch and Minister Bonafede is employed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. [[Applause]] We also take note of this, but we can only stress once again in this House that justice cannot be managed in this way, because otherwise we will be faced with a judicial disaster. I don't know about you, colleagues, but I'm a lawyer and, when I'm not in Rome, I go to courtrooms, obviously respecting all the limits. You could, however, have started the great digitalization and computerization, even before, when you rejected, in the various measures, amendments such as the one I signed - for example - with which it affected the ability of chancellors to work remotely, thus insisting on the telematic process. Today you work on digitalization, but I inform you that in the courts computers are beginning to arrive now and maybe they are computers not even up to date and not even connected with the fantastic portals that you foresee within the norms and that then, in reality, they do not exist. Therefore, the priorities of this measure in the area of justice - as I have already said - are the digitisation and remoteisation of hearings, which do not actually work, and then there is the issue of prisons. Mr Undersecretary, go and ask the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, since you do not have the grace to come to this House, if you really know what the situation is within the courts and prisons. [[Applause]] Judging by the rules contained in this measure, I do not think that it really knows. You're just putting patches on patches on other patches. I therefore ask the majority to stop ruling with false common sense, because - quoting Guareschi - you are ruling not with common sense, but simply with common sense, which is much worse. So you risk making some resounding damage. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Our amendments: which have been tabled to try to give concrete answers, have simply been used to give the tip, but we do not accept it, because it is the citizens who demand answers. We are not here to bring home the single amendment: we do not care, but we care to bring home results, for people. What I can do is certainly to point out that it is not true that you have all remembered, because within this measure I do not see - for example - rules concerning my fellow lawyers. Let me tell you something: not all lawyers bill millions of euros, but many lawyers do "province lawyers," as I like to call them. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm about to finish, Mr. President. There are also sportsmen: someone in this House said that we remembered sports workers, but the amount you gave them, in fact, is very similar to that for electric scooters. Perhaps it would have taken less electric scooters and a little more refreshment to people who, at this moment, working within the world of sport, are out of work and without salary: perhaps you should have remembered it. I conclude by inviting the Government and the majority: you should give people confidence and instead you are exasperating them. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a few words on social media, which I hope will allow me to say: Do the holiday bonus and then you'll fuck people on vacation, do the Christmas cashback and then you'll fuck if people go shopping. [[Applause]] : If this is the way to make politics of the majority, it is obviously time to go home. Merry Christmas! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u67	I also call on the opposition to use another language in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u68	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, of course we would not have liked to, but the second wave of contagion has unfortunately occurred, in some cases favored by the reckless casualness with which some public premises have been opened this summer, as happened in Sardinia, where offshore companies have been favored, letting their discotheques crowd, to the detriment of the health of all. The warning was given to us by several European countries, where already in September there were new infections to tens of thousands a day. In Italy the surge became apparent in October, so that on October 7 it became necessary to extend the terms of the state of emergency until January 31, 2021. From that moment on, as the number of contagions increased, it was a follow-up of DPCM and decree-laws to counter the spread of the virus, confirming the pressure on hospitals and inevitably adopting increasingly restrictive measures, up to the subdivision by areas of greater or lesser regional contagion. The decree-ristori law of 28 October has started a series of other decree-laws, seen the continuation of the contagions, to allocate resources to lost funds and tax and economic facilities for the activities affected by the necessary restrictions. Among the main measures we note the non-refundable contribution for VAT consignments (expanding the areas of intervention compared to the beneficiaries identified by the IPR); the extension of the Integration Fund (another six weeks to be used between 16 November and 31 January); the tax credit for commercial rents and the cancellation of the second IMU instalment; the allowance for seasonal workers in tourism, sports and entertainment; the new tranche of emergency income. In short, with the reform decrees issued so far, we have allocated some EUR 19 billion for the activities affected, while other resources are being allocated in the forthcoming budget law. Agriculture has not been neglected in recent months. A budget of EUR 4 billion has been allocated to the sector, of which EUR 1 billion is earmarked for the relief of aid for farms in the agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sectors for November and December. There are also resources for support to the wine sector; the refinancing of the national solidarity fund to continue to support companies affected by the Asian bug; economic support to tourist and catering activities located in protected areas; tax credit for capital increases; guarantees for the liquidity of agricultural and fisheries enterprises; grants and zero-rate loans to farms. And more: the fund for food emergencies; the fight against waste; the catering fund to support Made in Italy; support for female entrepreneurship with the "Women in the field" project; support for youth employment in agriculture. Other resources will be allocated to these and other measures in the budget law. For the primary sector, we are at a crucial point. Great is its role in terms of exports, new CAP, green new deal, with farm to fork strategies and the increase of organic; an area in which we can boast primates and attention to problems to a greater and better extent than other countries. With the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we must build on the competitiveness of the food system, with the modernisation of production systems geared towards sustainability; the prevention of hydrogeological failure and the strengthening of the irrigation agrosystem; sustainable forest management and the recovery of abandoned rural areas. These are the challenges that we are preparing to face and we are doing so with all the care that it needs. But work is better with the sharing of responsibility and commitment on the part of all. The speed and effectiveness with which resources have been found to compensate at least in part for the shortfalls in economic activity have once again shown the attention that this Government, together with Parliament, is pouring into a pandemic that is changing paradigms and visions in every situation at planetary level. In this unfortunate period, which has been going on for about a year, on all occasions we have never failed to emphasize that political-institutional collaboration, as well as of all private activities and citizens, was absolutely necessary to reach the goal of the definitive exit from the emergency caused by the pandemic. We do not tire of repeating this concept, because all manifestations of disinterest or void controversy will only pose further obstacles to the achievement of the result. Furthermore, I would like to stress that it is no longer possible to lower the guard on prevention. It is essential to increase efforts to counter any new developments in viruses of various origins through the strengthening of scientific research. But it is essential to improve the health structures present on the Italian territory, which have clearly shown large limits derived from the cuts and bad management of recent years. The decree-laws under consideration must be the springboard for a new vision of economy, development and work, the one that so far has not been there, and the disastrous results are before everyone's eyes. This government is giving a turning point to the system that has worn out our beautiful Italy, helping everyone to get back up to be born again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u71	Mr President, the decree-laws, indeed this plurality of decree-laws actually responds to those demands of war economy and subsidies, which are given to some while others have been completely forgotten: this has been said by my colleagues before and it is useless for me to repeat it. My speech will be limited to a very specific area - as Senator Modena said earlier - which is part of the decree-laws in question, with as many as ten - indeed more - articles, but which has been completely ignored in the Commission by virtue of a passage almost as a fugitive of the situation, that is, the whole issue of justice. In a moment of emergency and in a state of exception, what we are experiencing, following the pandemic and that someone has defined a real war situation, the issue of justice brings with it paradigms, especially with regard to the criminal aspects and the criminal process, which are not negligible. The paradigm is as follows: dematerialization, remoteisation and securitisation of the process. This means that if with the decree-law cures Italy and with its article 83 we have introduced principles due to the need and at the moment, that is the fact that the hearings can be carried out remotely as long as in them you do not have to hear and examine witnesses or hear the parts (therefore with precise limits), inopportunely with the decree-law restori bis bursts on the scene another principle. On the basis of it even the second-degree criminal trial, taken away from the hypothesis of the baptismal renewal, becomes a paper process: the prosecutor makes the appeal, the defense has never been at first instance and presents written conclusions - if they arrive, because it is not known how - to the judgments gathered in the chamber of council; indeed, they are not assembled simultaneously, but each from his own office, each from his own residence and through a symbolic meeting. This means dematerializing, because this has meant dealing with an emergency. This is certainly understandable, but we would have understood this to the extent that all this serves to facilitate the activities of legal practitioners. We would have understood all this to the extent that there are no inconsistent rules such as the 415- bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so at the end of the investigation the lawyer defender of the party can present memories only through the telematic criminal portal, which we know exists and function as a leopard spot in our country. All this poses an objective difficulty, so much so that our amendments were very clear and said to remove the word "exclusively" to allow the possibility to resort much more simply to a common and trivial JEP, certainly certified by the systems of the Ministry. What's the difference? The judicial epistemology changes, that is, the very conception of the process. And it changes dangerously because, if at a trial that takes place in equality, in the contradictory form of the formation of proof between two equal parts, we take away one of them, which is normally minority in the exercise of powers, that is, the part of the defence, the proscenium, the possibility of exercising itself and exercising its functions in front of a third judge, we have killed the criminal trial. This is obvious and will reflect. If that is the address you want to give to the post-Covid era - and we all hope that the emergency will actually end, according to this decree, on 31 January 2021 - I wonder what and how many rules will be in place then, because we do not already have the exact content of what rules will be applicable when the pandemic is exceeded. As far as the civil process is concerned, this majority has deposited the delegation law on the reform of the civil process. The subject matter was easier, because the telematic civil process has existed for some time. The civil process in Italy lasts three thousand days, more than double what happens on average in European countries. And this produces - according to statistics recognized by all - a damage of about three billion for the enterprises and a lack of gain, in terms of investment, of approximately 11 billion in our country. Do we want to understand that, if ideas walk on the legs of men, so also justice can only walk on the legs of men? We need IT in the justice system. We need assistants, executives, administrative staff that isn't there. [[Applause]] The desperate cry from anyone is that you don't know who to turn to. I say this very clearly, also because I have recently heard a few speeches in the Commission by the various Subsecretaries who have answered our questions politely. Then there is a fundamental question, in my view constitutional, which has not been explored in an appropriate way. We know that Article 111 of the Constitution limits the implementation of the right process to the law, i.e. it contains an explicit reserve of law. In fact, at the moment when, with the decree cures Italy and with the various successive decrees, including the current decrees restori e ristori- bis, we establish that the conduct of the criminal process is regulated by the deposit of the acts, without prejudice to the procedural guarantees, through a regulation of the head of the Ministry - not even the Minister but an official - that determines how such acts are deposited and the process takes place, a full and clear procedural guarantee is violated, that precisely contained in Article 111 of the Constitution. [[Recalls of the President]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to add a final passage on the situation of prisons. I know that these days there is a civil, but effective, protest by the Radicals and Rita Bernardini who are denouncing the situation of prisons in Italy. I would like the Minister, for once, to give the numbers. Unfortunately we know that it is his specialty to give the numbers, because we have seen what he managed to do with the prescription. [[Applause]] We saw what he was able to do with the so-called scrubber. But we would like you to really give the numbers of the prison situation in Italy. There's overcrowding of over 4,000 inmates. What is the situation with prisons today? There are about 1,000 prisoners suffering from Covid, over 500 prison police officers got sick and the prisons are exploding. We do not guarantee what the Torreggiani judgment had established. Overcrowding is probably even greater if it is true that there are about 5,000 unworkable places that are considered by the Ministry among the places that can be used for detention. I don't know what it will be: I guess it's very difficult to get back together and think about the system of penalties in Italy after what happened, also because probably our ability to react compared to what is happening rests on fairly fragile bases, indeed, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u72	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u73	Mr President, for six months now we have been working on a draft law, No. 1861, which has an objective, to remedy an injustice towards those who are not just supposed to be called heroes, but must be protected in practice. [[Applause]] , i.e. doctors, nurses, in general health and social-health workers who have died or who have suffered irreversible injuries or infirmities due to Covid infection. Despite multi-billion-dollar funding, there has been no ECU 100 million in support of this type of need and all this in a scenario that is absolutely contrary to the fundamentals of dignity and ethics. Well, in this context it is quite clear that all too often reference has been made to words that have found their foundation and attention in a process of sharing such that we would all like to call them heroes, but no sense has been given to the words that have been used, in a more or less bipartisan way. There is, however, an underlying for some of them, in my view even more serious, place that they had previously concluded an accident insurance policy, but whose coverage the insurance companies deny, asserting who knows as a codicil signed between vexatory clauses, on the assumption that the infection from Covid would not fall within the scope of the concept of accident, but in that of illness, distinguishing between violent cause and virulent cause. We have joined the process of legislative integration with the basic text No 1894 in the first Commission in preparation, in anticipation of the celebration of the Day in memory of the victims of the epidemic, next March 18. However, in view of the desirability of converting the reform decrees, we felt that we should propose three amendments on the subject, which would have anticipated the economic refreshment measures that could not be postponed from our point of view, but which were inexplicably rejected, even denying the approval in terms of an agenda that was the assumption of what should be brought about by the norm. Although the 12th Commission has unanimously recommended action, the Government has once again shown that it does not listen to the legislative power, going to disregard even on matters so sensitive as to make unacceptable the democratization that you are trying to get used to in the country, but that it is not sleepy as you think, and it will ask you to account. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u74	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u75	Mr President, the ristori decree, for the truth, more than refreshments, gives alms to certain sectors affected by the second wave, which this government has only been able to announce, but not manage. The point should be clarified. Mr President, families would have needed an extra saturometer and a few less scooters. The measure in our examination must not confuse us in a rough way with the crisis that has occurred in some sectors or hide what the real causal link is: that, if we talk about it today and are forced to invest the resources of the fourth budgetary deviation, it is because of a government that has not been able to prevent the second wave from coming down violently on the whole country. In the wake of this same logic, which we can say more than approximate, the decree-law moves, continuing to follow an emerging profile, without addressing in merit the difficulties of those who have remained behind because of the economic crisis. In fact, the activities expected from the State not grants, but courageous interventions, as renunciation of their claims. On the other hand, taxes have been suspended or deferred, with the direct consequence that, if there are no massive and important maneuvers in support of the economy, the activities that have struggled have remained in 2021 and 2022 will be strangled by the deadlines of today and also tomorrow. With our leader Giorgia Meloni we held a press conference in which we presented the Ristori decree, proposing serious and concrete proposals to bring down the economic crisis, reaffirming above all that the logic is not that of the subsidy, to which unfortunately some parties of the majority (and I refer to the Movimento 5 Stars) are fond, but that of following the reduction of the fixed costs. Today these are the greatest obstacles for many entrepreneurs and even professionals, both big and small, to get out of this crisis that gripes everyone. On the point you should have focused your attention, rather than continuing in the logic of rain interventions. Likewise, you should have corrected the errors about the timing that had already proved inadequate in the previous measures. The integration funds arrived extremely late and most entrepreneurs had to anticipate it out of their own pocket or were forced to pay the costs of the liquidations of those who preferred to look for a job opportunity elsewhere. This is not only because the various ristori decrees, as in the case, precisely, of the receptive sector, have their basis in erroneous or at least underestimated foundations, that is, the difference between the turnover of April 2019 and that of April 2020: it is possible that behind this choice there is an unscathed logic, linked to the fact that April is one of the less indicative months and even with less turnover. The government's will, therefore, is clearly to pay less. Everyone knows that in April the mountain resorts are located in the interval between the winter and the summer season, while the seasonal facilities have recently opened. In this way, the risors obtained (when arrived) are barely enough to cover a small fixed part of the taxes. And for a living? Rather it would have been appropriate, wishing to reason with a view to refreshment, to evaluate the non-refundable contributions on the differences in turnover between the period between April and December 2019 and the corresponding range of 2020, perhaps using the unspent money of the holiday bonus, which objectively was a means of failure. In any case, the receptive one is only one of the many areas that complain of the inadequacy of this provision, as there are many others that denounce the complete abandonment by the Government. For example, what has been done for the tourism sector? Today you do not foresee any appropriate refreshment or support measures. In addition, you have completely forgotten the travel agencies, a category completely put in a corner with an Ateco code almost always forgotten in the various DPCMs and that today has not received the grant for the period between February and July 31, with funds that had already been allocated. How do you think these activities can go on, if nothing has been done in ten months and nothing has yet been received? The travel agencies are over 10,000 throughout Italy and occupy thousands of people, with a very impacting result on our GDP. It must also be borne in mind that fear, which continues to be the master, will hardly allow us to return immediately to travel as before. The same question could be asked for the event sector, since more than 90 percent of cultural and religious events have been deleted. In 2020 weddings, communions, concerts, fashion shows and shows were completely cancelled. It is a whole world that has been stationary for almost a year and hundreds of thousands of professionals engaged in this activity or in their induced that have perceived little or almost nothing. We do not talk about the subjects involved in catering, such as bars and restaurants. Here the government has done even worse, forcing them to invest resources in sanitation and to reduce seats, sacrificing even employees (many have been fired) and imposing the purchase of additional dehors. Then what did you do? You have in fact closed them or dramatically reduced them in their offer of services, imposing them also a closing at 18, without considering that they were organized, managing to guarantee the service in safe conditions. You have made no distinction: for you all have become places of assembly. Rather, would it not have been better, only for bars, to allow them to continue their activity in respect of social distance, together with hygiene rules, which have become the heritage of our daily behavior? Inexplicable, then, that some activities related to the craft sector have been forgotten, as has happened for services to people. What about streetwalkers, whom you banned from working on public holidays and preaching days, even in December, thus subtracting them about 50 percent of the annual income? It would have been better to leave it to the local authorities to regulate and regulate this sector, also given the knowledge of the local reality. I quote the example of the city where I live, where there has been the closure of the covered market. It was an illogical and absurd choice. It is a market that I know very well and I assure you that there is no possibility of assembly; nevertheless, you have closed it, with the result that slowly the activities that work within it will die. It is therefore a slow agony. Another issue on which the decree-law should have provided for intervention is that of funding, even guaranteed, for accommodation companies. Today these assets are considered at risk, so no funding is provided, not even those guaranteed 90% by the State; for this reason, it would be necessary to provide for an extension to at least twenty years of loans guaranteed 100% by the State and the increase even to amounts well above today's 30 000 euros, without companies being subject to a credit review. In addition, it would be appropriate to extend the super ecobonus to 110% also to accommodation facilities, which would allow them to be refurbished and better placed on the market. In the measure under consideration, Brothers of Italy confirmed the seriousness and concreteness that have been the determining element of our growth of consensus among voters. In fact, an amendment has been approved to strengthen local public transport; it is certainly important, but from now on Regions and Municipalities will also be able to conclude agreements with private bus companies, holders of licenses for taxi and driver rentals (NCC). For a long time Brothers of Italy has repeated that the solution is not to ban and close, but rather to adapt our offer of services to the new situation. It is well known that transport is the real flaw of the system, to which the Government and the majority have not been able to oppose valid solutions. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the limit on capacity is certainly a meaningless number, because there is no control; rather, we need to strengthen the provision of service, as we say from the beginning of the pandemic, in order to reduce the influx. More listening and less arrogance, more sharing and less direct streaming would be appropriate. This is what Italians need at this difficult time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u76	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u79	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, I want the freedom you have taken from me. These are the words of Mr. Carlo Gilardi, 90-year-old of Airuno, a small town in the province of Lecco, whose history is told to us in these days by the famous television show "Le hyene". It is the story of an elder, a member of a very wealthy family, a man decidedly of culture and decidedly generous. His generosity has made him famous in his small municipality, not only for the gestures of altruism towards individuals and entire families, but also because the municipality in which he lives has benefited from his actions: he had in donation a defibrillator; Mr. Carlo has invested money for the realization of a parking lot of the kindergarten and has donated several lands to the Municipality of Airuno. However, a day of about three years ago, his generosity led him to see himself appointed as a support administrator. Since then, his life has changed and he has experienced a reduction in his freedom. This support administration, always badly endured by Mr. Carlo, culminated in a replacement, following a statement by Mr. Carlo, in which very serious incidents were reported, such as the issue of the CEO's scrutiny to friends, without a just cause. The last administrator did not, however, represent an improvement for Mr. Carlo, because on 27 October the 90-year-old was sent, against his will, to a health care residence (RSA). Mr. Carlo's life might look like St. Francis. Let's imagine what story we could tell today and what the life of St. Francis would have been at the time of the administration of support. As I come to the conclusion, I would like to say one thing from this point of view: the story has very dark sides. That is why I have decided to put a question to the Minister of Justice, if only to protect the protagonists on the other side, who in this matter have been decisive for the life of Mr Carlo, who is now locked up in an RSA and cannot communicate with relatives and friends. I'd like to say something to Mr. Carlo, I don't know if he can hear me: see, Mr. Carlo, I say, "Come on!" because Italy is a great country and is on its side. [[Applause]] You're a decent person: don't feel alone, because you're not. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u82	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called ristori decree-law in the text before this House provides, with regard to motorway infrastructure, including the Brenner-Modena A22, for the regions and local authorities concerned to be able to use in-house companies as dealers. These companies have the possibility to redeem - after a resolution of the shareholders' meeting and also by way of derogation from the statutes - the ownership shares of different entities of public administrations. Since these in-house companies, once fully public, will automatically obtain the renewal of motorway concessions, I believe it is necessary to provide that they exclusively deal with the management and maintenance of existing motorway infrastructure and that they cannot conclude project financing agreements, or participate in joint companies or temporary business associations, for the construction of new infrastructure. This is to prevent what comes out the door from coming through the window. I refer in particular to the company Autostrada del Brennero SpA, which will become completely public, but which currently participates with 51 percent in the company ARC (Regional motorway Cispadana), together with the company Pizzarotti & C. SpA, which owns 19.30 percent, and Coopsette, cooperative company of Castelnuovo di Sotto, in the province of Reggio Emilia, which also owns 19.30 percent. The latter, with 37 subsidiaries and 42 subsidiaries, failed. It entered into compulsory liquidation on 30 October 2015, because it was burdened with a liability of approximately 790 million euros, and has 3,700 creditors, including 1,160 employees or former members. Of the 790 million, 10 million euros of debts are borne by the unsuspecting pensioners, who had deposited part of their liquidation in the cooperative: a black hole from which we must get out. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brennero S.p.A. motorway must be clearly excluded from the Cispadana Regional Highway. As MoVimento 5 Stars we have always been opposed to the realization of the Cispadana Motorway, which no citizen wants, because it is only a casting of super exotic bitumen, which would also involve the payment of a toll. Citizenship wants efficiency on the streets and the ordinary roadway of the territory and not these mega monsters, which serve only to enrich someone's pockets and socialize the huge losses, at the expense of all of us citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u85	CORTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this Chamber as a senator of the Modena and Montagna College to bring you the cry of sorrow of the hard-working Modena community. On the morning of Sunday, December 6, the bank of the river Panaro near Gaggio broke. This circumstance forced 360 people to be evacuated not only from Castelfranco Emilia, but also from nearby Nonantola. To date, 61 people are still displaced and 300 more have returned to shovel the mud in their homes to take care of them, but it will take between three and six months before these homes return to be fully accessible. As it happens, the area of rupture of the banks of the river Panaro is close to what was the object of analogous, tragic event on January 19, 2014. Haven't we really learned anything from all this? Only in the municipality of Nonantola over 1,800 buildings are involved and in Gaggio many farms are devastated. The damage has not yet been estimated, as only in the last few days is the count being started. Needless to say, it is damage for tens and tens of millions, which is added to those of only six years ago. How to forget the municipality of Campogalliano, this time victim of the river Secchia? Even rural areas that had never been flooded before have been flooded here. Unlike other municipalities, in Campogalliano there is not even a real embankment of the Secchia. Here, too, some 50 people have been evacuated and five economic activities go underwater several times a year and every year. From the flood of the 2017 Secchia there were at least seven, but the weather forecasts, already a few days before, had predicted abundant rains, which, associated with the melting of the snows, should have triggered punctual controls, which did not happen. The Emilia-Romagna Region has called for the state of natural disaster, but here we no longer have to intervene in emergency, but in prevention. There are 70 million not spent in six years that could have brought our Modena hydraulic knot to optimal safety levels. Why weren't they hit? For eleven years the flooded committee has not by chance been active, it makes proposals and ideas, but the left-wing administrators have been very careful not to let themselves be involved. There's no one here at PD and I'm sorry. The Democratic Party tells us that it is not the moment of controversy and hides behind the excuse of climate change that causes extraordinary events, but two almost identical alluvial events within just six years no longer have anything extraordinary. The fault of the left-wing administration, which, instead of managing the emergency, should prevent it, is obvious. By now everyone knows that the Modena hydraulic knot composed of the rivers Panaro, Secchia and Naviglio is of strategic importance and the Emilia-Romagna Region is the one at greatest risk for its conformation: high mountains to the south and a large river to the north. We need to secure the Modena hydraulic knot and change strategy, putting in place barriers that over time have a return of two hundred years. The Modenas are waiting for an immediate change of strategy for the future. The Modena mountaineers, in particular, expect serious interventions for the maintenance of streams, bridles and bridges, the cleaning of river beds, less bureaucracy and more common sense. If you forget about the mountain, first its water and then its land descends to the valley and even more serious tragedies can occur. Mr President, preventing and not curing is the motto of the League and, fortunately, the Modena League has already been active in raising funds and necessities for these unhappy Modenas, and to these and other volunteers I thank them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-281.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 15 December, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.13 p.m.
