ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u2	President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u3	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u5	On 3 September 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform your Lordship that by decrees of today's President of the Republic, adopted on my proposal, subject to approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegation of functions conferred by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, has been awarded the title of Deputy Minister to the Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicastery on. Dr. Laura CASTELLI and Sen. Dr. Antonio MISIANI. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u6	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1883. I would remind you that the general debate took place at yesterday's sitting. I call the rapporteur, Senator Sudan.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u7	Mr President, we are going to vote on the bill of conversion after a careful debate, which has indeed seen intense work, the confrontation between all the parliamentary groups and the dialogue with the productive, academic, trade union, professions and associations. In fact, we have acquired, also in relation to the complexity and variety of the topics dealt with, about 90 written contributions from all categories of experts, which we have audited in the Joint Commissions 1a and 8a, carrying out the work with the active and active contribution of the Government and the constant support of the Offices of the Senate and the parliamentary groups, to which I renew my thanks. Despite the fact that the deadlines for the conversion procedure and the wide extension of the issues dealt with had to go a little bit further, I think we can say with satisfaction that we have carried out a careful examination, which has not only contributed to a significant improvement in the text, but has given us all elements of knowledge and reflection for the continuation of legislative activity. The importance and usefulness of the work carried out has been recognised, despite the inevitable difference of emphasis and opinion, also by many of the speeches made by colleagues, both by majority and opposition. As I have already said in the report, it was clear from the outset that the number of issues to be addressed was broad and made even more urgent than the complex situation we are experiencing. It was clear - and I say this to some of my colleagues, who also drew attention to a number of issues - that a measure like this, which already contains disparate and heterogeneous rules, cannot and could not respond to any and all problems. On the other hand - you will allow me to reflect - many essential measures for the modernisation of public administration, for the simplification of procedures, for the rationalization and adaptation of the discipline of the different sectors, could never have found attention and acceptance except in the context of a measure clearly of a legal nature, an intervention that explicitly and directly pursues these aims. On the other hand, to mention one of the aspects of the decree-law that we are going to convert, having recognized the dimension of digital citizenship, the opportunities for citizens and businesses to always and effectively interact with the public administration through telematic channels is a need matured over time, which the emergency linked to the pandemic has brought to light in all its urgency. We cannot fail to recognise such a need, at the risk of creating an ever deeper shift between a society and an economic fabric, for which digital tools are now an integral part of everyday life, and a public administration, which despite the efforts and innovations introduced, is not yet fully equipped to manage the processes in their entirety in the digital form, with the undeniable advantages in terms of efficiency, transparency and speed of administrative action, just as we could not, nor can we avoid responding to the demand for modernisation of the country's infrastructure. It is precisely on this point that the challenge of the economic recovery and competitiveness of the country system is played in large part, which will never be able to rise and hold up the pace of the rest of Europe without guaranteeing roads, ports, railways, highways, energy networks and communication to the height of the further transformation and the further productive evolution, that the post-Covid phase will impose. Unlocking the process of realization of a myriad of small and large works, infrastructure, environmental and hydrogeological maintenance operations, up to sports facilities, means freeing productive energies and employing an immense mass of resources blocked by the inertia of bureaucracy, by the game of vetoes, by a often improper recourse to litigation before administrative jurisdiction. It is a mass of resources and interventions that can already be a shock in themselves, especially for those local economic systems that were already languishing before the great crisis and for which to start work means, both to generate in the immediate employment, that to have instruments that allow for lasting development. To those who detect the limits of an order measure it is easy to answer that little or nothing is necessary to allocate resources for one or the other excellent purpose, for one or another strategic infrastructure or investment program, if then those resources are not actually able to spend, if then those good projects remain stranded in irrational, farraginous and senseless procedures. On the other hand, removing obstacles and simplifying procedures for infrastructure, such as private initiative, gives policy and institutions a power to choose and orientate which has all too often, in fact, been distorted and entangled, improperly giving veto powers to too many people who do not necessarily respond to the objective public interest. It is also a question of helping to redesign the role of the administration, restoring a framework of greater certainty of competences and responsibilities, starting from the management, in order to arrive at every office and service, where the citizen must be able to find attentive interlocutors who give answers in certain times, according to transparent and impartial procedures, because it is precisely the tendency to inertia, favored by a unclear picture of the norms, the pathology that already plagued the Italy system: a vicious circle that feeds itself and that must be broken. In fact, I believe that, at a time when a virus has already brought, in addition to the pain for broken lives, also the weight of a serious economic, social and occupational crisis, not even a great country like ours can afford not to cure a pre-existing disease certainly represented by the heavy bureaucratic machine of Italy. As we have rightly said and as I said myself, the conversion of this decree-law, enriched and improved by Parliament's work, is not a point of arrival and cannot be a miraculous cure, but it is certainly the beginning of a decisive change of course and of a new approach. To lighten the way in which infrastructure is being built, to simplify administrative procedures, to modernise the discipline of many sectors, to guarantee citizens and businesses a transparent, fast and digital relationship with public administration are the challenges we are and will still be faced, the challenges to which we are beginning to give a concrete and strong response to this measure. It is therefore necessary and urgent to proceed decisively, including with further measures, in the process of administrative simplification, in order to make the functioning of the public administration more comprehensible and streamlined. For this reason, in conclusion, not before having renewed to all the thanks for the fruitful work carried out, I hope that this spirit and this direction of march can inspire the still great work that we have before us, because a simpler country is a more just country, to which we legislators must offer the tools so that it can get back up and resume to run, finally free from the too many laces and constraints that mortify the best ideas, intelligences, skills and planning of Italy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u8	I call the rapporteur, Senator Garruti.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the speeches, in many of which the general picture has been highlighted, which for months has upset the work of Parliament and the lives of millions of Italians and which has led to the birth of this decree-law, in which elements of considerable importance are included. Returning to normal is not and will not be easy, also because the emergency health can not be considered fully exceeded and the attention must still be high. However, at this stage we need to restart and to do so the Government and the majority are pursuing a whole range of innovative and necessary measures. The bill of conversion of the Decree-Law simplifications represents one of these and I would like to emphasize it. It has been the subject of a great deal of work by Commissions 1a and 8a, with listening, examining the amendments and river meetings to improve a text by accepting the improved proposals from wherever they came from. We are aware that this measure is not completely resolving all the problems related to bureaucracy, because only one text cannot address the so-called jungle legislation produced in decades of laws, articles and paragraphs that have regulated the same matters by creating slow and cumbersome procedures. In any case, the text addresses many issues and at this stage of restarting it can give impetus to sectors such as construction and concreteness to other interventions put in place by the Government. I am thinking, for example, of the 110% superbonus on energy efficiency interventions for housing and anti-seismic prevention. Replying to the speeches of each of you would take hours, but now let me focus on those which, even outside this House, have fueled the debate of the last few days, not without misleading and instrumental readings, taken also from some speeches in general debate. On the recalibrate of the erarial responsibility someone ventilated a sponge stroke. It has been said that the Court of Auditors at the hearing has also stated that it is not appropriate to limit its liability to the sole malpractice case for public officials who sign the case. We have of course listened very carefully to the judgment of the Court of Auditors, but we are convinced of the goodness of the solution found to overcome the legal and doctrinal contrast and the Italian atavistic problem of the paralysis of the signature; moreover, the problem highlighted on other occasions by the Court of Auditors itself and by other independent authorities. I would stress, therefore, that there has been no turning back on the erarian responsibility, which remains for serious fault and will only in the case of the omissive behaviour of the public official to whom the practice is subject, and the same responsibility is limited only to the dole in the case of the official who signs and who therefore remains prosecutable. A subject which, on the other hand, seems to have escaped the controversy, but which I would like to bring to the attention of those who listen to us, concerns digitisation. On the point we can say that with the decree-law simplifications has arrived the turning point. In this measure there is the public administration that we want, the one that puts the person at the centre, slimming procedures and bringing public services closer to the needs and needs of all of us. We strengthen the principle of ounces only, a principle that has been in force for some time in our order, but still unenforced. Public administrations no longer have to ask citizens and businesses for data and documents which they already have and which they can find from other public administrations. For this reason, the national digital data platform arrives, which must make public and knowledgeable data interrogable, available and usable to the public administration. We also want to guarantee to all Italians digital citizenship and the possibility of digital home: all digital public services must become accessible from the phone through the IO app, in which each of us will be able to equip ourselves with digital citizenship tools, displaying notices, communications and accessing all the acts and procedures that concern him. There will also be the possibility to indicate your digital home directly from the app and citizens will access all public administration services with SPID and electronic ID card. Precisely in these days the minister Pisano has announced the attainment of quota 10 million SPID Okay, okay, okay, okay, With the decree-law comes the single digital platform for notifications of acts and measures of public administration to citizens and businesses. The recommended paper is replaced by a digital communication, but of course it remains for those who will have transitory difficulties with the technological tools. In essence, the digital one becomes the normal way in which public offices interact with citizens. The simplification decree goes beyond the approach that administrations should encourage the use of digital; digital must be used through administration. In addition, public administrations can hire experts for digital transformation and have an obligation to allow remote access to employees. The obligation for administrations to measure and publish the actual time-frames of procedures is introduced. Everyone will be able to compare the waiting times. Finally, we say that the delay is paid: several measures taken by the public administration after the expiry of the deadlines will be ineffective, except in the case of unlawful action. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no revival without simplification. The central nucleus of the simplification decree consists of sburocratization, simplification of procedures and, as mentioned above, digitisation. We would not be able to grasp the importance of this measure if we did not look at the 209 billion for investments coming with the recovery fund. This is the largest investment plan that Italy has ever seen, achieved thanks to President Conte's commitment to Europe. For this reason it is necessary to be able to spend these resources profitably and promptly and the decree simplifications will give a great impulse in this direction. Before concluding, Mr President, let me once again thank my colleagues in the majority and opposition of the Commissions 1st and 8th for the unceasing work of these weeks, the members of the Government whose constant presence has made the parliamentary debate, the offices of their respective Commissions profitable for their indispensable work and those who, in various ways, have helped to improve the conversion into law of this - in my opinion - important measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u12	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, to inform you that there is an agreement between the groups on the short way to ask you to suspend the work for a few minutes, pending the outcome of the Presidency's assessments of the text. I understand that we are close to the conclusion and therefore to the possibility of proceeding with our work. We are asking for a few moments of suspension pending an understanding of how the Presidency intends to proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u13	Senator Ferrari, I am willing and willing to accept your request, but a few moments is a little' indefinite in order to establish a shooting time. Mr Ferrari (PD). I'd say 12:00. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there is agreement with this proposal, I do not comment, I suspend the sitting until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.22 p.m. and resumed at 12.15 p.m.) He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u14	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration, which substantially transposes, with some technical corrections, the amending proposals approved by the Commission, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust. I note that the text contains a further, particularly urgent provision, aimed exclusively at extending to 30 November 2020 the deadline for the granting of contributions relating to minor damage reported following the earthquake that hit Central Italy in 2016, due to expire on 20 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has carefully considered, in constant liaison with the Presidents of the Permanent Commissions 1a and 8a, the amendments tabled to the measure under consideration. Therefore, in accordance with what has already been established during the examination in the contact person, it declares impossible, pursuant to the first paragraph of Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, all the amendments indicated in the list in distribution, as they are unrelated to the object of the decree-law. With regard to the amendments approved by the Commissions, the Presidency also declares that amendment 19.0.76, which contains provisions on linguistic knowledge for the recognition of professional qualifications in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, as alien to the object of the decree-law, is not feasible under the same rule. Consequently, in accordance with Article 161, paragraph 3-b, the Presidency provides for the deletion of the provision identical to amendment 19,0.76, contained in the amendment fully replacing the draft law of conversion submitted by the Government. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament again, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment fully replacing the single article of draft law No 1883, conversion to law of Decree-Law No 76 of 16 July 2020 in the text declared admissible by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u17	The Presidency takes note of the question of confidence in the adoption of the fully replacement amendment submitted by the Government and, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, forwards the text of the amendment to the Budget Commission, which is now authorised to convene. I invite the Conference of Leaders to organise the debate on the issue of trust. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.20 p.m. and resumed at 12.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u18	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the decree-law on digital simplification and innovation. For the discussion on confidence was divided about one hour on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. They will follow the explanations of vote around 1.30 p.m. and call it at 2.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u19	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u20	Mr President, it should first of all be said that the decree-law on simplification and digital innovation fully and fully corresponds to all the needs that have been felt over time in the various areas in which it intervenes: public procurement, procurement procedures and public administration. It is therefore essentially a necessary measure to promote the economic recovery of our country. It is the fourth intervention of this nature, after what we have seen in the past, and this set of measures - another will be in question in the next few days - allows us to face the emergencies determined by Covid so that the country can return to growth. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u21	Senator D'Arienzo, forgive me for interrupting, but I want to tell colleagues in personal discussions to do it politely with a low voice or to sit outside. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u22	D'ARIENZO (PD). When dealing with issues of this nature, which have engaged the Commission until late at night on several occasions, I think it is necessary to ask ourselves one question: with regard to simplification and the reduction of time, are we convinced that we have done something good? Does the measure really help speed up, which we all want in the various sectors in which it has intervened? We think so. We believe that in the text there are the main tools to restart the country's economy and to recover and grow the GDP that has been lost. I do not have to mention here the positive effects of speeding up public procurement investments, which, as is well known, have had for years several billions of euros still standing still, provided for in several budget laws, but which, for various reasons, have not been concluded. That is the fundamental reason. The simplification decree is certainly a courageous and ambitious reform, because it has the merit of taking concrete action on the issues that we believe have slowed down the construction of the infrastructure. I think Italy has a great opportunity, that is that in fifteen months, until December 2021, the public machine can put in place all possible projects, that over the years have remained firm in the drawers, using the rules of favor of the measure. These are economic initiatives for several billion euros. Having participated in the work of the Commissions, I had the opportunity to appreciate that there were no substantial differences in the correct relationship between all the political groups, and this was also the reason why so many representatives of the social and economic realities of the country came to the Commission to tell us that they basically agree. In fifteen months, therefore, an epochal turning point. Let's hope Italy is ready. We need an incentive effort in relation to the whole public machinery, in support of public institutions, so that this large volume of money can positively spread its effects on the economy and thus on growth. Many other choices contained in the decree-law will affect the real life of the country. I spoke in particular about infrastructure, but it also contains rules on agriculture, the environment and innovation, all decisions that have the merit of simplifying and promoting the implementation of initiatives with a positive view, in order to make Italy's interventions in support of growth more and more timely. I am convinced that we have also managed to find that difficult balance that is always difficult to achieve - but I believe that we have succeeded and the effort has been positive - between the need to grow and the need to preserve the quality of life. The decree simplifications, therefore, overall is a useful means available to the public machine. That is why we believe that its full implementation is necessary and, as far as we are concerned, necessary. We therefore welcome any initiative in support of the approval of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u24	Mr President, a valuable and timely work has been done in the Public Works and Constitutional Affairs Commissions to examine the simplification decree, with the aim of improving it. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done, the Presidents of the two Commissions and all my fellow Commissioners for the spirit of cooperation expressed during the work, in the sole interest of speeding up the bureaucratic process of our country and encouraging public investment during this emerging period. A work very well mediated by the Under-Secretarys of Government Malpezzi and Margiotta, to whom my personal thanks go, and which has enriched me greatly for the importance of the issues discussed and for their high impact on the lives of all citizens. If we are talking about streamlining procedures, we cannot fail to refer to the issue of public procurement and entrusting and to that of the extraordinary powers placed at the hands of the contracting stations for the carrying out of work above threshold and below threshold and, again, of the powers conferred on the extraordinary commissioners. I would like to focus on this, because it is precisely in Article 9 that a series of works that meet certain requirements are to be identified, such as the high degree of design and execution complexity and the impact they have on the economic and social fabric of the national, regional but also local territory. Their identification will have to take place by 30 December 2020 and for their implementation or completion they will subsequently be appointed Extraordinary Commissioners. But it is not enough, because in the next six months, then by 30 June 2021, other works that meet the same requirements will be identified, to which other Commissioners will be assigned. All this will, of course, be submitted to the opinion of the parliamentary committees, which will have to be given a more limited timetable. In short, it is being followed by a vision already previewed by the decree unblocks yards and that, for example, has led to the identification of a strategic work for Abruzzo and the Abruzzo: I refer to the safety of the aquifer of the Gran Sasso, a water system that continues to guarantee the supply of drinking water destined for about 700,000 users and that, at the same time, affects the infrastructural safety and the continuity of operation of a highway tunnel that crosses the Apennines for 10 kilometers, the tunnel of the Gran Sasso. With the adoption of an amendment, we have given the extraordinary Commissioner greater powers, so that some particularly problematic features that gravitate around this work, even in the context of hydrogeological failure, can be overcome and the work started immediately. In addition, again thanks to the adoption of an amendment, we introduce very important innovations regarding the road code. This government has been working for months to promote the transition to more sustainable mobility and therefore we have intervened to regulate the growth of traffic of the cars. In the code of the road we will have school areas where special attention is given to pedestrians and urban cycling roads that, together with the cycle lanes, will give a fair space to the various sections and on which you can travel in full safety and according to well-defined rules. At the end of my speech, I would like to focus on the protection guaranteed for civic uses, obtained through an amendment to the text of the decree-law. In fact, for the realization of underground works on land that enjoy the right of civic use, the protection of the owner remains to the carrying out of a classic iter - already planned and in force - for the concession of servitude, be it a private subject or a public body. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the vote of confidence in the Decree-Law simplifications we give a new opportunity to our country in this period particularly characterized by high expectations from citizens towards politics, which, as a result, have invested the legislator with great responsibility and to which we have not escaped. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u25	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u26	Mr President, we are going to vote on what we are still trying to see if it will be the twenty-second or twenty-fourth trust: an absolute record of republican history for a national government. To be the Ruler of change, I must say that it is undoubtedly a good result: change in the sense of changing ideas every day and that it materializes in the circumstance of forcing the question of trust (I imagine that it is a matter of "constricting," since it will not be a pleasure for the Government to place it systematically). I also imagine that the government must resort to this procedure absolutely to the limits of constitutionality, which, as is well known, is planned in an exceptional and episodic way, born and designed to counter the practice of parliamentary obstruction, with hours and hours lost to discuss thousands of amendments with the only real aim of countering government action by the opposition. Today this procedure has become instead an instrument that the Government must use to put together the pieces of its majority (because this is). This is not a political polemic, but a very trivial observation and a banal stand to the facts. I think that this situation - I say this to the Presidency, but also to all of us - is a little bit out of hand. I believe that there is a limit to everything and that the sense of modesty, at least, and the decorum of the institutions are not only in coming to the Senate with the tie. The dignity of the institutions - and I say this to the Presidency - also concerns the possibility of fulfilling a minimum of the powers of the elected, the senators and the parliamentarians of the Republic. Here there is an absolutely dangerous and absurd drift, to which no observer seems to want to pay attention, like any bad habit. This morning I was reminded of a parallel with false billing: a company starts with a bill and then at the end of the year, since the game worked, it continues, until it becomes a trap. See that the application of the question of trust is one of the limits of legality and constitutionality: it is specifically foreseen in absolutely extraordinary, exceptional and unrepeatable cases. It has become the absolutely established practice of this Government: 23 votes of confidence (this is the twenty-fourth) and a single measure approved in ordinary procedure in the Counte-a. All this by a majority that sees together the champions of honesty and change (in fact, the phenomena of honesty and change) and a party that draws on the republican history of years and seems to have become, instead, worse than the others. I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party: you come from history, you cannot allow this and it becomes a practice to vote with confidence on every measure, even one such as this, which determines absolutely important aspects. We can share or not, but we have to confront each other. You can't go on like this. I wonder how it is possible that the country's main institution does not object to this practice that has become absolutely consolidated: one branch of Parliament remains absolutely excluded and the other discusses "tooths and bites," as we say from my side (I come from Umbria). I have asked my Group to take the floor, not to rip my hair (which are also few), but to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a limit to everything and that the decorum of the institutions is also at the head of all of us, first of all the Presidency, of course, but it is up to each of us, Senators of the Republic, who are here for popular investiture, to whom we must clearly recognize some sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u27	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u28	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from now on that you do not inspire any confidence in us. The League's commitment to the measure under consideration was maximum, in the respect of the Italian people, despite the fact that the Government has effectively paralysed this Parliament, reducing the debate on a decree-law to a few days. With this move it is actually leading us to an imperfect monocameralism, which is actually what we live every day with this Government. A government that is becoming more and more self-referential and authoritarian: it goes on with decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (here we have discussed and suffered so many and these are administrative acts that, with their effects and repercussions, have crossed the administrative field), votes of confidence, roboating announcements in this House, unanswered promises, general states convened and concluded without a programme and absolutely mysterious entities, such as the task forces. On the other hand, there is the reality that we live on the territories every day: the Italians, the daily life of families, workers, businesses, young people and the elderly. The Government does not show any perception of reality; it has its own vision, which tells a country that does not exist, that is in emergency not from today, but for some months (we believe for a long time now); an Italy in which the Cassa Integrazione has not yet arrived at all, in which banks do not grant to the enterprises the favorable credits and the INPS system (the infamous INPS system) goes on tilt exactly when it serves, because when it does not need it does not go on tilt; a country in which the entrepreneurs are moved more to close than to open. I remember that the simplification decree was born to adopt slim, fast and effective measures, in order to try to get Italy out of the dramatic economic crisis unleashed post-pandemic; a crisis of demand and supply, because of which - the forecasts are of Istat and of the Bank of Italy, not of us, dangerous sovereignists - Italy will come out worse than all the other European countries, with a collapse of GDP of more than 12.4%, an estimated recovery to the historical minima for the next year and a recession that is almost double the German one. According to Istat, 30% of companies are in danger of closing down. In addition, according to the Bank of Italy, household incomes are cut off; 40% of households are unable to pay loans and 34% have difficulties with payments of installments and more than one third of households have sufficient financial resources for less than three months. It is estimated that the country will lose more than 800,000 jobs by the end of the year: a catastrophe. We must solve the problems of this country, totally abandoned by a government that has chosen, precisely with this decree-law, to leave out vital amendments, which would have allowed immediately the employment of Italians: those for the agriculture, tourism and gastronomy sector and on simplified vouchers, which we have been asking for a long time. See that there are 45 million hectolitres of wine to be produced and 25,000 jobs to harvest grapes. The difficulty is enormous. All this simplification that Minister Bellanova has explained to us does not exist, even in the regularization of migrants, of which only 10% chooses agriculture, while the rest chooses other roads. We have tried to support, through our amendments, great possibilities for our work and activity. I simply remember that, without a doubt, thanks to the League on this decree we have obtained a prompt execution of the activities connected to the verification of the integrity of the tanks of the GPL, with times consistent with the current emergency phase and with the possibility of using the best available technologies. We have also introduced a real simplification of the procedures provided for in the Road Code. Our commitment was also to take action on important amendments, for which we have bitterness in our mouths today, because they tell me that in the budget committee amendment 43.0.98 would have been considered impervious, because it seems that there is no cover: it would have allowed to activate a flywheel in agriculture, for young farmers under the forty-one years they set up (about 100,000, over two years, could have entered this system through our important amendment). [[Applause]] While I am speaking, the session of the Budget Committee is under way and it seems that Amendment 43.0.98 has been amended. I would remind you that the senilization and seniority of the agricultural sector is a common problem at European level, but particularly at national level. The European comparison reveals a rather uncomfortable picture of the impact of young people's businesses. In Italy, young people under the age of 40 who run a farm are 8% of the total, as they are below three percentage points of the European average. Above all, the fact that it is striking is the rate of generational turnover: while in Europe every hundred senior managers, i.e. over sixty-five years old, there are 32 young people, in Italy there are only 19. The farms run by under forty in Italy are currently 91,000: an effective policy of generational replacement would make sure that they do not close, because you see that every year in tens of thousands they close, because there is no logic of generational replacement. We need investment. Maybe we also start with agriculture 4.0; young people want something more from this sector: they need to be helped, but the replacement is not done in words; they need to be encouraged with ad hoc measures such as this, which is not liquidity, but an investment. That is why I ask you: if this measure does not go through this decree, it will be approved at least in the next one, because the Italian situation compared to the European one is very serious. We have understood that. I remind you that agro-food, food, today represents 25% of gross domestic product and all that is food starts from the earth and from the work of the earth. In addition, Mr President, another subject that I particularly care about is related to safety at work and accidents, including fatal accidents, such as that which happened yesterday in Cavallermaggiore, in the province of Cuneo, where Davide Gennero, twenty-two years old, died because of the fumes coming from a silos of storage of agricultural raw materials. Brother Francis, twenty-five years old, came along with his father to help him, was hospitalized in very serious conditions and his life hung by a thread. The esteemed Gennero family naturally has the closeness of the Senate Assembly and a prayer, with so much affection. [[Applause]] These are defined as white deaths but they are unacceptable tragedies for a civilized country, or at least they define themselves as such. White deaths are tragedies underestimated by official data. Well, we need to take action now. We need to invest resources because we do not just need controls, but we need preventive action towards small and medium-sized enterprises which sometimes have difficulty investing in this sector. Let us remember this immediately in the next steps. [[Applause]] In conclusion, Mr President, we do not stop, we do not give up. As a league, we don't shrink by an inch. It is shameful, and I say this now in this House, the trial against our leader Matteo Salvini, a farce trial. In fact, they would like to try all of us Italians who care about our country. We are proud of our federal secretary who courageously chose to defend Italy and Italians in unsuspecting times. [[Applause]] Only in the past month of July, the landings were six times those of the same period as a year ago, with the League to the Government and with the arrival - I remember - of many positive illegals to the Covid. The instrumental use you make of the media, your attempts to intimidate us and silence us will not stop us. [[Applause]] As I said at the beginning, we do not trust and as we of this Government do not trust the Italian people. President, try us all! We're the country. Always the Italians first! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u29	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, after days of close confrontation and discussion on the simplification of various procedures with technical bureaucracy and what would need structural reforms and clearly cannot be included in an emergency decree, we have arrived at a text formulated by the Government which takes account of the measures discussed in the Commissions and for which we are now being asked for confidence. A confidence in the Government that we believe is a guarantee for Italians who can count on the necessary stability in this particular and difficult moment aggravated by the pandemic not yet completely defeated. What we are about to convert into law is a decree that introduces in the field of public contracts and construction measures of simplification and digital innovation aimed precisely at lightening the pedantic administrative procedures that have all too often prevented our country from looking ahead in the strategic sectors for a concrete development of the economy. Clearly much remains to be done, stressing that these rules intervene in an emerging period to give only a few answers to crucial issues on which we could not let go. For this reason we are proud to have contributed, with many amendments that have been transposed by the Government, in order to favor and facilitate procedures that, otherwise and normally, require long times and overlaps between the agencies, as has happened in the within of the procedure of EIA, with the exclusion of the strategic environmental assessment for the airport development plans, as it always happens for the ports. In other areas, such as public administration, measures are also taken to promote the use by workers of electronic devices, personal or made available by the administration itself, to optimise the provision of work and, above all, to provide better services to users, without ever failing to guarantee the security and protection of the data and information available. So, a facilitation of so-called agile work. It is obvious that, in order to achieve real innovation, as I said yesterday in my speech, there will be a need for continuous training at every level of public administration service. Continuing training which must be well structured and cannot be delegated to an emergency decree, but is a natural consequence of the measures envisaged to make work sustainable, with determination of specific projects and objectives. For this reason, we will work, as had already been done with the Renzi Government, on a true reform of the work, which does not consist in welfare, but that will facilitate employment levels, recognizing, always and in any case, the competences and merit of each. A step forward with this legislation has also been taken by providing for testing by universities, research bodies and companies also for private individuals, thus broadening the opportunities for all those who work in this field, without limiting only to public subjects. Especially in the fields of research, we must democratically allow the same opportunities for everyone, especially our many young people who are often forced to leave Italy. Allow, therefore, this, both in the public and in the private, without ideological preclusions and without leaving the shortsighted management that has been up to now in environments that should make culture and, instead, are purely self-referential. I am pleased to have put an end, and for this I thank the Government, to the absurd situation, created also by the norms of decree-law n. 35 of 2019 (the so-called Calabria decree) on health, which had caused the blocking of the competences of the single regional contracting station, delegation all to conventions with other Regions, without carrying out any competition and, therefore, without bringing anything new to the health of Calabria, if not to allow an extension of expired races and an increase of costs for the Calabrians. A prominent interest was also given by local authorities and businesses to Article 10 on simplifications and other measures in the field of construction, introducing derogations from the limits imposed by the laws in this sector, also extending the definitions of extraordinary maintenance and building renovation. After all, so many changes to this measure, are part of the implementation of Italy Viva's infrastructure shock plan, presented to the Government and - it seems - also shared in part. Considering the moment of fragility of our country, it is important to have all the common goal of achieving the goals, even on the most impervious roads. Only with the good governance of the country can our activity emerge, the one we carry out with seriousness and responsibility, to give new meaning to the high and prestigious role of the institutions we represent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u32	Mr President, when I read the title of this decree-law (because, with the question of trust, which is always required, this is a decree, other than a bill) and I read that it was about simplification and digitisation, I told myself that this was finally happening in our country, after fifty years. In fact, it must be said that our Constitution, our democracy, is based on a series of controls and, as an extreme ratio, on the criminal assessment of individual behaviour. In recent years, however, we have had an exponential increase in criminal control and the elimination of administrative controls. Administrative control is not based on the philosophy of authorisation; the philosophy of a series of measures, taken in particular in the first Republic, which have affected the lives of citizens in terms of freedom. I thought that at last we should take into account what President Berlusconi has always said with his capacity as a great freedom fighter: we must eliminate the preventive authorizations and, only once the citizen has started an activity, we must control the legitimacy of his work. Unfortunately, this is not what we read in the provision at our examination. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. First of all, we are faced with a crime that is being modified for the third time because, in the face of hundreds of trials initiated and initiated for abuse of office, they do not arrive at a final solution of conviction or accountability of more than 10%. It was a matter of identifying a criminal element since that crime rule generically provides for certain behaviors that are already determined by other crimes. The reform adopted provides that there should be no discretion in the evaluation. Do we realize that, therefore, it will always be necessary to intervene the judge to determine whether or not there was discretion? That is anything but simplification! Mr President, I would have hoped for a comparison precisely because, after several years, there had finally come an argument that should have allowed a comparison not between majority and opposition, but between all those who are interested in the structure of the state. In the end, the question of trust was raised. I can honestly tell you that, if there had been a chance of a serious and positive speech and confrontation - which, you teach me, is not the debate because it precedes the moment of the vote and, instead, the confrontation takes place first - I would also have voted for confidence. However, you put your trust in knowing that it, not only forces the opposition to vote against, but also to take account of reality and, that is, that you prevented a real confrontation, which served to evaluate some aspects of social life that were to be corrected because they can escape anyone. It was enough simply to have the ability to identify those spaces of freedom that were to be regained and to give everyone the opportunity to intervene according to a model of subsequent control. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u33	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u34	Mr President, kind senators and senators, the confidence we are about to give the government this time is also deserved, in a special way, by two women: the Minister for Public Administration Dadone and the Minister for Digital Innovation Pisano, who, with their determination, have put in the field of rules that will mark the digital transformation of the country and - I am sure - will see us already from next year make a significant leap forward on the level of digitization of our country, which will be immediately recorded in the index of digitization of the economy and society of the European Commission (DESI). ( [[Applause).]] I would like to briefly list three of the fundamental innovations in the area of digitisation introduced by the decree-law that we can all benefit from right away. First, however, I would just like to make a brief remark to point out that among the amendments adopted at my first signature, in addition to simplifications in the context of the identification procedures of SIM buyers, the Internet of Things and the use of LPWAN technologies, which will allow citizens to enjoy countless benefits in terms of digitalisation of services and quality of life, there is an important norm that concerns the earthquake 2012, which has mainly affected my region, Emilia-Romagna, which finally allows the continuation of reconstruction work for about 300 agricultural and agro-industrial enterprises, which have suffered serious damage due to these tragic events. This Parliament and this Government have not forgotten you, farmers from Emilia-Romagna. Going back to the text of the decree-law, in Chapter 1 of Title III we have digital citizenship and access to the digital services of the public administration. It is yesterday's news that 10 million SPID identities have been activated; 10 million citizens are ready to use the digital services of the public administration. The Ministry for Technological Innovation and Digitisation, through PagoPA, makes available the electronic access point that, from the point of view of the citizen, takes place in the IO app. Thanks to the IO app and authentication that can take place indifferently with SPID or with the electronic identity card, the citizen can interact with the central and local public administration in a simple, intuitive, effective and fast way. For many services we will receive a notification on our smartphone and with a simple click we will have solved our problem. We've seen it in operation with the holiday bonus, we'll see it in action to pay the car stamp, the cafeteria or the school bus for our children, to renew the license or ID card, to pay the Tari and progressively for all services. The notification gets us on the smartphone instead of in the mailbox and our response is run with a click. No more offices, no more doors, no more queues, no more time lost. In order to guarantee citizenship with a click, the decree therefore obliges the public administration to provide its services also through the IO app and administrations must start the related digital transformation projects by 28 February 2021. Unfortunately, with the amendment tabled by the Lega Group, small municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants will be excluded, which - I repeat - unfortunately with this amendment could be left behind. In fact, for these small municipalities the start date of digital transformation will coincide with the end of the state of emergency that we are experiencing. The digital divide will therefore be increased for their citizens. Citizens of small municipalities will be able to thank the League that has negotiated to the last to obtain to create these digital citizens of series B [[Applause]] , which will not have digital services with a click. Instead, all other citizens will soon have the services on the IO app. In fact the managers of the public structures that will not start the transformation within the established date of 28 February next, will be penalized with the reduction not less than 30% of the pay of result and of the treatment ancillary connected to the individual performance, besides the prohibition to assign rewards or incentives to all the staff of own structures. This is a strong incentive not to introduce delays, which would only penalise citizens and their right to digital citizenship. The decree, in Chapter II of Title III, introduces rules on national cybersecurity. The text of the standard is concerned with spreading the agile working arrangements in conjunction with the adoption of any measure to ensure the security and protection of information and data, taking into account European and international best practices and national standards for the protection of their networks. Workers' awareness of the safe use of devices is promoted through appropriate guidelines, with particular attention to services provided through cloud service providers. All public administration IT services, especially those in the cloud, will have to comply with the technology code of conduct, which regulates the design, development and implementation of projects, systems and digital services of public administrations, in compliance with the discipline on the national cyber security perimeter. The security of our data will therefore be at the heart of the attention, design and management of digital services. Chapter III sets out the strategy for managing public information assets for institutional purposes, through the availability and interoperability of data from public administrations and public service dealers, as well as some simplifications for the national digital data platform. The objective is that the databases can finally interact with each other, so that the once-only principle can finally be operational. The public administration can no longer ask the citizen for information, which has already been given to it and which the public administration already knows: this will mean a considerable saving of time for everyone and a considerable reduction of errors, which are unintentionally made whenever the data pass into the hands of human operators. Finally, we aim to consolidate and rationalise the country's digital infrastructure: the notorious cloud of public administration. We have all interiorized the concept of digital sovereignty and that is certainly our goal, because from this sovereignty derive the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens of the present and future. [[Applause]] The principle of digital sovereignty is an objective to be achieved for the whole of Europe and which currently Europe does not have and Italy, being among the European countries the most backward in digitalization, is much behind in recovering digital sovereignty compared to other countries. The only prospect for this recovery is that it will take place for the whole of Europe together. Italy certainly can't do it alone. The public administration's cloud perspective, presented by Article 35 of the Decree-Law, is part of a long-term strategy, of which this is only the first step, namely the consolidation of services. We can no longer afford the bruntiness of 11,000 energetic data centers to insecure. For this first step we could use national strategic poles or the public cloud, carefully differentiating the location of services and scrupulously applying the code of technology conduct. At the same time, we will need to advance and grow our national companies, which have their business in providing cloud infrastructure and developing application and software services. Let us bear in mind that, over the next five years, the value of the data economy in Europe will rise from the current EUR 300 billion to EUR 830 billion, with a growth of 2.4% of total European GDP. Digital is the only sector that anticipates these performances, but will Italy be able to benefit from it? Only if we have the professionals who will devote themselves to these activities, in particular the software programmers. Today we have 5.5 million of these professionals in Europe and in 2025 we will need double, or 11 million. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I would just like to ask you a moment to finish my speech. All over Europe there is a shortage of these specialists and the shortage also extends to non-European countries. That's why all countries are looking for these professionalisms, also formed in other countries, to grab them. Therefore, our problem on the one hand is to train professionalism to develop our country and at the same time to be able to hold them, so as not to migrate them. The challenge of next generation EU is above all this, that is to convert a good part of the workforce into high-level computer professionals and to employ them for the modernization of the country and for the management of the security of the data of our citizens. [[Applause]] In this investment lies the secret of the growth and prosperity of our country and, at the same time, the freedom and rights of all our citizens. Our ministers have understood this and have started this project: we certainly support them and we strongly support the objectives of this decree. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u35	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. Colleagues, if there are no objections, I now have a 15-minute suspension of the work of this House to allow the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, to update us on the financial cover profiles of the amendment. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 13.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u36	Colleagues, in relation to the progress of the budget committee's work on the maxi amendment, after consulting the President of the Senate, I again suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 1.50 p.m. and resumed at 2.07 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u39	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since there has been a speech by all the group leaders to try to speed up the procedure, we wanted to thank you for the kind attention you had to us in agreeing to begin the explanations of vote, because in any case, on the part of everyone, there was the will to keep the timetable of our work as we agreed, without any problem. In addition, the Budget Commission, from what we know, has almost finished its work. They just have to write the opinion. Therefore, it did not seem right to extend the time for bureaucratic reasons, since then, especially for someone living in more distant areas, it becomes more difficult to return. Thank you, President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u42	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, even those of us who are used to doing politics as we used to, among the people, must be resigned. We live in the age of communication and this majority has understood it well because it knows the rules. He knows that words are certainly of great importance in the world of current communication. This is why Italians had to listen to a series of belligerent proclamations, a series of transpositions of reality that, in the end, did not have the contents that we all hoped for. We have heard of care Italy, of decree liquidity, of decree I throw again, all seasoned by what Conte wanted to put on the field by relaunching - this time the term must be used - the famous words "power of fire." We have even listened to the President-in-Office of the Council talking about the firepower with which the problems of Italian businesses and citizens would be solved. While I am speaking, as we speak, hundreds of companies in Italy have not yet taken the money and hundreds, thousands of workers - the weakest ones, those of small companies - still do not take the integration fund. This is the firepower of the Count Government. All this was not enough, though. It wasn't enough because we continued with the robotic words. Now we are going to vote, through the umpteenth recourse to trust, what President Conte has called the mother of all the reforms: today's decree simplifications should be, according to Count and according to this majority, the mother of all the reforms. Of course the word is all there, an evocative word, a magic word, because every Italian citizen, every enterprise has had to duel with the bureaucracy in Italy, has had to endure a long time and has had to fight in order to be recognized the most basic rights because of the bureaucracy. (Brusio). Mr President, I would ask you, if you can, to observe some silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, you can't hear anything. There's too much buzz. Ruspandini (FdI). So, net of the name, the contents are those that we have seen, that is, a measure that intervenes in a disorganic and disarticulated way in different fields and that assumes the connotations of an omnibus decree, a summa in which everything is found and the opposite of everything, from the discipline on public contracts to the right to vote for the Italians abroad, passing through the abuse of office, to the digital identity, the ports, the viaducts, the universities, the Alitalia, the assessment on the environmental impact; matter the last one that is very dear to me because, with great disappointment, I have seen the rejection of my amendments on the sites of national interest, relative to the tens of thousands of companies that are delocalizing because in Italy it is not possible, for those who fall in the SIN, to move not even a gate. With trade associations, environmental associations and municipalities we had prepared some amendments of great caution, of great seriousness and common sense that have been rejected, sacrificed on the altar of a simplification that simplifies nothing. That is why I am obliged to say, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, that the only simplification you have made and which you have achieved is that of parliamentary procedures, because you are mortifying our political action, our representation and this Parliament through the use of the task forces and yet another confidence. For this reason we announce the vote against the Brothers of Italy Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u45	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today, for Italy, Viva is a day of celebration. Having brought to the attention of this majority and then of this Parliament what we have called the shock plan and which today assumes the name of the simplification decree is an important political result. At a time when we say that unlocking the yards serves to restart Italy, we acknowledge the Government that it has been of speech. An observer of the times we are living that I admire a lot, called Massimo Recalcati, says that there is a taboo in today's political debate. It's the taboo of gratitude. It is as if expressing gratitude is something so out of fashion, démodé, unusual, that it sounds strange. Here, today, I want to express gratitude to the President of the Council, to the members of the Government, to the majority, to the whole parliamentary arc, because today there is clarity on a point that we in Italy Viva had placed. When, you will remember, because the majority has observed it and the opposition has attacked us, we have put a theme of distance and dissidio, also towards the majority, at a certain moment in the spring of 2020, many observers have said: who knows what those of Italy Viva will ask, how many places, how many Undersecretaries, how many Ministries. Well, the places are always the ones before. We did not ask for seats, but we asked for the political responsibility to say that this country starts again from infrastructure and construction sites, not from subsidies and assistance. The President-in-Office of the Council has spoken on this, because the simplification decree is the answer to our demands. Is that enough? We'll see about that. It is not the act that we dreamed of, but we recognize that there is much in that act that we asked for. And we recognize that this was possible for an effort on the part of everyone, but also because we have to learn from the history of our country. The history of our country is a story in which, if we look at the last few years, the episodes of greatest success are those that have seen the presence, as the decree simplifications previews, of commissioners and simplified procedures. Abstractly, this is questionable. In a normal country, things would work regardless of police structures. But politicians face reality, not their own ideological prejudice. If today Pompeii no longer makes news for the collapses, but it is news because people have come back to rediscover its beauty, it is because a commissioner procedure was chosen, entrusting it, a few years ago, to an important general of the Carabinieri weapon. If the Expo allowed Milan to become a European capital again, it was thanks to those commissioner structures that allowed the realization of an event that, in the spring of 2014, seemed impossible. Similarly, the bridge in Genoa today is there to prove that Italy can do things right if it wants to. Alongside this, however, Mr President, we have a duty of frankness. There are pages, even now, of bad politics. There is the bridge of Genoa that, with the pain of the fallen and with the ability of the workers, is divided, but there is also a bridge, a few kilometers away, at the border between Liguria and Tuscany, the bridge of Albiano Magra, which fell, has crumpled on itself six months ago and that is still there in the same conditions. The moment I say good and thank you for unlocking the shock plan, I also say to the government that much more must be done. It is not, in fact, conceivable that that episode, which did not make news simply because, fortunately, in full lockdown there was practically no one, is an episode of series B. There are many bridges, such as the one in the municipality of Aulla, which are still blocked. In essence, Mr President, today's decree-law is a step forward. The shock plan becomes law. That is a good thing, but there is still a great deal to be done. I try quickly to sum up the three challenges that I think we face. The first is a theme that concerns cities of art. We must be aware that cities of art are at risk of being swept away by the pandemic, at least in the short term. Of course, no one will ever kill Florence, Venice or Rome, but these cities have a double suffering. In this decree are inserted important measures for some cities. As a senator elected to the Florence college, I am very happy with the rule provided not by parliamentary work, but directly by the Government on the unblocking of the airport and I am very happy that it is understood that the investment in stadiums is not a toy for fans, but a piece of sports economy that translates into jobs and wealth. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have joined my signature on the amendment which will allow us not to be bound by the superintendence of stadiums. On the cities of art you do not go only with stadiums or airports. I say this very forcefully: we must have the intelligence, as a state official, the prefect of Florence, has proposed, for example, to go towards the system of urban free zones in cities of art - I see people who know cities of art for many reasons - or we will have a particularly serious suffering in these realities for the next two or three years. I come to the second point. Today there is a deep division between those who believe that reconstruction passes from bridges and those who think reconstruction passes from walls. I do not want to mention the great thought of Giorgio La Pira, but at the time of departure you have to choose the cultural model that you want for the country. I think - I say this with respect to fellow experiencers, even political opponents, of Brothers of Italy and of the League - that the idea of sovereignism has shown its limitations and we have already talked about it. I think lockdown has shown that Italy has everything but the need for sovereignism. Italy is a country that needs to be open to the world; it needs globalization and to be open because, if we block products, tourists and goods, we make the country weaker and, therefore, I believe that there is a need to build bridges and not walls. Another fundamental point of my speech is that we need to think about these issues. We have a huge amount of money (EUR 208 billion) coming from Europe and which must be spent in the coming weeks, months and years. What model of development do we put them on? I think that it unlocks Italy, the simplification decree that we are approving and the shock plan go in the direction of a country that creates jobs in the yards and not subsidies and welfare and I am pleased with this. The model of infrastructure development is the great point of discussion in the coming years. Mr President, I come to the conclusion: there is an important element that arises and I say this to the Government in this case. You were right to intervene by trying to make sure that the coronavirus was first blocked. I would like a message to come from this House also in these hours of great closeness and affection for all those who are still in the front row fighting against coronavirus, i.e. nurses, doctors and even those who are suffering from coronavirus. ( [[Applause).]] Mr President, through you, I would like to offer a warm wish for prompt recovery to President Silvio Berlusconi because I think this is a sign of great respect for a man of the institutions of whom I have been and am a political opponent, but who is currently experiencing a time of difficulty. ( [[Applause).]] Mr President, once we have said that the coronavirus is and is an opportunity to fight against a great problem, but also to start again, the last point is very simple: after the regional elections, the government and the majority will have to have the strength to come to Parliament and clarify in an organic, strategic and visionary way, if possible, as we intend to face the great opportunity of the recovery fund, of the 200 billion and - I say - also of the ESM and the SURE programme. Let me explain in another way: we must come to Parliament to explain our plan for the next three years or there will be no possibility for the policy to play a role. For this reason I say that the Government, which fortunately compared to the previous Government follows more Macron and Merkel than the yellow vests and Alternative für Deutschland, must take an example from what Macron did yesterday: 100 billion, 20 pages well explained and a vision for the coming years. After the regional elections, we await the President-in-Office of the Council in this House for a major debate on these issues. Meanwhile, Viva Italy votes for trust firmly. The shock plan has become law; it has won Italy, it has won politics. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as all my fellow Senators of majority and opposition, who have worked hard in recent days, are well aware, we are talking about a very complex measure, which is in addition to the many decrees issued to try to deal quickly with the emergency phase and to give answers, which were of urgency, in the sense that it was necessary to support families, businesses, guarantee the integration fund and emergency income. This was a series of measures which, in my view, were absolutely fundamental. The decree-law addresses another issue, which is that of simplification and speeding up for the resumption of works and works, to give a boost to the economy. I do not hide, as you know, those who took part in the discussions, even in the relevant committees, that we have put an absolutely fundamental issue that remains there. We must certainly work with simplifications and work has been done with derogations, which are provided for in the measure as regards the whole system of public contracts, invitations to tender and contracts. However, the issue which I believe concerns the whole of Parliament and which the majority must deal with, even in the context of the so-called August Decree-Law, is the fact that, in order to give a real boost to speed and simplification, a great deal must be done to intervene on the public administration. The part about digital innovation has been addressed in the measure we are examining, but we need a great plan - I repeat because we will continue our fight on this point - for a plan of hiring qualified personnel and technicians. For too long, in particular the municipal administrations and local authorities, but also the central administration apparatus, because of the turnover block, have been virtually reduced to bone. We need to invest in human resources, young people and staff skills. As is well known, long times come before going to the race, during the design phase. This is therefore the other bet that we absolutely cannot lose. We need investment and a great operation that will be crucial for our country. All this is necessary to guarantee quality, because we can go by way of derogation, we can make all the simplifications we want, but in order to realize the works we must remember that in our country for too long quality has not been there. Instead, it is necessary to return to large, qualified projects and not to pull out maybe everything in the drawers. I would like to take the opportunity of Senator Renzi's intervention to say that Parliament must address this issue, examine it thoroughly and say its own on the recovery plan. In fact, it is a great opportunity for Italy, which we must not waste, perhaps pulling old works out of the drawers to put them all together. We must have the ability to realize a great project that is truly to relaunch our country. With great tranquility I can say that the measure had several issues that were also critical for us. It has, however, been greatly improved. Parliament's work this time has produced a result, which I believe is of absolute importance, demonstrating that when the Commissions and the senators work, they are able to make a fundamental and important contribution. I now want to address another issue, which has taken us very seriously and which we really care about: the building simplifications. On the outside, things have been completely untrue: the contribution we have made, together with other colleagues, to the debate and debate in the relevant Commissions has raised an important issue. We think it is absolutely necessary to make a great plan of redevelopment of our cities. We have a building dating back to the seventies and eighties, on which we really need to intervene, because it was a tremendous building, from an aesthetic point of view, of urban planning and respect for the rights and quality of life in our cities. On this we must intervene, speed up and make redevelopment plans and therefore the simplifications, for this part, are and are fine, although in my opinion the Senate must finally face and dismiss the draft laws on land consumption and urban regeneration. We need a great project, which is a large part of the revival of our cities and our country. The work is based on the idea that the country's heritage and identity are the wonderful historic centers of Italy. Here is Minister Bellanova, who knows well that in his region there are jewels, even in the most unexpected places, historical centers and a precious fabric from the building point of view. On that we claim that we need caution. Of course action must be taken, but within a recovery and redevelopment plan, in which the public administrations, the municipal administrations, can manage and indicate what the redevelopment plan is. That is what we have done, and I would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs and colleagues, because, contrary to what was said outside, they have understood very well the scope of the proposed intervention. These elements constitute the identity of our country, the value of our cities, the great wealth of Italy: it is the great tour, Mr President, for which we came to Italy and we must continue to bring them, to admire these beauties. Beauty is an important and not only aesthetic value, but also an enormous social and economic value, which we must preserve and improve. That was the scope of the work we have done. We have also dealt with other issues and we have rightly corrected standards: let us think about the issue of environmental impact assessment. We have given back time to the public debate and to the citizens, to be able to involve them, because participation in the works is a fundamental fact, so that citizens know and know. We have pushed even further on the issue of renewable energy, because the energy transition and the green transition cannot only be done in words, but we also need to simplify, speed up and ensure that this can happen. This operation is closely linked to the redevelopment plan of our cities and to the absolutely fundamental measure of the superecobonus, which you will see will give us very important results, not only from the point of view of energy redevelopment, but also from the economic point of view. So, as you can see, there have been interventions and changes to this measure, which certainly make it an important instrument. I repeat again that this is a part, which we have dealt with. The other fundamental part - and I conclude, Mr President, by announcing our vote in favour of trust and the decree-law on our examination - is the great operation that we must do in the public administration and in the local authorities, because we need an extraordinary plan to bring in young and qualified forces and to allow a great opportunity. In fact, we have so many resources in the country and we must use them to ensure that Italy can resume its journey and truly realize its relaunch. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u51	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to say straight away that we will vote in favour of confidence in this measure, a measure which, as several previous Members have said, we consider important for the country. It is a decree that qualifies the action of government and that allows us to better face the restart after the Covid; a measure that comes out enriched and improved by the parliamentary confrontation, the positive work of the majority and the contribution of the same opposition, to which I would say that we cannot, on the one hand, flag the approval of dozens of own amendments and then denounce the alleged lack of will of the majority to open to the contributions of the opposition and to collect them. [[Applause]] We have done a good job together, it is not shameful to recognize it. Again, we will vote for confidence in a really useful measure for the country: we can say and we should all say it also because, beyond words, propaganda and vulgarity - even today I heard Senator Salvini say that the Government is criminal - beyond all this, precisely beyond the propaganda of the opposition, if it were not a very useful measure for the country, you should explain why you proposed and obtained to prolong its effects by five months. This measure shows that it is possible to speed up the works, reduce the time without sacrificing the rules, transparency and protection of the work. You can reduce the time and bureaucratic constraints without suspending the anti-mafia code or the procurement code - as someone would have liked or, better, as someone would have liked. We will show barter theorists more works, if there is less legality, that instead it is possible and right to keep things together. On the conviction that we must reduce the time and bureaucracy without eliminating the protections of legality and the rules, the government and the majority have built - I think well - this provision. This is the figure of the decree: we free huge resources to contract public works and infrastructure, accelerating tenders and not giving up transparency. In addition, after the amendments we have proposed and which have been approved on the publication of notices and on the rotation of companies for contracts above the threshold, we have further improved the transparency aspect. Also on the construction - Mrs De Petris has just mentioned it - not only the norm, as it emerged from the discussion these days, significantly simplifies the administrative and authorization procedures, but does so without taking away the prerogatives of mayors and administrators with respect to urban planning choices. This is a measure that facilitates urban regeneration and frankly I cannot understand some controversy these days. Of course it cannot exhaust the theme and we certainly need, even in this Chamber, to take in the hands as soon as possible a bill on urban regeneration. However, it must be made clear that here there are already the demolition and reconstruction of existing buildings that need to be replaced, which is considered a simple renovation and not a new construction. It will be allowed to intervene on the shapes and increase the volumes. In most cases, it will be enough to simply report the start of activity. Work can be started without having to ask permission to build, as the intervention of abatement and reconstruction approved to a restructuring. This is urban regeneration. We've also done more. With an amendment tabled together with Senator Collina, we have made it possible - only with the SCIA and without the permission to build - to build new buildings of public interest: schools, hospitals, social housing; all this accelerates. Nor is it true that this measure blocks interventions in historic centres. For such interventions will continue to serve the permit to build; of course, they will not be able to be approved for simple renovations, but the killing and reconstruction remains possible, also modifying the shapes and volumes, if consistent with the municipal and regional urbanist instruments. To argue that this is a measure to prevent the demolition and reconstruction of obsolete buildings is wrong; on the other hand, to argue that a measure such as this must also serve to prevent the demolition and reconstruction of valuable buildings I think is right. It is not true that it is a block of interventions; it is simply a choice to safeguard a cultural and historical heritage of this country. In fact, on the building sector there is an important simplification that can create work and improve cities, done with balance, keeping together the need to do quickly, protecting the historical, cultural and valuable heritage. There is much more to this decree-law, Mr President, that should be valued. I shall confine myself to three points because my colleagues have already dealt with many issues during the debate. The first concerns innovation and digitisation of public administration: a very important part of the measure, which will make life easier for families and businesses, putting public administration in a position to be closer to citizens and to give faster responses to citizens and businesses. The second element I want to highlight is the work of the Groups and the intercourse with the Municipalities. I am referring to the amendments adopted on mobility in cities, which give us more tools to organise mobility by preventing post-Covid, with difficulties in using public transport, from turning us back to a widespread and priority use of the car, with the devastating consequences it would have on traffic and the environment. Finally, I would like to say to those who have supported it that no crime has been abolished. A better balance has been found on office abuse - even here -; there is a need to give greater certainty and tranquility to those who assume responsibility in public administration. To argue that if there is no malpractice there can be no malpractice, just as it is to believe that, if a rule leaves room for discretion, the crime possibly committed cannot be the abuse of office. On the other hand, it is right that it should become a liability to be sanctioned that of those who do not assume the responsibility to the full to ensure time appropriate to the authorization procedures. That's what the measure says. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that we will vote firmly on a text that - I repeat - is useful, important, innovative and concrete; a decree-law that serves the country. In general, when politics are being made, when we are in Parliament, there are two ways to go: either you choose to shake the problems to bring home some extra votes or you try to solve them, putting first the interest of the country. I want to say this to the majority: we must be proud of the work we have done, of having chosen the second path, that of responsibility and awareness that, today more than ever, our duty is to help families and businesses to start again, in a country that works better. That is what this measure is for. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u54	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, I would like first, if I may, since I feel obliged to thank Senator Matteo Renzi for doing so, to address an affectionate and heartfelt thought to our President of Forza Italia Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause]] Having been admitted to San Raffaele Hospital this night, I wish him, on behalf of the whole Forza Italia Group, the most affectionate wish that he can return to us as soon as possible. Entering the substance, I do not hide that this to our examination is for us of Forza Italia a measure of particular significance. Ours is a political movement born and grown around just the idea that this country became simpler, easier for Italian citizens, so talking about simplification for us means everything. You understand well that for a political movement that bases its thought and action on putting at the center of its attention, of its political action the citizen and not the State, not the public, the idea of implementing a measure like this was of extraordinary importance and above all of extraordinary political scope. This is the reason why we had already moved before and when the President of the Council of Ministers, in response to our proposals and our requests also to repeal the Code of Procurement, started the idea of creating a decree-law that dealt exactly with this wide-ranging task, talking not only about the code of procurement, but also about private building, earthquake and other issues of great urgency and topicality for our country, we have taken it as an important occasion. This is the reason why we at Forza Italia have put ourselves even more in a logic of collaboration with the Government and with the majority. Well, I must tell you that on this occasion too, unfortunately, the feeling that emerges between us is disappointment. We are deeply disappointed. [[Applause]] We are disappointed first of all about a concept, which is evidently in the mind and heart of the President of the Republic of Mattarella, but not the representatives of this majority, namely that this pandemic, this epidemic of coronavirus that has hit our country and not only, could and should have been an extraordinary opportunity, an extraordinary opportunity to achieve two results: first of all a true national cohesion, a unity of people that put together not only those who vote for you, but also those who vote for us, who today seem to be the majority. [[Applause]] In times of difficulty, as has happened in the past, I think for example after the war, the people must be united if they want to achieve high goals, they cannot divide, and never like on this occasion we had the opportunity to do so. Secondly, when tragedies of this magnitude occur, the beginning of the hour or never applies. [[Applause]] This could have been an extraordinary opportunity to unlock our country from a terrible culture of suspicion that has blocked every activity of this country for thirty years. [[Applause]] We are disappointed because we have addressed the majority and I have nothing to say about the attitude of the Undersecretary Margiotta and Minister D'Incà, who is here in this House, a peace approach, if we want to define it that way, but in any case of cooperation. Our contribution has been of real and genuine cooperation: we have not drawn up obstructive amendments, but we have proposed amendments, in particular those that we have pointed out to the representatives of the majority, who wanted to bring this majority to share them in order to unlock some problems that grip the country and are also highlighted by some members of your majority. Just now I listened to Matteo Renzi, who put as one of the first emergencies in this country the unblocking of public works and the construction of infrastructure. It is right to remember that Italy, after the Second World War, has put together all the energies, all the resources and all the creative potential of which the Italian people are capable to be born again, and within a few years we have become an example for other countries in Europe. We were the first country to build a motorway in Europe; but do you know that today we are the last ones for public works? [[Applause.]] We have a zero infrastructure capability; any other country can achieve them much faster and easier. Above all, what we have achieved in the past years is unfortunately falling apart. The collapse of the bridge in Genoa is not only the appearance of an inefficiency of those who ran that highway, but it is a problem that concerns all the public works of this country, the whole highway network, our bridges, our roads, our hospitals, even our municipal buildings. We need to get this country back together. [[Applause),]] because without infrastructure it remains planted, it dies. As has been mentioned before, I want to tell you that we have a problem that has emerged from the intervention of the PD colleague: he repeated five or six times the word "transparency"; he spoke of legality. But if we continue to think that Italian entrepreneurs, citizens and politicians are all potential thieves and criminals, we will no longer emerge from this culture of suspicion that has destroyed this country. [[Applause.]] But who thinks, partner, of doing the works illegally? We place ourselves exactly as a taillight if we assume that we cannot carry out the works because there can always be someone who wants to steal. It is an ideological approach and an absolute lack of trust in the Italian people - this is the truth - that unfortunately has meant that in recent years this country reached very low levels compared to others. We became the seventh world economic power in the 1980s. Mr. Undersecretary Margiotta, do you know we're not anymore? Do you know that we are now becoming the taillight? We can no longer realize works; whatever we can block them in all possible and imaginable ways. Would you like some examples of the amendments you have rejected? We have taken a number of amendments forward with the clear and clear understanding of trying to simplify life for Italians. Mr Caliendo said just now: the problem is that of exasperated controls, of all ex ante controls; in this country it is not possible to do ex post controls because we are not able to do so as in all other modern and Anglo-Saxon countries? [[Applause.]] That's not possible. We have made this kind of attempt hoping to find some cooperation, but unfortunately - let us be honest - your majority is divided within it: within you there are environmentalist, judicialist cultures, blocking cultures, cultures of suspicion, with which, unfortunately, you find yourself having to struggle every day. Even only an intervention such as that on stadiums, which was proposed by Matteo Renzi but also by us, the League and the Brothers of Italy, in the end if there had not been the vote of Forza Italia and the other representatives of the center-right would not have passed. Why? Because there are still some ideological predispositions that unfortunately block any possible intervention that stimulates the revival of the economy of this country. The best lawyers, the best experts, the best administrativeists, know perfectly that this is a unique condition in the history of this country and it is the only condition that can make us ready for a revival of the economy. Let's face it: this was a good initiative. As I said at the beginning, the simplification decree could be an opportunity, a unique opportunity to relaunch our economy. Well, only part of this is taken up. The procurement code, which was approved during the Renzi Government, has unfortunately blocked all infrastructural initiatives; our private building is unfortunately still blocked by all interventions and by all ex ante controls. The possibility of intervening, as our amendments called for, on the administrative judicial procedure, for example by trying to prevent the judges of the regional administrative courts from blocking everything by waiting for the merit, no longer giving any kind of suspensive and thus blocking the intervention, has not been taken by you, but has been rejected. There has been essentially an ostracism towards all the healthy ideas that we have brought in the interests of Italian citizens and that have not been grasped. We hope that, albeit indirectly, some process of improvement will still emerge from this measure. However, given the ideological or post-ideological attitude that still exists in this administration, which has not given our best contributions the opportunity to be approved in order to qualify this measure better, we will once again be forced to vote no. [[Applause]] The Forza Italia Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u57	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as my colleagues have done, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the President and the members of the Commission, the officials, as well as the Undersecretaries and Ministers present during the various days and long nights. Premier Count and the majority, as usual, had shot her big. They had promised - not to us, but to the Italians - that with this measure, after poverty, they would also abolish bureaucracy. Although we did not have great confidence in the roboating statements of press conferences and direct Facebook, we put ourselves at stake, because it was still an opportunity to give concrete answers to the country. An opportunity awaited by local administrators, trade associations and businesses. A strong demand, which comes from all citizens, is that the legislation we are dealing with is certain and not constantly changing. In practice, the expectation of a modern country, a G7 country, was that simplifications would become structural, on the one hand overcoming the procurement code, which - it is now evident to all - has effectively blocked interventions, infrastructure works and investments, and on the other hand facilitating the life of citizens. Our amendments went in this direction, but you did not want to listen to those who, from an administrative point of view, certainly have more experience than most of your majority. [[Applause]] , since most of the five-star parliamentarians have never set foot in a city council and even less in the council of a municipality. You went from the couch and your blogs to the country guide, and in fact the results are seen. [[Applause]] You didn't want to consider the moratorium on the procurement code. At least we succeeded, but only after a insistence from exhaustion, to make you understand the need to extend the terms of the decree simplifications until December 2021. [[Applause]] In this case too, you have been a bit cheap and above all not far-sighted, since we had asked to arrive until 2023. Do we want to bet that several of the measures adopted in the simplification decree will end in the next thousand extensions? The opposite of what citizens and businesses are asking of us: instead of certain, forward-looking, structural, far-reaching rules, you continue to put on patches that do not give certainties and planning possibilities. An experiment like this would have needed a longer time to understand its real effects. We regret that some of our common sense proposals have not been transposed. We believe that a number of articles will lead to various bureaucratic disputes and hiccups. An example? The responsibility of the OR in case of delay in the beginning of the works. It's not a simplification. This is pure complication. [[Applause]] If you colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars came out of that building that you wanted to open like a can of tuna, and in which instead you have now locked yourselves in, and you went among the people, in the yards and in the municipalities, you would realize that it is not the OR that blocks the interventions, but the bureaucracy that you are complicated, instead of simplifying, just because you see bad and corrupt in every administrator. [[Applause]] In this way, however, you offend and humiliate thousands of mayors, city councilors, councillors and employees, who work with commitment and honesty at the service of their community. [[Applause]] But you who have been locked in the palace and in your blogs cannot know the deck that you really do in the municipalities. [[Applause]] Again: how many litigations will start on the exclusion from the competition of companies of which it is known that they have not complied with contributions or taxes? Is that how you think about the recovery of the economy and helping businesses? By preventing them from having a contract on the basis of the alleged knowledge that they did not pay taxes? Perhaps it was better to listen to our proposals to overcome this point and to envisage the possibility of re-entry agreements. You did not want to understand what the fact of not having removed the reference in the acts of transfer of the small deformities, a simplification for the country authorizations to give the possibility to everyone to take advantage of the superbonus in the building. Or, given the difficult moment that we are living, you have not granted the possibility of derogation for all the Italian ports for infrastructural participations, as well as granted to the port of Taranto. It must be stressed, however, that a number of our amendments have been accepted and we acknowledge this, because on this occasion the voice of common sense has been heard in relation to other measures. [[Applause]] Of course, we have had to insist quite a bit and for this reason allow me to thank the colleagues of the League for the work done with concrete proposals, made of experience and listening to the territory. We were able to make it clear that simplifications were urgent to unlock contracts for local authorities and disabled people, to solve the long-standing problems of civil motorizations. And again, given the accumulation of outdated practices, the extension of the deadline for the return of the tax benefit for those companies that from 2010 to 2012 also benefited from the incentives of the energy account. Or, the incentives for photovoltaic plants located on closed landfills, exhausted quarries, reclaimed areas. Then, we managed to make you understand the importance of extending to the whole of the country the incentives to young farmers first planned only for the South, which will allow a generational change. And then the sburocratizzazione for the authorization of the zones of seismic character, that they risked to be definitively condemned not to be rebuilt. I said before that this decree was a good opportunity, but on certain aspects you even managed to make the legislation worse, rather than simplify it. We take urban regeneration: our cities often find themselves with urban voids to regenerate, a necessity that must not be seen as speculation, but rather as an opportunity. To remove these urban gaps it was necessary to encourage those who want to invest, not to put stakes. Those who do not have an experience in the field as a local administrator or as a professional, but only do the environmentalist lounge snobs, do not realize what it means to be in front of abandoned buildings, shelter of stutters and delinquency, which you feed filling our cities with illegals. [[Applause]] If we want to ensure that there is almost zero soil consumption, we must give the opportunity to demolish and rebuild within the urban fabric, without insuperable bureaucratic constraints. If I have a shed in a residential area, I look forward to years of practice and permits and then I am told that I have to keep the same perspectives and shapes. Let us take an example from the urban regeneration of European cities, let us not remain tied to the "nothing touch"; let us put clear stakes on the tied properties and not in general. You need courage. Then there is the unlocking-stadium surgery. Let me remind Senator Biti and dear Matteo Renzi that perhaps they are clouded by the craving for visibility and have forgotten it, that our amendment was also approved, but above all that, without the votes of the League, their amendment would not have passed due to the opposition of their allies of government of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] This was just one of the rifts and stomachaches within the majority. You are subject to the orders of the CGIL, as a representative of the CGIL said at the hearing when he said he had his own parliamentary group. And CGIL is anything but simplification. [[Applause]] Even more evident was the umpteenth turn of the 5 Stars: from the one is worth one and from the streaming always and everywhere, we have gone to solder the tuna box that they wanted to open after having replaced however the tuna with a good lobster. [[Applause]] Do you realize that you have adopted an amendment that eliminates the public debate from the authorization process of major infrastructure works and architectures of social importance that have an impact on the environment, on the city or on the planning of the territory? [[Applause]] But weren't you the spokesmen of the citizens? Or after you are locked in the infamous can of tuna do you think "who cares" of the citizens' opinion on TAV, TAP, waste-to-energy and large infrastructure? As I said at the beginning, it was a great opportunity that you took only in part, or even better especially thanks to our contribution that improved the decree. Unfortunately, you've gone into several articles and instead of simplifying, you've increased the bureaucracy. It is not by complicating the rules that evil is avoided, on the contrary. It took more courage, more confidence in Italians and local administrators. Instead, you preferred to lend yourself to be used by those who have as ideology precisely the complication, the boycott of the free initiative and the bureaucratic torture towards citizens and businesses. Putting trust, the judgment on the decree as a technician becomes political and this was not what we wanted. The vote of the Sardinian League-Party of Action on confidence will therefore be strongly opposed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u60	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the importance of this measure, the simplification decree, we must look towards the final objective, towards the future. This future and this goal correspond to one of the most significant points that have been achieved by this Government thanks to the stimulus and continuous support of the Movimento 5 Stars. This final objective is represented by a number: EUR 209 billion. [[Applause]] This is a great investment plan that we will be able to face in this country thanks to the recovery fund, now renamed Next generation EU, and not thanks to the marketing operations or the shock plan evoked before. On the point, however, I think it is important to make a digression: in the toughest period for the country, that of the first measures for the closure of production activities, the European Union's response was immediately lacking. None of us should forget that at that time a package had been put in place which, by providing for a few resources borrowed from the SURE, EIB or ESM plan, was completely inadequate and not up to the important challenge facing us today. And it was then that the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte, supported by the constant commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars, led Italy to become leader of eight countries to ask the European Union for a breakthrough, a change of pace, that put in place many more resources to finally find through a massive and I would say historical issue of common debt. And that is exactly what happened: a Europe that was finally different. Not yet completely what we like, but that has certainly shown that we can recover the value of solidarity that we need so much. From here come the 209 billion made available to Italy through the recovery fund, of which 80 billion in terms of subsidies. Never, in the last fifty years, in our country have we had the opportunity to realize a plan of investments in digital, in the energy transition, in the environment, in the strengthening and completion of the infrastructures. Never! All these points, no one excluded, are the historic objectives that the 5 Star Movement has been able to impose on Europe as a whole. [[Applause]] And here we are at the point: we cannot afford any hesitation in making such huge investments. We owe it to the Italians to put this money on the ground quickly and to give a perspective of development to our communities. For this reason, the simplification decree is fundamental. It will allow us to speed up and fluidize a whole series of procedures without ever abandoning the uneliminable garrisons to protect the legality and the environment. This decree has really been a great job for all of us. Let's remember: 2,900 amendments arrived; more than 1,000 those judged inadmissible; in the end, there will be almost 320 those adopted. Here, my thanks go to the two rapporteurs, the Presidents of the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Public Works, the President Casellati and the support offices. My thanks also go to the opposition colleagues. Thanks to the work done in these nine days, of which much in night sessions, we had the opportunity, together, to foresee measures to be implemented for the good of the country. The hope is that this way of working together can continue in an ordinary form later. Thanks, of course, go also to the Undersecretaries and the Government, always present. [[Applause]] It was a huge exercise in democracy. The decree simplifications, after the decree cure Italy, the decree liquidity and the decree throw again, is the fourth provision that the Government puts on the field in order to face this pandemic crisis without precedents, in order to protect our productive economic fabric but, at the same time, to trace the way of a prompt revival of the economy. We speak of a decree that carries out an operation of unprecedented administrative simplification, inserting itself, moreover, in perfect line of continuity with the decree unblocks yards, conducted in port during the first Government Count. As evidenced by the Cresme report, the decree unlocks yards was giving great fruits, which we can continue to catch with the recovery fund. It is thanks to the decree unblocks yards, in fact, that in 2019 has marked a more 40 percent of the issues of public announcements regarding the concession of public works in this country. And if we go to focus on public works alone, the increase was over 50%. But we know that it is not public bans that allow us to spend money in the country. That is why we are intervening with the simplification decree, improving it in the context of conversion. How are we doing this? With the award procedures, which we are speeding up with negotiated procedures. For the direct assignments we have been to listen to the voice of the professionals and of those who carry out engineering, architecture and supply services, lowering the threshold that had previously been previewed by the Government, bringing it from 150,000 precisely to 75,000. We do this, however, without ever derogating from the principle of rotation and transparency, for us fundamental cornerstones. Let me also say, ladies and gentlemen, that simplification is a result which we should strive for with ever greater intensity and conviction. As all independent authorities claim, it is in bureaucratic delays that the most dangerous risks of inefficiencies, opacity, business incrustations and criminal infiltrations are lurking. On this, therefore, we send back to the sender the accusations of lowering the guard. [[Applause]] Insinuations all the more laughable if we consider that, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, this country, with the law of corrupt sweeps, has endowed itself with more avant-garde garrisons in contrast to the sly and sly various. The simplification decree affects everyday life, not only in the works, as some colleagues of the other political forces previously recalled. In everyday life in the relationship with citizens, it will be the implementation of the National Digital Platform data that will allow us to achieve the objective that is the once only one; that goal for which the citizen only once has to produce a certificate or a document to the public administration. And if another public administration wants the same document from the company or the citizen, it goes to ask the other public administration and not again from the citizen. [[Applause]] We will empower the services through the IO app, also mentioned earlier by Senator Mantovani, with which we can have more easily self-certifications and formulate instances. We will replace the paper registered letter with digital communication and citizens will finally have access to all services, thanks to the SPID and the electronic identity card. Even in the recalibratement of office abuse and erarial responsibility there is no step back or sponge stroke. As for the abuse of office, we expect that, in order to configure the wrongdoing by the public official, it will no longer be necessary to take into account the possible violation of general rules of law or regulation, but the violation of specific rules of conduct expressly provided for by law that leave him no margin of discretion. Civil servants must be placed in a position to unblock works and works. The current wording is too broad and generic and often generates immobility for fear of breaking the rules. At the same time, as I said, we are reviewing the issue of erarian responsibility in such a way as to counter the phenomenon of the paralysis of the signature by public officials. For this reason we expect to maintain a more serious erarial responsibility in case of omissive behaviour by officials themselves. In essence, the erorial responsibility of the official acting - i.e. signing - is limited to the sole hypothesis of dole, while it remains for malice and gross negligence in the presence of omissions. We have also tried to simplify the procedure for private construction work. We have reduced the time for the seismic authorization or, rather, allowed to resort to the certified signaling of beginning activity (SCIA), instead of the permission to build, in the case of variation of prospects, for those interventions of demolition and reconstruction in the areas of Central Italy affected by the earthquake of 2016. ( [[Applause).]] Finally, it is by no means true that the intervention blocks urban regeneration in historic centres, which instead is well codified with the extension of the fields of protection from historic centres alone also to areas similar to homogeneous zones A and those of particular historical and architectural value. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country has a historic opportunity before it. The wounds left open by Covid and the tragic price paid in terms of human lives will remain in our minds forever, but we must make sure that they live with the memory of the enormous effort made to change a country that will finally be back to running. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u62	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u63	Mr Berutti (Misto-IeC). Mr President, the speech, on behalf of the IDEA and CAMBIAMO component, is naturally in disagreement with the position of the Mixed Group. Every one of us, when he hears about simplification, can only hope well and this also applies to every citizen and every entrepreneur and to those who are engaged in the public administration. So, like IDEA and CAMBIA, we were well disposed on this front. On the other hand, the idea that a public administration is necessary that can simplify its procedures in order to give in reasonable time concrete answers to the needs of the country is one of the traits that characterize our political vision. After we shouted it in every place, it seems that the need to simplify and innovate has become evident to everyone, even to this Government. Unfortunately, as we feared, the proposals from the Commission and the majority are only a poorly articulated series of emergent, transitional and experimental interventions that do not look at the system and processes as a whole and that risk creating a regulatory framework that complicates rather than simplify. To this it is necessary to add that most of the proposals put forward by the oppositions and by Cambiamo, in particular, have not been heard. Beyond a series of promises, which will then have to be realized - and of course we will see if you succeed - unfortunately this measure lacks an overall vision and the ability to give it an organic and punctual declination. We are therefore in danger of adopting a draft law that is complications and not simplifications, and that is why our vote will be absolutely against it. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u64	If we were to avoid the gatherings at the centre of the House, it would perhaps be better: please, everyone resume their seats; it is useless otherwise that we recommend ourselves with everyone on the masks and on the gaping (there is an improbable gathering). I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,900, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u65	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,900, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, and obtained the technical report, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the following amendments: the forecasts set out in amendments 11.9, limited to paragraphs 3-b and 3-c (a), 19.15, 43.43, 43.0.7 (text 4), 50.0.17 (text 2)/Coord, are deleted. 2, 53.2 (text 4), 55.8 (text 2), 56.91 (identical to Amendments 56.90, 56.92, 56.93) and 62.0.1. The opinion is also conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the following amendments: to amendment 7.7 (text 2), to paragraph 7-b, to replace the words "from 2021" by the following: "from 2022 onwards"; to amendment 8.69 (text 2), to point (c) - to replace the words "the territorial authorities" may be replaced by the following: "the other territorial public authorities" may, with the human, financial and instrumental resources available under existing legislation"; to amendment 37.1 (text 2) the following paragraph "2 bis" shall be added. The implementation of this Article shall not result in any new or increased burden on public finances; the administrations concerned shall ensure compliance with the human, instrumental and financial resources available under existing legislation. In Article 1, paragraph 226, of Law No 145 of 30 December 2018, the third period is replaced by the following: With the decree of the Minister for Economic Development, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, criteria and methods of using the resources of the Fund are established in order to facilitate the connection between the different fields of research concerned by the objectives of economic and industrial policy, collaboration with international research bodies, integration with European and national research funding, relations with the system of risk capital (venture capital), Italian and foreign. For the implementation of the intervention, the Minister of Economic Development makes use of the company Infotel Italia SpA, through a special agreement. The following subparagraph is added to Amendment 40.0.14: ==References====External links== The implementation of this Article shall not result in new or increased public finance charges. The implementation of paragraph 1 shall be carried out without new or increased burdens for the State budget and within the human, financial and instrumental resources available under applicable legislation. The implementation of this subparagraph shall not result in any new or increased burden on public finance. The Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and the Environment shall, where necessary, ensure the consequent compensatory updates of the electricity tariff components. 3 (a.k.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a. Administrations shall implement this Article with the human, instrumental and financial resources available under existing legislation. 3 (a.k.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a. Acquirente Unico SpA takes over in the active and passive legal relations of the person referred to in the decree of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Crafts, in agreement with the Minister of the Treasury and the Minister of Finance, of 5 January 1998. The activities referred to in paragraph 1 may be carried out by Acquirente Unico SpA through the acquisition of the Services bottom methane cylinders SpA (SFBM), subconcessionary of the subject referred to in the decree referred to in this paragraph, or of a branch of its company dedicated to the activities referred to in paragraph 1, to the acquisition value that will be determined by a sworn estimate, which quantizes the economic capital of the acquisition. All charges, including financial charges, referred to in this article are covered by the contribution paid by the entities referred to in Article 3 of Law No 145 of 7 June 1990, to the same amendment 62.0.2 to paragraph 4, after the words "with the decree of the Ministry of Economic Development" are inserted the following: "in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance." "In conjunction with the Ministry of Economy and Finance," "in amendment 62.0.5" (text 3), "in paragraph 1," replace the words "annual production" obtained by them with the following: "production" obtained by them in the previous year.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u66	Does the Government intend to accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u67	Yes, Mr President, the Government transposes the changes proposed by the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u68	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u69	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 76 of 16 July 2020 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Leo is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Leone. Montevecchi, secretary, makes the appeal. Senators say yes: Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Country, Carbone, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Croci, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Di Nicola, Garavini, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Fede, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, Floridia Gallicchio, Garavino, Garavini, Dono, Dono, Ludoruti, Dono, Ludio, Lago Senators say no: Aimi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Bergesio, Berutti, Binetti, Bonino, Borghesi, Borgoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Campari, Candura, Cantù, Casolati, Corti De Bertoldi, De Vecchis Faggi, Fantetti, Fregolent, Fusco Giammanco, Giro, Grassi Iannone, Iwobi Lucidi, Lunesu Maffffoni, Malan, Marin, Martelli, Masini, Minuto, Modena, Moles, Montani Ostellari Pagano, Papatheu, Pazzaglini, Pellegrini Emanuele, Pergreffi, Pianasso, Pichetto Fratin, Pillon, Pirovano, Pisani Pietro, Pizzol, Pucciarelli Rauti, Riccardi, Riccardi, Ripatti, Ripadini, Rifini, Rifini, Rifini, Rifini, Rifari Senator Durnwalder abstains. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 76 of 16 July 2020 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 241 Senators voting 240 Majority 120 Favorable 157 Contrari 82 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 76.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u72	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my fellow citizens in particular. I have always considered the month of September a bit like the first January, where we try to draw the sums of the past months and make good intentions for the new beginning. Looking behind us, we have spent months of very heavy suffering, economic crises, losses of all the citizens who have paid the price of this pandemic, who with work, who even with life. With the arrival of the summer months, all willing and ready for rebirth, we wanted to invest on trust in citizens, reward us after the months of lockdown and tried to restart the economy with tourism. I think of course of my island that in June was called Covid free, which reached more than 7 million visitors, despite the period certainly not favorable, and it has proved, once again, favorite destination by Italians and not only. At the beginning of the summer, however, we Sardinians were hesitant, we knew the risks that we would run in being such a popular destination and, consequently, to protect ourselves, we proposed the certificate of negativity, being mocked by the Government and compared to South Korea. Months later, when the summer comes to an end, after millions of Italians have poured into the beaches of my island, we see the natural and obvious health repercussions given by the inappropriate measures imposed by the government. We also see a media campaign exploited by the left, which makes Sardinia pass as an anointing island, when the only thing we have been is the victims of a non-treating Government, which preferred to think of its own armchairs rather than to comply with President Solinas' request and avoid many unnecessary contagions. There was no negligence on the part of the Sardinia region and it is useless the dossier that the Giunta Zingaretti has presented to Minister Hope to denounce the lack of collaboration of the island after the rise of the contagions. In July Sardinia had 0.3 of seroprevalence a given certificate from the Ministry of Health. As President Solinas has stated, the responsibility to control the health of those who pass the borders and moves in the ports of call lies with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which through the border health offices... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . He must take on these responsibilities. So it is useless to say that the positive cases, which are recorded in Lazio, come from Sardinia due to negligence of the Region; rather it has been known from the newspapers, from many testimonies and social networks that many young people, in order to pass free to the controls, assumed paracetamol. Therefore, I do not believe that this responsibility can be attributed to our island. As I said at the beginning of the speech, ladies and gentlemen, September is a month in which we must look forward and think about good intentions. I therefore very much hope that the people who have allowed themselves to condemn my island, will carry out an examination of conscience, such as Governor Zingaretti, who was the first to pay the consequences of his negligence against the pandemic, passing from appetizers in Corso Como to his isolation in March. Stop pointing your finger at the Sardinian government, but try to find a constructive way to deal with the situation. The pandemic can only be defeated... I invite you to conclude, Senator Lunesu. LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall conclude, Mr President. So let us focus on fighting the pandemic together in a constructive way. In the meantime, however, the governor of Sardinia, Solinas, has given the Region's lawyers a mandate to assess the real damage of the media campaign, as they continue to come undone and, above all, a situation has been presented that is of absolute falsehood.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-254.ana.u74	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 8 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.16 a.m.
