ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:02 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u3	I communicate that on 26 February 2020 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 23 February 2020, n. 6, introducing urgent measures in the matter of containment and management of the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19... (1741).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Health on coronavirus. I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u5	Mr President, I consider this possibility of reporting to the Senate of the Republic not ritual. Today more than ever, we need a close relationship between the Government and Parliament, capable of overcoming the ordinary constraints of relations between the majority and the opposition. To respond to the emergence of the new coronavirus must be our whole country, not a part, not a national or territorial institution, but the Republic as a whole, in a positive relationship with Italian citizens, who can play a fundamental role also with their individual behaviors. Allow me, at the outset, to express my gratitude to the Government and - I am convinced - the entire national community towards women and men who have been facing the emergency at all levels for days. [[Applause.]] I think first of all of our doctors, nurses and health professionals; I think of civil protection, volunteers, law enforcement and our local administrators at all levels. I am thinking, in particular, of the citizens of the areas affected by the harshest preventive measures. Thanks to all of them for the extraordinary spirit of collaboration. This challenge can only be won together; we will never have to forget it in the next few days. I would like to start by pointing out that our choices of these weeks and of the last few days have always been made from technical and scientific evaluations. It is science and not politics that directs our battle to stem the spread of the new coronavirus. It is the scientific community that defines the level of health risk, not others. It is up to us, in a clear distinction of roles and functions, to ensure, through our measures, a level of prevention and control that is effective and proportional to the state of alert indicated by our scientists and health authorities. In Italy we can boast scientists of the highest profile. The Higher Institute of Health is working these hours to reconstruct the epidemiological path of what happened. It is an institution that puts its roots in the ancient history of scientific research in our country. In the Institute they worked, among others, personalities such as Enrico Fermi and Rita Levi Montalcini. Let me tell you with all the strength I have: we have to trust our scientists. [[Applause]] They are the ones who are working these hours on rebuilding the chain of contagion. The first findings show that in Italy two outbreaks have developed: one in Lombardy, larger, and another, point-shaped, in a small Municipality of Veneto. From these, to the state of progress of the research, come mostly the cases reported in other centers of the North Italy, but also in Sicily and the Mezzogiorno. It was obviously started for each case, after an accurate epidemiological investigation, contact tracing at all and oropharyngeal swabs were carried out. The cultivated virus comes in these hours sequenced to define punctually the origin and its specific characteristics. To date they have not found confirmation the hypotheses around the zero case that has infected the first patient in the area of the lodigiano in Lombardy. On the basis of data also from other European countries, it is evident that both the areas of infection and the number of positive subjects to the new coronavirus increase daily. It is a constantly evolving picture, not only in our country, that does not lend itself to easy predictions. To this uncertainty of perspective, however, it makes to counter an obvious certainty: the studies carried out so far - the most authoritative of 44,000 cases in China - have shown that the new coronavirus in the vast majority of cases involves very mild symptoms. The comparison with other epidemics is also eloquent: SARS has a lethality rate of 9.6 percent; the Ebola virus, whose epidemic is still ongoing in Congo and is an international public health emergency of the WHO, has an estimated lethality rate of around 50%. On the other hand, the coronavirus heals quickly and spontaneously in 80 percent of cases, in 15 percent after regular health care, only 5 percent have very serious problems and the lethality rate is just above 2 percent and in a very large part linked to the pre-existing disease conditions of elderly subjects. Then why are we so worried about the new coronavirus? Because at a low rate of lethality corresponds to a significant rate of contagion which, in the presence of uncontrolled spread of the virus, could affect mainly the weaker and older population and overload our health care facilities very seriously. That is why we must continue to do everything necessary to limit the spread of infection. Not being available at the moment drugs or vaccines, so however the scientific community is at work, the isolation of the infected is the only way that effectively guarantees the reduction of the spread of the virus. For this reason the work done these days in Italy has had the objective to isolate positive cases and immediately trace close contacts. Yesterday, at a press conference in Rome, the head of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Andrea Ammon, said that the significant number of cases found in Italy must be related to the very high number of swabs performed compared to those made outside our country. In the same place, the WHO head, Hans Kluge, said that it is necessary to fully trust the actions put in place by Italy and the same European Commissioner for Health, Stella Kyriakides, always yesterday publicly argued that our country has taken very decisive and timely measures. Just yesterday, in the House of Deputies, it was discussed and approved with the consent of all political forces - a signal that I think is very important - the decree-law that gives the competent authorities the power to take any measure aimed at limiting the spread of the new coronavirus. Among the measures, as is well known, there are the possibility of isolation of municipalities affected by contagion (a measure currently adopted only in ten municipalities of Lombardy and one of Veneto), the possibility of suspension of public and private events and events, the possibility of suspension of university school services and educational trips, the possibility of suspension of the activities of public offices and competition procedures, the possibility of suspension of the activities of transport of goods and persons and, again, the possibility of suspension of work and commercial activities. The decree-law allows to adopt the recalled containment measures, both in the municipalities object of the contagion, and in neighboring areas. All the containment measures mentioned above have been adopted in good time by the Government: on 23 February the President of the Council of Ministers, following my proposal, after hearing the other Ministers responsible for the matter, applied the first measures mentioned. The measures, which we have taken in agreement with the regions, both those with clusters and those without clusters, have a priority objective: to take all necessary measures to stem the spread of the contagion and reduce the number of new outbreaks. It is in this spirit that we have worked in these days and I personally have worked, elbow by elbow, with the presidents and with the health advisers of our regions, which I want to thank publicly once again here too. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az, PD, Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Fat]] The same can and must also be done in Parliament, in a relationship of clear and clear institutional synergy between those who have the responsibility of the national government and those who, opposition in Parliament, lead a very significant part of the Italian regions. Article 117 of our Constitution defines competing competences between the State and the Regions in the government of the health service that, even more so, in a situation of national emergency, require a solid and effective collaboration with a clear and determined command axis. We cannot afford unnecessary selfishness or special protagonists. A loyal and fruitful institutional collaboration is now more indispensable than ever to beat the coronavirus in the coming months. For me unity means lowering the flags of part and always and above all giving priority to general interests. That is why I say here in the Senate today that we need unity and responsibility: this is my appeal to everyone. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Aut (SVP-PATT, UV), Mixed and Senator Balboni.]] Describing Italy in the wrong way can result in serious damage to our businesses, tourism, our country system. The President of the Council and the Minister for Economic Affairs are currently working on an extraordinary recovery plan to address the economic consequences of this emergency. But let's remember: Italy is strong, we are a power of the G7 heard and respected in the field of the protection of public health; we are among the first in the world as National Health Service; we have one of the highest life expectations on the planet; we are at the forefront in the treatment of many pathologies. I sincerely say this, with my heart even before my head: one cannot one day exalt the researchers of Spallanzani, the seriousness of the Higher Institute of Health, the fundamental contribution of so many of our scientists and then not follow with strength and courage their indications. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Mixed Groups.]] We don't have to be afraid. I repeat, no underestimation or easy optimism, but we, together with all other countries, have the strength and energy to deal with this emergency. Two days ago I received in Rome the Health Ministers of France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Croatia and Slovenia, the countries closest to ours. Italy is a credible reality, as was evident in the final document which we unanimously approved. It is a credibility that we have consolidated with the work of the last months and also of the last days. We have approved precautionary measures since 22 January, long before the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the global public health emergency coronavirus on 30 January. Already on 31 January we proclaimed the state of emergency for the coronavirus and appointed Commissioner Angelo Borrelli, whom I thank for the work he is doing. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Scandinavian countries have cut down their direct connections with China through acts of suspension of flights by their airlines Air France, Lufthansa, British Airways and Sas, just as we have reduced the more than 12,000 arrivals per week through the suspension of the 25 flights on Malpensa and of the 35 on Fiumicino to the week happened on 30 January. Every day 1,400 flights and 150,000 passengers from international routes are still checked with thermo scanners to intercept indirect flights from China. I would like to remind you that unlike what has been reported sometimes, no country in Europe provides for home surveillance or quarantine for those who come from risky areas even today. We have done this for students since 8 February and for all people since 21 February. To these controls must be added those carried out, on average, on 16 great ships a day, with approximately 5,000 passengers and 1,700 crew members. I believe in this work, and I sincerely thank all the people who have worked these weeks to achieve it. In conclusion, I would like to address the citizens who are following the public debate closely around the new coronavirus. In the coming weeks, together with the valuable work of the competent institutions, the individual behaviour of each of us will be crucial. Following the hygiene rules and recommendations of the Higher Institute of Health is essential to overcome this challenge. With full confidence in our scientific community, with sound institutional cooperation, with determination and promptness in the implementation of the necessary measures, we will overcome, all together, this emergency. Italy is stronger than the new coronavirus. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Mixed Groups, and Senators Balboni and Romeo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Health. He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u7	Mr President, we would like to thank the Minister for the work he has been doing over the past few weeks and, like you, I would like to thank the doctors, the law enforcement agencies, the volunteers and civil protection who, without any hunger for spotlights, cameras, television, away from all the media relevance, which of course such a great case has triggered, are doing an extraordinary job. I would like to stress the media aspect, Minister, because I believe that we must all make an effort to ensure that television and the press are used soberly and carefully. I know it's complicated, but I think it's essential to be able to strike a balance between the need to communicate to citizens and to ensure transparency and the need to avoid chaos. I remember how much damage China has done the lack of transparency on the story that covered another epidemic, that of acute severe respiratory syndrome (SARS); at the same time, however, we must be able to find a balance between these needs and that of avoiding that chaos can be unleashed and the message is passed that Italy, our country, is even the only lazzaretto of the Continent and of the world. Coronavirus cases are inversely proportional to the economic damage that is likely to be generated and that is already being generated. If less than 4% of the swabs are positive, I wonder why we risk a crisis of 5-7 billion of our GDP from here to June. If our measures are fast and decisive for the WHO, as I believe (because I believe that as a government we are doing a good job), why are there a budget of 4 billion less consumption? If there are only 190 people infected, why, according to the estimates provided by the largest professional organizations, are there 15,000 companies at risk of closure? We must strike this balance between communication and the necessary information for all citizens, but we must also convey the message, as you did today, Minister, that everything is under control, that, precisely because we have the best scientists and the best health system in the world, we are in a position to contain this virus and that we are governing a process that otherwise risks putting us in a state of absolute difficulty. For example, I am glad that Zaia said that the Vinitaly event will be confirmed and that Mayor Sala said that it will reopen the museums. I am convinced that, in accordance with the indications of scientists, doctors, the greatest experts we have in this country, however, these days we must give the feeling that this country reopens it, otherwise we risk more economic victims from coronavirus than will be the victims of the disease. Keeping a watchful eye on the risk of contagion is certainly a requirement we have, but we must also avoid being immobilized by fear. I agree with the fact that we are keeping our guard high and I am convinced that this is the case, but I am a little concerned about the second aspect, because I notice that we have been a little immobilized by fear. On this we must be able to say that, precisely by virtue of the data transmitted by you, we are a safe country; paradoxically, the security that we have built must become a sponsor for our economy, for our vitality, not an element of deduction. Therefore, I am of the idea that it is also necessary to be able to transmit this security that you have transmitted and that I fully share, as well as the country, also the international context, expected that, as you rightly said, the WHO has recognized positive actions from our country. In conclusion, these events show, Minister, how indispensable that amendment to Title V of the Constitution was in relation to the conflict of competences that is arising between cities, regions and national government, in which everyone goes a bit for his own business. We had already experienced this with vaccines, in the differentiation that unfortunately exists between our hospital systems, which are many, too many and very different; we had experienced this situation with respect to medicines, free or not depending on the regions. Therefore, how much we regret the defeat in that referendum on the modification of Title V in the area of health! I conclude my speech, Minister, hoping for next week a unanimous vote in the Senate, as happened in the House, for the measure concerning health interventions provided by the Government with the decree-law that we will vote precisely next week. Of course, we also expect speed on the second decree. We will forward our proposals to the government in the next few hours, because the measure on the economy of this country, on how to restart a country that has stopped a little too much, is as necessary as what we will approve next week. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Laus]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u8	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u9	Minister, come on. We met at the beginning of his commitment as Minister. With a gesture that I greatly appreciated, you listened to us, as members of the Senate Health Commission, along with your colleagues in the House. And even on that occasion, I showed her the same peroration to have courage. Its young age, its solid cultural political background, which I obviously do not share, but which I recognise, must give it the strength to put itself at the centre of an emerging situation which, at this moment, concerns health. Our leader today is you and, compared to this, I show you, of course, total solidarity. You, however, fill this role. At this moment, we must face this situation of disorientation, Minister. We have provided citizens with a series of information, most of which are conflicting, most of which are inappropriate, with an overlap of even quite singular roles. Today we must give certainties. Today we must entrust ourselves, not trust, to our scientific community. That is true, Minister, we have a solid scientific community. We have great scientists. Let's trust them. Let us establish what is the message that must be transmitted and transmitted. Up to this stage, up to this moment, we have done everything and more. And the citizens respond, evidently for themselves, in the same way, i.e. with reactions that are sometimes absolutely written, such as the attack on the supermarkets. We must also listen to our operators, Minister, the family doctors, who are the front office, the pharmacists, who are never remembered. It is not clear why, in fact, if a person runs a private activity in Italy he should not be praised and remembered. Pharmacists are a presence on the territory. Citizens go to the pharmacy to ask for information these days and we must send them a single message on what to do. Mr Minister, we then, of course, have the need to move on to the second stage. I am not telling you this, but to my colleagues, to the majority, to the government, I am telling Mr President. From here on, we must immediately begin to deal with the real problematic phase of this emergency and this epidemic, which will be the economic one. I therefore call on Mr Gualtieri, if he finds a place in his demanding election campaign, to draw up a plan and bring it to Parliament quickly. The decree-law of the President of the Council of Ministers, which you have already anticipated in the debate in the House, must have full availability of certain measures for our economy, for our operators of tourism, trade, for territories already devastated by the crisis, but especially today devastated by desertification. Mr. Minister, I think we need to ask ourselves in this passage about our National Health Service. We are all well aware of the effectiveness of the National Health Service; we are all proud to represent operators and scientific communities that guarantee exceptional levels of performance, but we must also recognise that, forty years after the formulation of the National Health Service's founding law, we must do a cutting. Minister, I made this observation to you at the famous meeting we were talking about; I have not seen any gestures in this regard. Time is precious and, therefore, we try to fill it by addressing, even starting from this emergent phase, a serious reasoning on the National Health Service. Let's do a cutting off of this universalistic health care that we are all proud of, but must be preserved and preserved. President. - I shall end with a passage in relation to this Europe. I do not believe that we can just continue to share the attitudes of this Europe. It has been said and recognized that in Italy there are more cases simply because we had the courage to search for them, but it cannot become the story that we have sought it. We have identified the cases because for seriousness and correctness we know the need to limit the outbreaks as much as possible. Are other countries doing this? Has anyone questioned in Europe what Switzerland, Spain or Austria are doing to stop our trains? Is anyone questioning and raising the problem of preserving national interest in a Europe that continues to be a stepmother and that obviously continues to deal only with the length of zucchini and not with the real problems of the people who govern? [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Hope for the opportunity he offered Parliament with this information: he did so yesterday in the House and today he is in the Senate. It is not a formal or ritual thanks because it concerns the way in which Minister Hope has moved from the first lines of this emergency, just as it cannot be formal thanks that we have the duty to do as political forces - I say it cross-cuttingly - to all the gears of the complex system called State, starting from the thanks we owe to our national health system. In the last speech I noticed some well-known controversy, but if there is something that the rest of the world must envy this country, beyond the representation that is often given to us, it is precisely the National Public Health System and we have a duty to thank the health workers, nurses, technical administrators and all those who work in hospitals. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and Aut]] Of course, thanks go to the scientific community. I would also like to say that in this passage - Mr President, I say this through you to the Members present in this House - we have the opportunity to leave a season of shamanism behind forever, where everyone was entitled to talk about things that are, on the other hand, matters that only science and scientists should talk about. If this debate comes to light, we may also leave a positive mark on this area. We must thank the Forces of Order, Civil Protection, the entire Government and institutions at all levels, starting from the Regions and the Municipalities, who, net of some tension and friction, even physiological in a moment of tension like what we are experiencing, have demonstrated and are demonstrating to share the same objective. The Government, the Regions and the Municipalities aim to contain the virus at this time and, therefore, to face the emergency health and to do so - this should be the goal of a wider scope - that Italy comes out stronger than it came into this crisis. I say this because - perhaps it is the only point I want to touch - it would be incomprehensible and untranslatable in the eyes of our fellow citizens the idea that we did not face this delicate passage in the sign of an institutional unity, which does not mean asking the political forces to renounce their ideas at this stage and, even, to renounce their own level of criticality and criticism of the Government, if these have a constructive and positive dimension. It means asking the political forces to feel part of the same objective, which is what I referred to earlier, that is to say, to overcome this moment. In fact, I read of the controversy too much, I read a tension that at this moment should not exist and I see in this controversy with the Government by some political forces, the idea of getting into what we could call a nemesis, a paradox, a contrast for this country: the polemics, in fact, are raised in particular by those political forces that theorize the closure of the borders, then sticking our country, because of these same policies, in the condition of being us those that we wait firm in the ports of other countries because other countries do not want us. This negative representation hurts us and our country, and we need to discuss this. I say this with regret: I am a proud citizen of Lombardy and Milan and yesterday the President of my Region made a direct Facebook in which he announced that one of his collaborators was positive for the Coronavirus test. President Attilio Fontana announced at the same time that he would put himself in the car quarantine in his office, however wearing a mask - about wrong signals that we must avoid giving - absolutely incorrect. Now that picture, Mr. President, is going around the world! We must avoid adding harm to other damage! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and Aut (SVP-PATT,UV).]] We need responsibility, we need seriousness, we need a principle that must guide this step that is what Minister Hope emphasized, that is, to rely on science, the competent authorities, those who have put in place the guidelines that citizens must follow with serenity, discipline and a sense of responsibility. In this respect, Mr President, let me say that perhaps we need to think about what regional centralism has become in this long season, since we have twenty broken health systems. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and Aut (SVP-PATT,UV).]] I would add that perhaps we should ask ourselves, in the face of thanks to the National Public Health System, where is the private system at this time? What are you doing to help? [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] Perhaps, then, we come out stronger from this stage if we ask ourselves the right questions, just as is the question that the Government is also trying to answer because it is asking itself: where is Europe? The Minister Hope has meritoriously brought together the Health Ministers of the neighbouring countries, the closest to Italy. But we should ask ourselves where Europe is. If there are solidarity funds, which exist and can be put on the ground for moments like these, that are used, because we have to face a health crisis but also, as was said before, economic ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u12	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u13	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). I conclude by saying this, President: there is a beautiful article that yesterday wrote Gianrico Carofiglio in a national newspaper that said that fear can become a disease. Well, we already have to deal with one disease, we don't get another one because we have a responsibility to defeat fear together. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and Aut (SVP-PATT,UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u14	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for the message of awareness and commitment that you have brought to this House today and that you have already entered the Italian House last night. We all need this message. Italy needs this message, but also Europe and the world, and we unite to convey the sense of security that comes from the conviction that our health and protection system, consisting of doctors, nurses, civil protection, law enforcement, army and voluntary associations, is up to this situation, however much this is unpublished. We are still saying thank you to all of our fellow citizens, because - let me stress this - they give us a sense of what is contained in Article 4 of our Constitution: "Every citizen has the duty to carry out, according to his own possibilities and choice, an activity or a function that contributes to the material or spiritual progress of society." [[Applause from the PD Group]] This conviction must unite us and must allow each of us to transmit a message of unity to the whole country. Because against the coronavirus everyone is at his place of work, the Government, the Minister, the Parliament, the National Health Service, the scientists, the Regions, the Municipalities, all determined to defeat this emergency. We have one voice and we must have one voice to say that no one will be left alone and because we are guided by the scientific institutions of our country that are at our side and by the World Health Organization. And if our thoughts go to the families and those who have been affected by the virus in a lethal way, the increasing number of people who are resigned must give the sense that the coronavirus can be overcome in the vast majority of situations thanks to the care and assistance, that we can already put in place in the dedicated structures, as evidenced by the activity carried out at the Spallanzani Institute. Today, however, the point is above all this: to isolate the virus as much as possible, to contain its spread. Preventing infection as much as possible is the imperative of this phase. The House has already voted the decree-law; here at the Senate we will incardinate it today in the Health Commission, to finally convert it to law in the first days of next week and carry out our task: these are the rules that we consider most appropriate today to prevent the infection and isolate the outbreaks as much as possible. The health ministers of the neighbouring countries have arrived and we have been recognised by them and the European Commissioner has also attested this. But taking up the words of before, in the next few days, starting from the Senate, with one voice we must start turning the attitude of the Italians in order to restore their confidence, first of all to face the inconveniences that will still be there. Words won't be enough to turn the sentiment. Tomorrow the decree-law must be approved in the Council of Ministers that implements the actions that must support the economic system of our country and not only red areas unfortunately, because the attitude that we are recording outside Italy is propagating negative effects that affect the entire system of Italian companies, increasingly internationalized and interconnected. The tourism sector, which is a sensitive indicator, has very worrying signs. Finally, I would like to touch on the subject of Europe, because while Commissioner Gentiloni has given the first important answers in terms of the resources available to combat the negative economic effects, on the other hand in terms of health-related actions, we are faced with strong disparities, very different control standards and generally uncoordinated behaviours. Europe finds itself lagging behind on an important issue such as health security and, in the face of determined and decisive actions such as those of Italy, the lack of precise strategies in other countries makes it difficult to predict developments in the coming days. For some time now I have been questioning myself, in the face of the many contradictions that we are living in our time, if politics still has the possibility to represent a reference linked to the truth of problems or if the policy of slogans has finally had the upper hand in drawing the perceptions on which to gain consensus. In situations such as these, I think that politics must always feed the citizens with genuine awareness, the system of original values, so that citizens can judge the proposals in relation to the reality of the functioning of things, because attempts to subvert it or to bend it to their own conveniences may not withstand the force of events that restore its evidence. I will have to look for new words to try to explain to my children, who are not going to school and ask me questions, because for the first time they live on themselves the idea of something irreparable and I would say almost unnatural for them, as thought until yesterday far and even remote. They will have a world ahead in which to live and face challenges that are probably different from how we can imagine them, but surely this experience will be remembered, evaluated and judged. It is our responsibility to give her a face, which I believe should be that of a cohesive, supportive and capable national and local community. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u16	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies, I would also like to make a few comments, starting from a premise (as my colleagues Mr Collina, Mr Faraone and others have said in their various speeches): Minister Hope, who is a serious and decent person, has all our solidarity and with him the whole Government; in order to eliminate a problem of misunderstandings, the Presidents of the Regions, who are in the front row, starting with President Fontana, to whom the direct Facebook has been reprimanded; But I would also like to look at things on the other side and say what would have happened if he had not done it and his images had been stolen by someone: there would probably have been the same speculation reversed and he would have been charged with explaining what had happened. This is to say that at this time it is extremely difficult, even for politics, to really understand what needs to be done. I would like to say one thing, however, because unity is not rhetoric: if we are here to express only generically unity, we are doing a rhetorical exercise. We do not need a rhetorical exercise today, but a test of truth individually given by each of us. The Minister said that we entrust ourselves to the scientific community: I am with him, however, attention; we entrust ourselves to the scientific community for scientific aspects, because I entrust myself to the political and institutional community for political and institutional ones. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az, PD and IV-PSI.]] Otherwise, at this point it would be enough to put the Higher Institute of Health instead of the Minister and we would have solved the problems, but it does not work that way. This morning, also for the time zone, I was joined by Cambodian colleagues who expressed solidarity with me, explaining that they were desperate for me. Thank you very much, however, even they have some problems: yet, obviously today is passing the idea that Italy has become the fan of the coronavirus along with China. The Minister was very good at explaining that this is not the case and that the problem is the number of controls we have done: all this is important to us, but it becomes almost irrelevant to the external perception that is given to the matter. The effort and the theme of politics is all here, in the dystonia that is being created between a system that we think works better than others, because we do more control and we are probably more accurate, and the negative effects that result in particular on our economy, putting Italy on its knees. This sense of proportion and measure is the sign of politics; here politics is needed. What good is politics for but to establish exactly the meaning of the proportion between scientific concerns and social, political and institutional concerns? That is the policy, ladies and gentlemen. That is the policy, as we have been taught and which we must try to develop in our own dimension. Senator Collina is right: if there were the sovereignism that I like, that is not the national one but the European one, we probably wouldn't be in this condition today, because they would all have done the same method of monitoring [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , and we would find ourselves saying that our data must be relativized with the data of others. But politics is not done with the 'ifs'; let us keep it in mind in the future, when we talk about Europe and necessity, and let us also entrust our destiny to a joint European project. Colleagues, one more thing. The sense of omnipotence that our society brings to each of us is severely endangered by this affair. It is paradoxical, but perhaps this is the only positive side that this story brings us: to make it clear that not everything is in our hands, that there is still something to measure that is stronger than us, and this applies not only to the coronavirus today, but for example to the dramatic environmental problems that are emerging in the Planet, that we see as if they are issues that concern the children of our children, and instead dramatically risk to concern each of us. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az, PD and FdI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u18	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, illustrious members of the Government, listening to the report, the Minister has done well to underline the aspect of closeness to doctors, nurses, civil protection and all those who are working for this emergency. This is mainly because of what has happened and is happening in these hours, which has incredible in a country like Italy, where, instead of seeing all the institutions that give trust to doctors, without if and without but, the prosecutor of Lodi has opened an investigation for procedures against hospitals in Codogno, Casalpusterlengo and Lodi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Mr Minister, perhaps we should also try to make it clear to the President-in-Office that a few less statements would have done better, given what we read in the proper act. I think that doctors and those on the ground need to be trusted from a psychological point of view as well. Certain acts certainly disqualify Italy a little 'in the world context. Another aspect that you highlighted, and which I liked, was the use of the words "unity" and "responsibility". On unity we clearly avoid polemics, even if someone who intervenes says that we must avoid them, but then he does them. And so we should also be a little consistent with what is being done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yes, Minister, the time has come to take responsibility. Unfortunately, in these cases we often see a discharge of responsibilities: we have seen them downloaded on directors, mayors, Presidents of the Regions. I think that this is probably also the child of some of the unholy decisions that this Parliament has taken. In fact, at a time when the public interest and the autonomy of government action are not recognised, as happened a few weeks ago, there is no doubt - as Mr Casini rightly said in his speech - that risks can be taken, such as that of not taking responsibility. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is absolutely not the way forward. Senator Casini said: what happens today, one tomorrow could happen to some other member of the government. I understand that the decree-law that is being passed on is perhaps a little bit of an attempt to go in that direction. I have heard of decentralisation of health, differentiated autonomy and so on: it seems a bit schizophrenic to deal with this issue. In fact, Article 117 (2) (q) - as Tremonti pointed out yesterday evening in a television broadcast - makes the subject of international prophylaxis part of the exclusive competence of the State. Therefore, it is already a competence of the State and the Government. Before discerning differentiated autonomy, regionalism or health, tell the President of the European Parliament Sassoli that we need to study and read our Constitution better. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] And we exercise the functions that the Constitution gives us, because that, from our point of view, is the very important element in the matter of responsibility. As for the decree, you have seen that the House of Deputies has been given immediate availability. Ours is a clearly political signal, because from a technical point of view there would be a lot to discuss and we will probably have a way and time, in the continuation of the parliamentary season, to enter more into the merit of the choices that have been made. Minister, I have also heard today about the subject of Europe, which is absolutely right. However, I would remind you that Senator Cantù and Mr Zoffili have come, by delegation of our Senate and Chamber Leaders, to the meeting you have convened and that it was precisely we who highlighted - on 3 February - the total absence of Europe and the need for a single European policy that would enable that health cord to be created to contain the infection. However, from 3 February to today we have not seen any summits, special speeches or urgent meetings. These meetings are only held when it comes to talking, in secret perhaps, about the European Stability Mechanism or giving numbers to Italy because it is necessary to stay within the limits of the deficit. In these cases, Europe comes in overpoweringly. When it comes to containing immigration and pandemics and facing the real challenges of globalisation, the truth is that Europe is absolutely unable to do so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Minister, go to Europe, beat your fists on the table and demand that there be a single protocol, including intervention. How many controls are carried out in other countries? What systems are used? Now they make us pass through the plagues of Europe and the world, but let us ask ourselves what kind of controls other countries have done. Pretend this information, let's hear it. This is a helpful suggestion that the League gives you at a time like this. With regard to the request for the suspension of the Schengen Convention (I remember that the same Treaty provides for it for reasons of public order, safety, hygiene and health), as an answer there was the classic ridicule against the ugly and bad and racist legitists, who want to close the borders, with references to sovereignism and everything else. Do you know what the effect was? In Europe they say that there is no need to suspend the Schengen Convention: certainly, among other European countries, they did not essentially suspend it only with regard to Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That was the result. Of course we are now isolated in the world, because the others have isolated us. We no longer make choices, daughters of ideology. If advice or suggestions come from the League, Forza Italia, Brothers of Italy and any other members of the minority, consider them in depth. I am thinking, for example, of what is suggested, always on the subject of Europe, in a very calm and always precise and precise way by my colleague, Senator Bagnai, President of the Finance and Treasury Commission. Given that they have made us pass for the plagues of Europe, it would undoubtedly now be appropriate to ask the European Union to apply its rules once and for all, in particular with reference to Article 107 (2) (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, so that they do not come to stress us with the history of State aid. The natural disaster is in fact a very specific cause provided for in the Treaty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us not, as always, be fooled by the great decisions, decisions and impositions of Europe. I should like to conclude by staying on schedule, as it should be, by focusing on the measure which will have to contain the necessary economic measures in view of everything that is going on. It has been remembered very well that the economic aspect is very delicate, as the story is producing really very dramatic situations for many people, especially in the fields of tourism, commerce and crafts. There are many sectors that risk an epochal crisis. We ask the government to hurry: you must take the measure immediately and bring it to Parliament, where you will meet all our willingness. We have also made proposals, to really signal that, when it comes to being united, perhaps the best way to do so is to make serious proposals, as the League has done these days. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u20	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Health, the Ministers, the Undersecretaries and the Deputy Ministers present in this House. Thank you are not just a form, as the request for cooperation is not just a form, Minister. We've been there forever. We were summoned on February 3, we were asked for unity, responsibility, collaboration. But cooperation is not just a word, Minister. You know that we have been there and we have made our proposals, as Mr Romeo and my fellow Group leaders have reminded us before me and who were present. Collaboration cannot be just choreographic or rhetoric, as President Casini would say. If we cooperate, the proposals must be heard and perhaps implemented. You know, Minister Hope, that we value you. We appreciated his willingness and above all his institutional sobriety, his elegance of style in coming to Parliament, which is the only forum of political debate, not jumping into the curtains of the talk shows of the media circus. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We liked that, but, Minister, what we did not like was that our advice was absolutely unheard. I see from the gesture of the head that there is a certain perplexity on his part in receiving what we are telling her. The time is little and unfortunately the things to say are many, but I would like that, as happens between people who have to cooperate, we tell the truth; just as the Government must tell the truth to itself, starting to ask uncomfortable questions, because obviously something, if this is the case and the Italians are terrified (it has become panic what you have managed to transfer to the Italians), did not work. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This is something that you have to tell yourself in order to remedy what has been done in very difficult and complicated days, in which - and we have said this since February 3, witnesses all my fellow group leaders from all the parliamentary groups represented here - the Coronavirus emergency had to go in parallel and at the same time with the consequent inevitable economic emergency that would have scarred the country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Minister, we told you that it was okay to stop direct flights, but if the Chinese who come from Wuhan and Beijing travel through the Beijing-Dubai, Beijing-Berlin, Beijing-Geneva, Beijing-Vienna, Beijing-London routes, as they did, without our control, wouldn't it be better to control them first, so that the epidemic spreads less? The epidemic, Minister, must be defined in its perimeter: it cannot one day be a very dangerous pandemic and the day after it is only a strong influence. We cannot accept that the President-in-Office of the Council, who in two days, between Saturday and Sunday, goes on television 16 times, spreading the feeling that something terrible is happening to the country; we can only expect to hear ourselves define the next day from Europe - because that is the impression we have transferred - a sort of lazzaretto, of anointing shelter, and then say the day after everything is okay. It is precisely this short communicative circuit that has created the problems that we cannot ignore. Mr. Minister, you can't come here and tell us that we don't have to wave flags like everything's okay. Together we must look at the problems in order to solve them. This is called collaboration. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We cannot pretend that nothing is happening and that your practices, as far as we are concerned, are late and problematic in terms of the management of productive groups, families and workers, have been effective and adequate. We must, from now on, reverse the trend and listen more. Minister, we told you to pay attention to Africa, where they live, live and work 6.5 million Chinese, with thousands of Chinese companies and where thousands of Chinese infrastructures are being built, with continuous circulation between Africa and China. Attention then to landings. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups]] Attention to landings, which may be a risk factor. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u22	Please, colleagues, let Senator Bernini continue. Everyone was able to say what he wanted in the silence of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u23	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Colleagues, it is not noise that solves the problems: obviously we have touched a thorny point. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] Above all, colleagues, we join in the deep thanks to those who have dedicated themselves from the beginning to the emergency: doctors, health personnel, hospital staff, voluntary associations, civil protection volunteers, that civil protection that now struggles to work because you have dismantled Centralized Civil Protection, which with Bertolaso was our spearhead. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups]] In the same way we thank the Forces of Order and the Army: we thank everyone and we join with our closeness to those who have been hit by the virus. However, just out of respect for these people, precisely because we recognize the problems by looking at them in the face and precisely because we have provided advice and solutions at a time when, if applied, those councils and solutions could have shown much better than now their effectiveness, we tell you what the topic will be on the agenda from now on, Minister: the economic emergency. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We have tourism, trade and agriculture companies that are panting. They'll find us alive in two weeks, if we still have the lockdown, but they'll be dead, and we can't afford that. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Minister, please. You're the Minister of Health, but you understand how these things go in parallel. [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]] I leave you with the request that entrepreneurs... BITI (PD). Shame on you. You don't know what you're talking about. You're making an absurd terrorism! BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Friends, I understand that these things bother you, but we are in Parliament, where everyone can speak and everyone has the right to be heard. I don't know if who defines himself... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] One more minute, Mr President, and I shall finish. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] BITI (PD). Shame! You don't know what you're talking about. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). But for what? [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u24	Continue, Senator Bernini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u25	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Minister, I renew the request and the invitation that AssoLombarda addressed to all of us, to the entire political class that, in order to be responsible, must face the problems: Make it quick, do more. This is the only way to deal with the coronavirus and economic emergency in our country. We are on this with our proposals, with our seriousness, with our sincerity. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u26	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u27	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my brief speech with a word: calm. I have worked for thirty-three years in the medical emergency area and, when you come to create anxiety and panic, you can no longer reason. I appeal to all political forces: there is absolutely no need to show anxiety and fear. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and go against what can be rational and reasonable in order to be able to intervene properly, in moments such as the actual ones really very delicate. We are faced with a serious health emergency and I want to begin by thanking all health workers, doctors and nurses, who are at the forefront of these hours. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I've been an emergency medical manager for my entire professional life. My thoughts naturally go to my colleagues and to the professionalism and self-denial of all the people who every day guarantee the excellence of the National Health Service. All these workers must be protected and protected with the best means and the right measures. Citizens must be sure that the institutions are at their side in protecting health as a common good. Our health system is among the best in the world and the measures that this Government has put in place have been timely. The number of coronary virus infections that is emerging in the last few hours is linked to the high number of diagnostic tests administered. In fact, we are the European country that has done more tampons, exceeding 9,000. However, I would like to add that all this is done to try to discover all the ways of infection. Let us therefore remain calm and respect, as the Minister said, the directives of scientists, of the governing group of the Ministry and of the World Health Organization. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When it comes to health, the objective should be common, and yet again, we are witnessing superficial and irresponsible political exploitation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the time not to make controversy, but of sharing and responsibility to protect health as the inalienable right of the individual. It is good to remember then that this Government moved with the Farnesina immediately to repatriate our residents in Wuhan. Special thanks go to the Undersecretary Pierpaolo Sileri [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , who went twice to China precisely to assist, as a doctor, our fellow countrymen on the return journey, although aware of the risks they were taking. This, however, is part of being a doctor. Thank you Pierpaolo. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Ministry of Health immediately brought together a 24-hour task force to monitor all developments and plan the necessary surveillance and prevention measures. An interministerial table with Civil Protection has been set up, working tirelessly, monitoring all events and acting promptly. This virus is frightening: yes, it is true, as they put fear all new pathologies without cure, but we must remember that, in the vast majority of cases, it affects in a mild form and only a small percentage of cases requires specialist assistance. At this stage, however, it is important to put in place all the necessary measures to control infection, ranging from often washing hands to preventive quarantine for those who have been in the places of outbreak or have had contact with infected people. Meanwhile, the Government is also studying and adopting measures to support the populations of areas affected by the infection, such as wage integration measures for workers in companies operating on the territory. Now we need the support of all European countries because the crisis does not irreversibly affect the economy of our country. We therefore want to thank the Minister, the Undersecretary, the technicians and all the experts who have been working tirelessly for days to overcome the emergency, guaranteeing them our support. To conclude, I would like to send a message to all citizens, exhibitors, traders and entrepreneurs in distress, and to tell them that we will not leave them absolutely alone. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u28	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Health, whom I thank for his willingness. I suspend the sitting until the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has completed its work. (The sitting was suspended at 10.20 a.m. and resumed at 11.07 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u29	I communicate the results of the meeting of the Board for the Rules of Procedure. During the meeting, it was recalled that at its meeting of 17 January 2020, the proposal to declare that the period referred to in Article 135a (3) of the Rules of Procedure was authorising and not peremptory was rejected. Following a request for clarification made yesterday in the Conference of the Leaders, the Council for the Rules of Procedure considered unanimously that, in the face of exceptional circumstances or of a state of necessity - such as to determine the objective impossibility to participate in the proceedings of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity by one or more members - is justified and legitimate the derogation of the term referred to in Article 135- bis, paragraph 3, only where there is a direct connection with constitutional forecasts and principles, such as desumible, but not exhaustive, by the combined provisions of Articles 16 and 32 of the Constitution. The derogation is legitimate within the time limits strictly related to the recalled exceptional circumstances and it is not otherwise possible to indicate an immediate alternative date for the convocation of the Junta itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-197.ana.u31	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 4 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.10 a.m.
