ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 26 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u3	The next item is: Information by the Minister of Health on initiatives under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to address the epidemiological emergency of the Covid-19. I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups who, with their request for a hearing, give me the opportunity to report to the Chambers on the current emergency. I will focus my information mainly on certain points of greater health importance, obviously considering it an update compared to what the President-in-Office of the Council has already said, which has been here, in this House, over the past week, and at my previous hearing. As I have said on other occasions, I do not consider the parliamentary debate to be a ritual appointment, a formality to be carried out as an office duty. I am here not only to inform Parliament and, through you, the whole country, but also to listen to comments and proposals from all political forces. It is Parliament, in this House and in the competent Commissions, where, in a clear dialectic, we must seek and find the reasons for joint action. A positive and united political climate is the essential precondition for keeping the country united in a very difficult passage of our national history. Everyone, I believe, must feel the utmost responsibility to face and overcome the challenges before us. In the post-war period, never as in these hours, is the time of division. As our President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, once again recalled in recent days, unity and social cohesion are indispensable under these conditions. Thank you, Mr President, for your words, which are a constant stimulus to doing more and more and more better. [[Applause]] A terrible storm is taking place in Europe and in the world. The number of infected by this virus runs fast to the million cases. The economy is holding back, while our cities are almost at a standstill. It seemed impossible, yet in a few weeks our habits and established lifestyles have radically changed. I think each of us will never forget these days. We are in a global crisis, which hits not only the weakest nations, but also the superpowers. After China, the great America, day after day, is in increasing difficulties. In Central Park, New York, a symbolic place, a large field hospital is being set up. Moscow is in total isolation. The whole of Europe is hit hard. Neighboring Spain, within a few weeks, has surpassed our number of contagions in relation to the population. Faced with this reality, old geopolitical disputes appear terribly dated. It is time for international cooperation and solidarity. No one saves himself, because we live in an interdependent world and because, as is clear, the virus knows no national or regional boundaries. As Pope Francis recalled, praying alone in a deserted Saint Peter's Square, we realized that we cannot go on each one on his own, but only together. Yes, together, that is why we need Europe to rapidly change its old and outdated policies. It is now time for Europe to demonstrate that it is a real opportunity, a great force that promotes investment, work, economic growth and the mitigation of social inequalities. No, we cannot allow a serious health crisis to add to an unsustainable and devastating social crisis. In this reality, I strongly feel the responsibility, as Minister of Health, to continue to say clearly and clearly the truth to the country about the health emergency that we are experiencing; with clarity and clarity, because it is not the time of half words. To this end, I would first like to reiterate a concept expressed several times in these hours by our scientific community: be careful not to make mistakes now, beware of easy optimisms, which can frustrate the efforts and great sacrifices that the vast majority of Italians are making. Attention, we must not confuse the first positive signals that we record in these hours with a signal of no alarm. The numbers and statistical projections made by the experts indicate that we are on the right track and that the drastic decisions we have taken are starting to give the first results. Our cure, which is now adopted and followed all over the world, is slowing down the speed and extent of the contagion. However, it would be an unforgivable mistake to exchange this important first result for a final defeat of the Covid-19. The battle is still very long. We cannot and must not lower our guard. Our first objective must be to bring back permanently and clearly below the value of 1 the error with zero (R0), that is the transmission index of the contagion. It is a goal to be achieved not to further multiply the number of positive patients, to decrease the daily number of deaths, to prevent our National Health System from being hit by a further tsunami. There is still a long way to go, because without the vaccine we will never definitively defeat the Covid-19. Not only must we not lower our guard, but we must all be aware that for a short time we will have to be able to manage a transition phase. It will be essential to step up the reduction of current restrictions by taking appropriate and proportionate preventive measures to prevent further serious outbreaks of infection. The phase of coexistence with the virus will have to be managed in agreement with the technical-scientific committee with great caution, continuing to monitor the phenomenon very seriously and preserving all the good individual practices that we have learned to respect in these weeks with our responsible behaviors. Of course, we must plan tomorrow and we are already doing so, but without stopping being aware of what this stage is and where we are exactly today. Wrong timing or anticipating some moves would end up frustrating the work done in these very difficult weeks. This is the only realistic and practicable way to rekindle the engines of our economy, to fully recover the social and affective dimension of our lives, to regain our indispensable freedoms. It is from these evaluations, which I wanted to indicate in the premise of my intervention, daughters of the indications and evaluations of our scientific technical committee, that the decision of the Government to confirm until April 13 all the measures of limitation of economic and social activities and of the individual movements, previously adopted. Before I look at future jobs, I would like briefly to make a few comments on the work we have done so far. I say this with sincerity: I believe that we should all be aware and even proud of the work that we are doing together, in an unprecedented situation and the reaction of the Italians, to face completely new difficulties. I'm talking about Italy and not part of it. I'm talking about all the institutional levels, from the government, to the regions, to our mayors. I'm talking about our doctors, nurses, health professionals and pharmacists, who we'll never thank enough. I am talking about our workers, who in often very difficult conditions are keeping the engine of our country on. I'm talking police. I'm talking about the many forces of volunteering. I am talking about all Italians, who are giving a great test of maturity and collaboration. I'm talking about the solidarity of our people. I want to thank - allow me to do so - and also metaphorically embrace the thousands of doctors and nurses, who responded to the ban on civil protection volunteered to go to work in the areas most affected. [[Applause]] I am thinking, again, of the many associations that assist, under even more difficult conditions, the elderly, the disabled and the sick. This is our Italy, of which we must be proud. We are a great country, which has done serious work, which is constantly recognised by the World Health Organization, with which there is a continuous and fruitful relationship. It would be too long to make a list of the measures we have taken in recent months. I merely recall, in an instant, that our first decisions were taken on 22 January, before, on 30 January, the WHO declared the emergency coronavirus of public health. On 31 January the Council of Ministers declared the state of emergency and entrusted the Head of Civil Protection with the coordination of interventions. We were the first to demand common prevention policies at international level and to denounce the danger of an extension and explosion of the contagion. The first European meeting of Health Ministers on Coronavirus was held, at the formal request of Italy, by me, at the end of January. If on 29 February and then on 1 March, a few days after the outbreak of Codogno, we gave clear indications to the regions and hospitals, starting from the need to double the beds of infectious diseases and pneumology and the increase of 50% of intensive therapies, it is because we had studied and worked with the task force in the previous weeks. On the basis of the indications of the Scientific Technical Committee, we have progressively and promptly adopted measures proportional to the evolution of the contagion, the first of which are jointly signed by myself and the Governors of the Regions, then by means of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM). We have taken further stringent measures with the explosion of the new outbreaks, which are now being replicated in many countries around the world. To make these statements does not mean at all, from my point of view, to accept the difficulties, limitations and problems we have encountered in the management of the emergency. I want to say this clearly: it has been and still is very hard. In an unprecedented storm, against an enemy not only invisible, but also very strong and unknown, we are facing unprecedented challenges very difficult. Our National Health Service has been put in the last few weeks to a very hard test. In spite of the quantitative differences of the phenomenon that have been found in the different territories, everywhere, in every Region of Italy, there has been an abnormal wave of very difficult management. The answer has been, in the absolute difficulty of a situation outside of any ordinaryity, but the answer has been and is still in progress. In the field of supplies our men have fought a very difficult battle with an already saturated market since the end of 2019. If we add to this difficulty the combined arrangement of protectionist measures taken by several nations and the lack of an Italian industrial production is easy to understand the reasons for the complexity of the situation. To manage this phase it is essential that everyone supports the very difficult work that civil protection is doing, with Angelo Borrelli and the extraordinary commissioner for the emergency Domenico Arcuri. I thank you both very much. These are two experienced men who are gradually overcoming the initial difficulties. As far as protective equipment is concerned, the Commissioner announced that important supply contracts have been concluded: about 300 million masks with China and other countries around the world, also thanks to the work of Farnesina. These supplies allow us to protect first of all the health care staff, which is our first and most important priority. For this same reason, their state of health should be monitored, including through the intelligent and constant use of swabs. Then, in Italy, a production of masks has started that will finally allow us in a reasonable time to have a national supply chain that aims to guarantee supplies that make our country self-sufficient. In recent days, the way in which the material is distributed has changed, which today, for long journeys, is carried out by means of the rapid means of defence and for this reason the Ministry of Defence must also be thanked for the valuable work carried out. A portal with all online information on the distribution of material is available on the Civil Protection website. The data, however, that testify more clearly to the ability to react of our National Health Service, are those that concern the beds necessary to face the Covid 2019. To date, the beds in the intensive care are 9.081 with an increase in less than a month of over 75 percent compared to the pre-Covid equipment that we realized in years of purchases and subsequent implementations and that was 5,395 beds. The beds needed to handle the Covid emergency were tripled. The beds, for example, of infectious diseases and pneumology were 6.525 before the emergency and today there are 26.424, plus 405 percent. Also on the health personnel, the Regions have widely used all the rules promptly approved by the Government to favor new hirings, surpassing the ordinary roofs that we now carry since 2004. To date, some 12,000 new contracts relating to health workers have already been signed and a number of further procedures are under way. From a health point of view, it is essential to harmonize more and more the management of patients affected by the virus, building on the experience gained in recent weeks. In recent days, after a fruitful comparison with the Regions, we have updated the lines of organization of hospital and territorial services in the course of emergency Covid-19, emphasizing in particular some requirements: increase the structures dedicated exclusively to the Covid-19 (the so-called Covid hospital); keep routes and management rigidly separate, where it is not possible to identify structures exclusively dedicated to the Covid; reprogramming on the basis of the necessities the hospital structures not used in the Covid network nor in the emergency non-Covid; identify all the possible public and private hospital structures, equipped with departments or areas with oxygen supply system, compressed and empty air, or implementable in this sense; implement 112 and 118, freeing them from any purely informative call; provide in all emergency specific pre-triage routes to promptly identify patients suspect positive to the Covid-19; define agreements with bodies and voluntary associations for a greater contribution of the means attached to the emergencies; still, reorganise the territorial network for taking charge of the patients Coviding, in a particularly careful way in the monitoring of the health situation, as well as if necessary. In the phase that will arrive - that is not today, but soon will arrive for our country - that of the gradual and prudent exit from the total closure, to which already today our scientists, our operators and our technicians are working, we will have to value what we have learned so far on the field. I think of the importance of local medicine as a key to dealing with the emergency. I think of the need to promote innovative technological solutions with contact tracing and for teleassistance for domestic patients, both for the diseases related to Covid-19, and for other pathologies also of chronic character. I think, again, of the need to maximise and speed up the diagnostic capabilities of the tests on the market, from the classic ones, which allow the identification of viral RNA, to the serological ones, which can provide useful information about the so-called rate of mutagenicity, i.e. the percentage of subjects who have encountered the virus and compared to it have produced an antibody response. The definition of the rate of sincerity could be a great deal for future implications in terms of policies for the gradual loosening of social tightening measures which could be considered. In our battle to defeat this virus, scientific research will be decisive to identify effective drugs in the care of Covid-19 and above all to determine and develop an appropriate vaccine. It will be the vaccine, as I have already said, the weapon that will allow us to finally defeat the Covid-19. In this world game Italy is, with our entire scientific community, in a relationship of full collaboration with pharmaceutical companies; we are already doing so, in agreement with the Italian Drug Agency (Aifa) with great determination. The Aifa has organized itself to cope effectively with the health emergency that we are experiencing; it has been activated promptly on four distinct levels. The first is the promotion of clinical studies: the authorisation of experimental, observational and compassionate use programmes has been simplified. The new provisions provide that the Technical and Scientific Commission of Aifa, meeting permanently, will approve all the study protocols, which will then be evaluated by a single ethics committee at national level at the Lazaro Spallanzani Institute. These extraordinary measures aim to ensure the rapid start of studies in order to quickly identify effective treatment options. The centralised and coordinated evaluation ensures scientific quality and greater representativeness, useful for providing valid responses for all patients and National Health Service. The second level is the off-label use of drugs. Following the favourable opinion of the Technical and Scientific Commission of Aifa, the list of medicines that can be used outside the therapeutic indications charged by the National Health Service for the treatment of SARS-Cov-2 infection was adopted. The third level is the fight against drug shortages. In order to cope with increased demand for certain categories of medicines, Aifa has planned to centralise reports of potential deficiencies and strengthen import programmes. The specific interventions put in place are the granting of authorization for the import and activation of a permanent table of confrontation with Farmindustria and Assogenerici. The fourth level, no less relevant, is information on drugs, which must always be based on the best scientific evidence available. The absence of established treatments and the speed of new knowledge on the coronavirus epidemic have made it necessary to strengthen the role of Aifa in information on medicines dedicated to operators and citizens. The portal of the Aifa has been equipped with an Emergency Covid-19 section, within which you have access to all the activities that the Agency conducts on the topic. Such sensitive issues must be addressed by having full confidence in our scientists and strictly respecting the autonomy of their work and the scientific institutions responsible for the evaluation and certification of therapies and medicines. With the same clarity I want to say that we will have the maximum vigilance to avoid any form of speculation against the sick and we will make every effort to give proper information to citizens to counter information without scientific evidence and dangerous self-care. In conclusion - allow me - our thinking and our action must be directed simultaneously, with all the energy possible, also to the other sick. We have been forced, in these weeks, to concentrate a very large part of our human and instrumental resources in the fight against coronavirus and, alas, it will be so still in time, within the emergency in which we are fully. Chronic patients, cancers, those of every other disease - I am thinking of rare diseases for example - deserve the utmost attention and we will have to build specific policies on them, especially for the next phase. Even from this dramatic emergency it is very clear how fundamental it is to return to develop in parallel with hospitals, which are and remain essential, the network of territorial services, all prevention services and a renewed integration between health policies and social policies. We need to get out of this crisis stronger than we've gotten into it. We are in the midst of a very hard, dramatic experience that will surely mark our country and I would say the whole world, a collective experience, but also the sum of a huge multitude of individual experiences, each indelible, that will mark each of us. We will have time and opportunity to evaluate every act and every consequence. One thing, however, I believe is clear to everyone: the Universal Health Service, built in our country after the approval of Law No. 833 of 1978, inspired by the indelible principles of Article 32 of our Constitution, is the most valuable asset there can be. We must invest in it with all the strength we have. (Appalusi). And the thing that really matters the most, the real way to honor those who have lost their lives working in health care is precisely this: to assume as the main theme of the national restart the strategic investment on health. I am convinced that the whole of Parliament, without distinction, will be able to live up to this challenge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Health. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u6	Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days a non-Italian colleague has used a metaphor that I find very convincing: it is as if we were forced to run in the dark, it is pitch dark but we must still run and then we run with our hands ahead, trying to avoid the most painful and most dangerous edges or to end up directly against a wall. So the fact that we are proceeding around the world, however, is due to the lack of mathematical certainty even among the scientific community, I believe. We therefore proceed, from time to time and with our hands ahead, to correct the dangers. Obviously, as always, polemics of various kinds can arise; some I think are frankly instrumental; others can also be prompted by the will to cooperate and cooperate in this situation that involves everyone. Mr President, I have little time, and I will therefore not repeat the list of thanks you have made and which I agree with, but I must confess that I have been particularly impressed, among others, by a proposal signed by 290 professionals in the sector (scientists and doctors) and, therefore, not by the first to pass. It was advanced by Professor Ruggero De Maria of the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart. In order not to waste time, I would ask the Presidency for permission to hand over the proposal which consists of a simple thing, namely, testing with swabs all the asymptomatic people who work to make our lives possible. I am referring to bakeries, supermarket clerks, police forces and those who work in the third sector. They, being asymptomatic, just because they do not know, can without their knowledge and without wanting to spread the contagion. I was struck by the size of the signatories, their experience and the reasonableness of the proposal and, therefore, I highlight it. I am not an expert; nor do I want to make a caricature of it, but I believe that the proposal is worthy of attention. We really try to move on without controversy. I would therefore ask the Presidency to allow the proposal to be annexed. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u7	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the information on the state of the Coronavirus epidemic in our country. Minister, the data you have given us are strengthening the light of hope in a very prudent way. They are the evolution of a health framework that has developed since the end of February. I honestly believe that none of us - not even the medical community - would have thought of such a severe relapse on our country. Just think of one fact about everyone: we have far exceeded 12,000 deaths and our Group is also close to the many families affected. We must admit that this health event has devastated the whole world for the speed of its spread and its violence, so much so that we have had a clear scientific picture only at a pandemic and, therefore, only then has it been possible to give an adequate health response. Signs of new forms of aggressive and harmful epidemics for man we have had in the past twenty years: SARS, always supported by coronavirus, epidemics by ebola virus and about ten years ago the H1N1, which in fact represented the first great pandemic of the third millennium. What we are experiencing is an epidemic that comes from a new strain of coronavirus (Covid-19) and that is representing the second great pandemic of the century, which is manifesting in a particularly aggressive way not only on the health front, but also for the devastating social and economic relapses. The management of this epidemic has been very demanding from the very beginning precisely because of the disturbing attitude of this virus. For our country and for the whole world the initial difficulty was evident in the face of such an unexpected event. The answers came as the epidemic developed and took on the contours of an unprecedented challenge for the entire health sector, called to put in place all the energies it had available. The policy, Minister, has succeeded, in my opinion, in filling the initial delays, creating from us an organizational model that is gradually consolidating. An Italian model, which is not the only one; the important thing, however, is to believe in a certain type of organization and go all the way, with rigour and professionalism. I think that the answers have arrived, with the taking charge of more than one hundred thousand people since the beginning of the epidemic and with the insertion of thousands of serious cases in our hospital structures, which have in fact upset the traditional organization of the departments, creating huge departments dedicated to positive Covid patients and expanding, significantly, the capacities of the resuscitation departments. Perhaps this emergency has in fact forced hospital health care to speed up a new type of organization of departments, no longer designed for pathologies, but for separate departments due to the intensity of care and the complexity of care. In my opinion, territorial health, which you, Minister, have mentioned as fundamental - and I am pleased - is beginning to respond effectively in an even more difficult area such as the extra-hospital one. In the eyes of the public, never as today does the health service and research appear as founding elements of a civil and modern country. I would like to mention, in particular, the nursing staff for the enormous amount of work they are doing; the OSS staff, who work in the structures of territorial admissions; the RSA and micro-community; and, of course, the general medical doctors, who always represent an important point of reference for citizens. Yeah, family medicine. Family medicine could be even better valued and I hope that, after this emergency, there will be serious reasoning about the role and future of this profession. I also want to thank the organizations of the USCA, the special units of care continuity, which involve, besides own doctors, doctors young doctors in training and doctors volunteers, and which, together with nurses, have the important task of following the patients Covid positive on the territory and represent, basically, the novelty of this organization. All this complex system of taking charge of health care is an effective response, against data still very worrying. Today we are gathering, with careful emotion, around the families of the victims. It is true that there have been delays in the delivery of medicines, in the supply of swabs, masks and other difficulties in the provision of information on the correct operational scientific protocol. In my opinion, however, the epidemic has reached such an extent that it puts any health system in crisis. This tremendous experience we are experiencing must, however, serve to reform and adjust our social and health system. I am thinking, for example, of the standards of structures for the elderly and the disabled, the RSAs, micro-community, which have represented - alas - the place par excellence of development of viral transmission of the epidemic. Well, these standards will have to be revised, by introducing, for example, the division of structures into smaller modules, which can be isolated and activated as soon as there is news of an epidemic in progress. The development and consecration of telemedicine, which the Minister has mentioned, will be increasingly strategic in order to manage territorial health in a more effective and functional way compared to difficult realities, such as those of mountain territories. Without forgetting the fight against fake news about science and medicine, which demonstrate all their social danger and must continue to be fought even after the end of this emergency. These are some thoughts and suggestions that, on behalf of the Group for Autonomies, I wanted to share with you. Before I finish, I would like once again to renew a great thank you to all the health workers, to all the operators in the sector. We must promise that their strategic and important roles will be respected and valued in the future. In the immediate future, however, we should ensure fair economic recognition for the enormous work they are doing. A thank you to the world of research: it is today the discovery of Italian researchers on an alternative way of penetration of the virus into the cell. I extend my thanks also to the Civil Protection, the Forces of Order and the whole world of volunteering and the third sector, as well as to all the workers who allow our families to have the essential goods at home. It is precisely to the Italian families - especially those of my territory, the Valle d'Aosta - that goes my dearest and warmest greeting, a message of hope for tomorrow, but it is important not to lower the guard. I should like to end by thanking you, Minister, for your serious, concrete and sobrietyful commitment. I agree with you on the need not to interrupt for now the initiatives to block the chain of contagion. Of course, thanks go to all the administrators of the territory, from the Presidents of the Region to the mayors, for the strategic role they demonstrate every day. I'd like to make a final remark. Unfortunately, this coronavirus epidemic will not be the last and there may be other times like this in the future, so we need to take advantage of this experience and be prepared. I am referring in particular to primary prevention policies: I am thinking first of all of the convinced consolidation of vaccination practices, which represent the real bulwark against these great viral epidemics, then finally the launch of a real primary prevention policy among the whole population; still of the promotion of healthy lifestyles and a correct diet, the practice of exercise and sport, which are necessary conditions for the development of a strong and healthy population, which would thus also be endowed with a powerful immune system and ready to the most difficult trusts. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u10	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in recent weeks will enter history books. We call things by their name: we are in the presence of a pandemic, of course, but also of an ecatombe that in Italy assumes contours difficult to understand in its quantity. There are 12,000 dead and the really hard thing to accept for all of us that we have someone who has passed us is the idea that the person dies without being able to give his hand to one's neighbor, without being able to cross with the eyes of a loved one, even if the nurses and doctors did this too; they made phone calls at home and sent messages WhatsApp; our nurses and our doctors did huge things. However, dying in this way is even more dramatic; everyone dies alone, but dying without people at their side is even more difficult. In this drama we need to ask ourselves questions. You, Minister, have carried out a very serious report, but we must ask ourselves questions, from the small one, that is, how the family doctor works, to the great one, that is, how geopolitical balances will be. The Minister is right when he says that it makes an impression to see Central Park become a field hospital, like that ship, which will host the Coronavirus patients, who passes to New York next to the Statue of Liberty; like the president of the great power Xi Jinping who comes with the mask to Wuhan, like that old white dress that alone gives a message of power and greatness, but also of humility and beauty, in the empty St. Peter's Square. These images will remain in our hearts. But we have questions. The Minister did this very well when he tried to address the issues that medicine will face for tomorrow. I think we need to ask ourselves some questions about the past. The Minister has obviously defended the work of the structure, and it could not be otherwise. However, I think that this Parliament must have an opportunity to reflect on what did not work, from masks to swabs, because if we do not make a parliamentary committee of inquiry when there are 12,000 deaths then it is no longer done. [[Comments]] At the same time there is a need for a sense to be given and I want to say to you, Minister, that we should learn - you said it very well, giving your thoughts to this House - to stress how Italians (yes, Italians), even before the Italian system, were a model for the way they responded to the measures of closure at home. The Italians were good: a model in the way doctors and nurses fought in the front line; a model in the way in which Italian medicine and the system of the National Health Service represent a reference point in the world. On these issues I am absolutely convinced that the coming months will say a lot about the greatness that Italy has put on the field. However, I think we need to think again. How do we prepare young doctors for the future? We should discuss this, because the quality of our doctors is out of the question, but it will probably be ripe, at the end of the emergency, the time for a reflection on the methods of selection. We should think again about how pharmaceuticals help development: Italy is a country that has some of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world and for years we said that they were ugly and bad, that they were Big Pharma, that they were powerful and to be ignored. We have all made a bet on the generic drug, when actually the victory against this terrible virus, as the Minister explained, will come from the vaccine, that is research, from investments in this sector. In this perspective, the Human Technopole project in Milan, which has been somewhat stranded, how can it try to give a future, in the next twenty, thirty, forty years, in the relationship between the lengthening of the average age of life and at the same time the quality of life? These are all very important issues. We will also have to change the relationship between the state and the regions. I smile to the Minister, because that battle has seen us in different positions, but there is no doubt that he will return to the theme of the state's supremacy clause on the Regions. It is not imaginable that this morning regional representatives of all political colors contest a decision of the Minister; or rather, it is imaginable because they can do it, because it is not clear whether the councilman's order or the Minister's circular prevails. Can we or can we not say that, regardless of the opinion of merit, it will take an element of clarity to be able to determine whether it should decide the Region or the Central State? On these issues, Minister, we will have to return. However, I leave a few points to his reflection: first, if it is true that we have returned value to competence. Finally on vaccines you listen to doctors and not to sorcerers apprentices. Finally on the technique you listen to the doctors and not the aspiring nurses. However, one issue needs to be raised: how to manage the emergency cannot be entrusted only to a virology. The virologist must hunt the virus, he must fight the virus, but against unemployment he must think about politics. Since I want to be very clear on the subject of reopening, which must be gradual and prudent - there is no doubt - but it must be a strategic reopening, in order not to make mistakes of delay, that in other areas there have been, Minister I urge you not to make the same mistake that we made a few years ago, when we gave technicians the task of deciding on politics. Complicated points need to be addressed. Those who ask you to think about reopening are not underestimating the Covid-19; paradoxically they are thinking that the Covid will be an emergency for many years. Attention, this is a point on which we must be clear, Mr President, Minister. Whoever tells you that we have to think about restarting is not underestimating the health emergency, but is saying that, for a period of time - hopefully as short as possible - we will have to live with the emergency. Of course, we can't live with it by being locked in the house. We must, then, find technical solutions that allow us - I use the Minister's words - to take advantage of the good personal practices that have been widely followed by Italians, but at the same time do not rely on a future in which there is only welfare, in which the public debt reaches 200 per cent and we think we can move forward only with state subsidies. This is not the theme of those who underestimate the emergency, but it is the theme of those who ask to keep together the principles set out in Articles 32 and 41 of the Constitution with the sacred principles that the health emergency is putting into play. Minister, that is the point to which we wish to refer you. She said we'll be closed until Pasquetta. Well, we respect your decisions and those of the government. I invite you to reflect only tomorrow, April 2, World Day of the Awareness of Autism: there are 600,000 Italians who suffer from what is called autism, a pathology much more complex than a simple definition. There are 600,000 Italians, especially children and young people, who cannot be locked in the house. People who have autistic spectrum disorders need spaces of freedom. You decided to come to April 13th, but you know that some of us were asking for more speed. We obviously respect your decision, like all Italians, and we will help, like all Italians, in the decisions that the Government has made. But you, tomorrow, consider whether it is not worth signing an order that allows people with disabilities and people with autistic spectrum disorders to go out, at least for a period of time. Minister, in trying to make a positive contribution, we ask you: in the next few hours and in the next few days we try to understand what happened in Bergamo. You see, today we have had an incredible series of good news: Lombardy has opened in record times a beautiful structure at the Fair, in Lazio were realized wonderful initiatives at the Biomedical Campus and in many other places. In Bergamo, the Alpines built a hospital at the same time employed by the workers of Wuhan; I mean it, because I am tired of hearing that only others are good. I would like our greatest embrace to come to the Bergamo Alps and the Bergamo community for what they have done. [[Applause]] But it cannot work, Minister, that we have in Bergamo - it is news today, the mayor has said it several times - 2,000 official deaths (the press says they are at least twice in the Province), while in Germany there are 700 deaths. We need to clarify what happened. And in doing so - I have finished, Minister - we assure you of all our commitment and all our support, even in the battles to assert a new model of Europe. A model, to say it with a synthesis, that has a little more than Albania, a candidate country, and a little less than Hungary, a country that is denying democracy within its own borders. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S and PD]] But let us tell you, Minister, not to underestimate the need to return to a normality that will be a new normality. Today the Minister gave us a great lesson in history, when he recalled the founding law of the National Health Service. That law bears the signature of a Minister, of the first Minister of this country, that is, of the first woman who became Minister; her name was Tina Anselmi, an extraordinary figure as a constituent mother and mother of the Homeland. Well, Tina Anselmi has said a sentence several times, under more complicated circumstances for the country's life: democracy needs normality. Those who today ask you to return to think of a new normality for the two years do not only because they know that the health disease could follow an occupational carnage in the coming months; they do it also because they think that in the management of the emergency the Italians give the best, but knowing how to manage and return to the ordinary, to a new ordinary and to a new normality, is first and foremost a cardinal principle of our democracy. Let's follow Tina Anselmi. Let's get back to normal. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u12	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, I have always thought - and we have also discussed this in the course of your previous information - that one of the mistakes that policy has made since the beginning has been to confuse the two plans of this emergency, the health and the economic one. This confusion of plans has occurred not only in the immediacy of the measures to be taken (the delay in the immediacy of the measures to be taken), but also in the confusion of roles between the representatives of the government: those who had to deal with the economy too often have dealt with health and probably those who had to deal with health care have left others speaking, as I sometimes felt you did, Minister. From that time on, I recommended a great protagonism, because I was quite clear at that time that this danger existed. Not that we miss the importance of talking about the post-health emergency, but we must not miss the need not to confuse the two floors. Today, the health emergency needs to be addressed and the basis and conditions for moving to the post-health emergency must be established. I think, as you probably do, that the ideals are more important than mere ideas. I believe that a primacy of politics should be reaffirmed here too. Policy must now be able to decide what the priorities are, how to counter them and how to act and give direction. I am going immediately for an example, because the time available to me does not allow me to go too far: I am referring to all the arguments made, which today seem to be more shared, about the circumstance that we have attacked - or rather treated, which is perhaps the best word - the tip of the iceberg of this health emergency, i.e. the symptomatics, that is, who was ill. It was natural that we should take care, especially in the first few lines, of those who were ill, but today it is clear that this virus is characterized by a hidden iceberg, which is represented by those who are not sick, but have the virus on them, that is, the so-called asymptomatic ones. Minister, with regard to this we must act immediately for a deep mapping of our community, of the Italian population. This deep mapping, this punctual and precise monitoring, must be done with two or three million rapid and immediate tests. They can be serological or molecular tests, that is those of RNA, provided they are rapid and give the possibility, for example the operators, to determine who they are in front of, and the same to the operators of 118, when they load a patient: you know very well what the problem of pre-triage is. Today it is necessary to make available a very large amount of rapid serological tests, which read the presence of an antibody response in those who have been attacked by the pathogen. This will serve us today, in the immediate future, and it would have served us even yesterday, in the emerging phase, because it would have allowed us to keep in isolation people who, not knowing that they were infected, in turn constituted perfect anointers. We didn't, we didn't get it, and there was probably no suggestion. Even today, paradoxically, a part of the scientific community is holding back doubts and frills, but politics must go further, it must be able to loosen the knots and it must decide where to aim. We must start this operation immediately, because we will need it: we need it today, but we will need it especially tomorrow, when we have to go gradually to the reopenings, which the Minister correctly spoke of. Minister, I proposed an amendment and the Brothers of Italy Group of the Senate signed it, in order to make available to the regions a reasonable additional amount - we spoke of EUR 250 million - to buy these tests. We need to give immediate impetus to this profound mapping of our community, our society and the Italian population. We assume that this may be the round of buoys, the moment when the platform, where the curve is installed at the moment, can begin to descend. Minister, in the so-called plateau there are two hypotheses: one that it resumes to grow and the other that it begins to fall. It will begin to fall when we have unequivocally understood who has the virus on and who has not and who has had it and today it can be the first piece of that immunity of flock, of which much is talked about, but about which probably little is really beginning to be planned. Those who have had the virus, will have had an adequate immune response and will have overcome it will be the militants of the restart. On them you will have to aim to restart all public offices, all commercial activities and especially our health facility in hospitals and the medicine of the territory that, I agree with you, is the one that will have to be in the foreground for sanitation. A fundamental aspect, Minister, is sanitation: we must immediately begin to design the hygiene of the spaces. We know that there are various techniques, so here too we must give an address, the scientific community must choose and deal with the topics by virtue of the political guidelines. I shall conclude by referring to the closure of your speech, namely the great appreciation for this huge world which is our National Health Service. Last year we celebrated the forty years of this Italian wealth. If we really want to preserve it, we must understand that the system of rules on which it is based must be made a deep cutting. It is quite clear that it is vital for us to preserve the National Health Service, with all that it entails, but it is equally clear that we must seriously address its obvious shortcomings and problems. We cannot continue to hide from the evidence, for example, that in the South we live five years less than in the North, or in front of a thousand other evidences. In order to do this, we will probably also need a Commission. I have listened to Senator Renzi's words and I sincerely do not believe that a Commission is needed on what has happened in particular on Covid-19. I believe that, on the other hand, we need a Commission on the failing regions - and we have also made some proposals in this regard - because it is now 60 to 70% of the population. How can we deny that there are important pieces of Italy that have been commissioners for more than ten years? How do we deny this evidence? Faced with this, yes, we are preparing a valid tool to investigate the necessary by cutting, forty years after the founding law, to do the system of rules that oversees the National Health Service also re-addressing the issue of regionalization. I agree that this issue has probably been dealt with in too much haste, but not only that, because we remember all the paths of the modification of Title V. The National Health Service should also be cut by providing for new weights in the distribution of competences between the regions and the state. We're ready to do it. It is important that, from here on, the words follow the facts, Minister. We start immediately from what has been said and we face with the right spirit the emergency and this is a great challenge for our country, aware that from it must start a new season. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u14	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we, like the other Members, join in mourning for too many victims. We send a hug to operators, doctors, health workers, who remember little, nurses and all those who work, from law enforcement to civil protection. I also thank you, Minister, for your timely communication and especially for the work you are doing in an unprecedented and extraordinary situation, as well as for your sobriety, which never hurts. Thank you for the conviction with which you are supporting this difficult phase, also in relation to the issue that was raised in this debate by Senator Renzi. Yes, we must live together - I said so myself in the first discussion we had - with the virus. Yes, we must review the relationship between science and politics, which is objectively in tension in Italy as well as throughout the world. But we cannot take rash action; we cannot risk questioning the results, albeit critical, that we have achieved so far. So - this, Minister, is what I would like to stress - we need a strategy. It is time to come up with the idea of the emergency and the pursuit of the emergency, which is inevitable, with a vision for this country that can deal with all the security that we have to guarantee. Even economic recovery, as we have already said, can only be linked to the management and governance of the health emergency. Otherwise, we'd be short-circuiting. We need a strategy and we need to work on it; we need to work on it a lot and quickly. Let me just say one word about our debate. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that, with a minimum of intellectual honesty, each of us can recognize that no one could be prepared for what happened. The demonstration is simple: just look who told us that we had to open everything, then close everything, then reopen, then close again, in the course of maybe thirty-six hours. We weren't prepared, and that's where we have to leave. We will have the opportunity to reflect, to understand, because there is still so much to understand, to reason on the choices made and also on the mistakes made. I do not believe, frankly, that the appropriate instrument is a Commission of Inquiry. I believe that it is necessary, at some point, to build a confrontation between us in these classrooms and in the country in order to make some progress. This emergency will change the world; it will change, I hope, the model of development; it will certainly change and it will have to change the national health system. It will have to change significantly the relationship between science and politics, the strategic theme of scientific research, the universal value of having protected chains in our country. Let us be clear, Minister: we do not have the necessary and useful medical devices; it is not that we can follow this figure, but no one here can throw the first stone. By choosing a market road, we dismantled a production system. Then perhaps we should think about the new relationship between the market, value and national function of public interest of some strategic elements to work. Of course, if there are things that do not work in the devices that we have put in place to do and produce, there is no need to discuss, there is no need for the clash between Commissioner Arcuri and President Fontana. Is there anything wrong with self-certification? Let's change it. But we all agree here that we have to ensure that we don't give a rag to put in front of our operators' faces, don't we? Yeah, so let's find the quickest form to make sure the masks come in. Then there are other issues. Well, we finally realized that the National Health Service, its universal value, is an invaluable asset. No more accountants, no more cuts, no more the idea that the universal national health system is not sustainable. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Do you remember those words? Stop. We understand that this comes first. And then, Minister, we must reunite the emergency with innovation throughout the territory. If there are different data in the national territory it is also because there is a territorial assistance. The doctors of general medicine have a fundamental role, we need guidelines. Let's light more and better the spotlight on the RSA and the nursing homes, relaunch homelessness, today, to strategically defeat the virus: all these things are the future of the National Health System. We must also, allow me, protect our operators. Several groups, including my group, have tabled an amendment to protect our operators, because there are already those who, with so-called defensive health, are creating an unsustainable situation for our operators. We must refinance the doctors, the nurses, the socio-health workers, what is in the first decree is not enough. We recognize what they deserve and what we owe them: salaries, overtime, a training strategy. You rightly mentioned 1978. We need to change the system, because chronicity has changed the health system, because the demographic element requires us to change, because this emergency will create another emergency: all planned health - oncology, chronic health care, those who needed intervention - has been postponed. We therefore need an extraordinary plan: bridge, emergency, new health system and there we will discuss the regions and the regions. This is not the time for controversy and I have appreciated, Minister, your seriousness and your rigour on this point as well. Tomorrow we will discuss this, but one thing we must not change: the values of the National Health System, its universality. No one must be forced to pay an appropriate treatment that must be guaranteed by general taxation. Those who make solidarity know that there are no crocodile tears, we must re-launch, put back at the centre, in order to do this, also fiscal fidelity, a central theme also in this debate. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u16	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u17	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course say a lot of things that have already been discussed, because it is part of this debate, but I start with one that I believe every time it is said is never enough: the desire to express, on our part too, solidarity and condolences for all the victims of this terrible new war and for their families. Minister, I would also like to express my solidarity and thanks to you, Deputy Minister Sileri and Secretary Zampa for the valuable, silent and important work you have done. I believe that at times like these we often find ourselves remembering only the things that are not going and, instead, I think it is right to appreciate also the style with which you moved and the tireless work you have carried out. Sincere thanks also go to those who, working, allow us to move forward. I think, in particular, of course, of doctors, nurses, health workers all, but also of all the workers who are at work every day to guarantee us the safety and goods needed to live. We're living a tough time. None of us - it has already been said - would have expected this in this form and in this dimension and I believe, therefore, that it would be wrong today to think, for each of us, of being able to have recipes in our pockets or of being able to say "I said it," since we have all changed our minds in this terrible phase. Whoever attacks the government, who acted suddenly, as you reminded us very well this morning, was the first, a month ago, to say that there was an excessive dramatization and to criticize the closures, except then, a few days later, to say that it had been closed too little. I believe that graduality has been very correct; I think it has been correct to rely on scientists and those who study these phenomena. It is also clear, as was pointed out, that the decisions are of course the responsibility of the policy, which must take them on these issues with full knowledge of the facts. The measures are bearing fruit today, but we do not think that we can lower our guard. We still need rigour and attention; we still need the provision of personal protective equipment for health workers, workers and citizens; we still need careful monitoring of intensive care facilities, machinery and tools; we need to continue to make swabs as much as possible. It can be seen that in the regions where more has been done, in proportion, things are going better and you can act better on the asymptomatic ones, isolating them. Let's do it to all health care professionals. It's important. Let's make them to workers who have more contact with people, such as law enforcement and those who work in supermarkets. Let's get them to the onset of the first symptoms. I know this is difficult; I know that an effort is being made to increase, but I think it is the right direction. A thank you goes to the Italian citizens, who in a very large part have behaved with discipline, understanding the difficult moment and following the rules for themselves and for the whole of our community. I thank the countries that helped us. I am thinking, in particular, of the Albanian Prime Minister, who moved us by saying something that may seem obvious, giving us a generous hand and reminding us that no one can do it alone. Let it remain as a teaching when this terrible moment is passed, because, as Senator Errani also reminded us, there is a present moment and there is a later one; there is a present and there is a future. No people, however, can do it alone. Without solidarity between citizens and peoples, we are not going anywhere. I thank the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella who, with his greatness as a man of state and his simplicity and humanity, guides us in an authoritative and reassuring way. I thank Pope Francis that, with his usual sobriety, he reminded us that we are all on the same boat and we must all row together. Mr Minister, when it is over, because it will end and our people will come out, in our opinion, we must remember three things. The first has already been mentioned by many and I want to emphasise it strongly: more and better must be invested in public health. On everything you can cut, but not on health and in any case not on universalistic goods as guaranteed by our Constitution. Even on the organizational level, we should probably rethink some things done over time. We should rethink them, in light of the times that have changed. We should rethink them because, of course, this system is not working anymore. Well the reorganization and the reduction of waste, but when the reorganization leads to reduce to the bone beds, doctors, drugs, something does not work. We have to work on the organizational model, because if the care of care in hospitals has not gone hand in hand with an investment in the territory, if our population ages and, therefore, the majority of people have chronic diseases, if there is also an economic crisis in all this and, therefore, less resources and less people who give money to the state, it is clear that a deep political reflection is needed. We must, of course, as you said and I agree, invest more in research. The second thing is to rethink Title V. We had already tried, in a complex and comprehensive reform. Also in this context, but we already knew, we have noticed how the excessive differentiation of the regions, in treatments, service and organization from the point of view of health, is, in stages like this, an additional problem that we cannot afford. We want a health care that gives the same services to all Italian citizens, in a homogeneous way, we want, in delicate moments, there to be a right to care that applies to everyone. The third thing, which is important for this Group and we have often worked hard to underline, is to increase the specialization grants for our medical graduates. In small part we did it with the last budget law and in small part we do it with the decree Cura Italy, but it is not enough. We must guarantee young doctors who are graduating the opportunity to specialize in our country, since doctors are missing, especially in some specialties, even in ordinary times, not to mention moments like these. If the doctors are missing, the money for the specialty bags must be found. In the decree Cura Italia there are many important investments for the health part and some parts we have also tried to improve them with our amendments. This is an important first step in the right direction, to be increased and strengthened later. I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting a great singer-songwriter and a song that speaks of a past time, of a terrible time that never, like now, comes to light: The bombs fell like snow, on July 19th in San Lorenzo. After the bombing of Verano, the dead return to the surface and there are more than a hundred. The bombs fell in San Lorenzo and a man was looking at his hand. Seen from the Vatican they seemed sparks, man picks up his hand and the dead are a thousand. And one day, you think, this war will end, peace will return and butter will abound. And we're going to lunch on Sunday, outside the door, to Cinecittà. Today, pity is dead, but one day it will be reborn. And then someone will do something, maybe get married. This is how Francesco De Gregori sang in the song "San Lorenzo" ("San Lorenzo") dedicated to the terrible bombing of 19 July 1943 in the Second World War. One day this war will end, peace will return for us too and each of us will do something. What we hope is that it is not forgetting what happened and what left us. We owe it to the many victims of our country. [[Applause from the PD, IV-PSI and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u18	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your information: 77,635 positive people, 15,729 healed, 12,428 deceased for a total of 105,792 cases; 837 dead only yesterday. These are not numbers, they are people, they are stories of exterminated families, they are stories of children who could not even greet their loved ones. They are elders who have not received even one last caress. The League has always been concerned about this emergency and has never underestimated it. We had asked for the closure of direct and indirect flights from China, being far too tranquilizing and denied by the facts the reports of the WHO and not reliable the data provided by the Chinese authorities, so much so that in recent days unofficial sources seem to say that the numbers of deaths in China are far greater than those that have been communicated. We had asked for quarantine to be applied; we had pointed out that the danger was asymptomatic; we had asked for the principle of maximum precaution to be applied. I remember in the first information, that of January 30, Senator Sbrollini, who spoke of too much alarmism, Senator De Petris, who thought that all the preventive measures taken would reassure the fact that the situation, as far as our country was concerned, was under control; Senator Boldrini, stressed that the media were exaggerating very much on the subject; Senator Castellone, said that the Government was operating impeccably, contrary to what the superficial and irresponsible political instrumentalization of some opposition exponent wanted to make sense. Finally, the President-in-Office of the Council, the people's lawyer, who reassured everyone that everything was under control and that the most stringent measures had been taken in Europe, the same thing that he said a few days ago that he would do everything again. Mr. Minister, please tell him something probably didn't work out. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Two months after that information and those words, it is clear that nothing was under control. This is demonstrated by the follow-up of the measures taken, which have underlined that this Government does not know and does not know how to move, both from the health point of view and from the economic point of view. Entering into the substance of the information today illustrated, it is certainly appreciated the presentation of daily data also by the Civil Protection, but probably it was necessary a reading and an interpretation of the more articulated data, to be made available to the citizens and the institutional political authorities. As well as too complex is the line of command: representatives of the Ministry, the Carabinieri, the Higher Institute of Health, the Italian Agency of Drug, the National Institute for Infectious Diseases, the Order of Doctors. They are all high-level and meritorious institutions that would have required better coordination. There was no synthesis; there were no clear and unique references. Just remember that you have issued four self-certifications within a few days. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Too many people engaged in competing to communicate before even knowing what to communicate, becoming evident - this yes - the lack of preparation of a plan with a unified vision on how to manage the crisis. A crisis that has been evident in the procurement of personal protective equipment for health workers, for the Forces of Order, for those who must guarantee the services and activities that cannot be closed. This has evidenced a problem tied to the strategic productive assets and a lack of valorization of the Italian companies, that they have had to close in how much in its time they have carried out races based on offers at the lower price, favoring in this way the Chinese and Indian companies. There was a lack of a truly operational emergency plan and there was work done by healthcare professionals without personal protective equipment (DPI) for excessive bureaucracy. For the past, Minister, there have been other emergencies: one for all, that of SARS, but we have learned nothing, indeed. We have destructured and impoverished the National Health Service. And since all the experts in epidemiology say that the Covid-19 case will not be an occasional phenomenon and difficult to repeat and that therefore we can expect other similar emergencies, we ask you, Minister, to ensure that our country is not unprepared in the face of possible new episodes, as it is at this moment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We appeal to you to simplify the authorization process, allowing the immediate distribution of certified surgical masks, in collaboration with university laboratories, and to take urgent measures for the medical use of electromedical equipment, masks, personal protective devices, even non-EC certified, but evaluated to the standards by the regional health departments or by the commissioners. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, Articles 15 and 16, wanted to establish new procedures for the production and placing on the market of surgical masks and PPE. In fact, you managed to produce a farraginous process, for which an interpretative note was needed on 18 March. Meanwhile, people expect to be exposed to the risk of contagion. We call for a less bureaucratic, but more pragmatic, concrete approach, not to bypass the rules, but to save lives. I find it out of place, among other things, that one of your government colleagues is trying to dump responsibility on the regions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] or - and I hope this is not the case - that he wants to use this emergency to talk about reforms that want us to go back in time, to a centralist position, frustrating all the work done over the years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Steger]] I would like to remind you that if the regions had not organized themselves, as they did, waiting for the state, the deaths would certainly have been more. I would like to bring to the attention of your colleague, Minister Boccia, more committed to making the disgusting parody of others than to dealing in a respectful way with the Presidents of the Regions, that the identification of the parameter of beds per inhabitant was not an autonomous choice of the Regions, but derives from national programming lines clearly, in the state of affairs, incorrect [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which, among other things, provided for one third of the intensive care beds compared to those in Germany. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is therefore objective that the national health policies of recent years in Italy have been completely inadequate. [[Comments from Senator Taverna]] Please, partner! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's going on? Go on, please. Applause must be given to the Alps and to the world of volunteering. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] who, in collaboration with the institutions and with great generosity, in fourteen days in Lombardy performed a miracle, in hospitals built in the pavilion of the former Fiera di Milano and in the other capitals hit by the pandemic. The operation had at the time been dismissed by Commissioner Borrelli, for the impossibility of finding human and technological resources: true, perhaps, by the State, but not for the Regions, to prove that the same represent an added value. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We must allow them to proceed with supplies, working in synergy and without excluding or restricting them, as the state is doing at the moment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There are also delays with regard to the number of swabs available and the small number of laboratories that manage to process them: again in this case we ask you to create the structural conditions to proceed with the execution of swabs and any other laboratory test useful to monitor the epidemic on all people at the forefront, as is done in some regions, aware that only with the detection of asymptomatic positives can the spread of the virus be stopped. Among the people on the front line, Minister, there are also doctors, nurses and operators of residential facilities for the elderly, abandoned to themselves. We ask you to bring in protective devices, to activate tablets and video call systems to allow these elderly people at least to see their children, to provide guidance to protect their fragility, to provide guidelines and protocols on the management of structures. You can't let an entire generation leave like this. Just as we ask for clear and concrete guidelines that can be pursued to protect people with physical and mental disabilities, especially those suffering from autistic spectrum disorders. You must ensure the necessary support for these people and their families: they too have been abandoned. Instead, we ask you to re-assess the decision of the walks with the youngest children, so as not to frustrate the sacrifices made so far. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the other hand, she's the one who said we haven't gotten out yet. This emergency, Minister, has highlighted the need for funding, unlike what you are doing now, not to be rained, but to be targeted and partly directed towards the strengthening of hospitals at provincial and regional level. The state must ensure the responsibility to control, to set objectives and to reorganize health care throughout the country, overcoming the dramatic gap between North and South; it may be uncomfortable, but it is necessary if you really do not want to sell out health care. It is necessary to increase the capacity for experimentation and cooperation between the reference hospital structures of universities and research institutes, both for the moment and for the future. In addition, Minister, it would be appropriate to coordinate with Europe, in order to network the 200 clinical studies currently under way, in order to circulate ideas and information. We have not been able to reason like Europe to block the arrival of the virus; it seemed a single Italian problem. The Europeanism of the States has stopped at the sending of supplies, IPR and respiratory equipment, highlighting all the fragility of what we know as the European Union. We ask you to promote yourself and be the protagonist... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u20	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u21	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall conclude, Mr President. We ask you to promote and be the protagonist of this coordination, to give answers to those who suffer and to find a vaccine as soon as possible. Work must be done on research, prevention, integration for the territory, home care, telemedicine, to assist and support fragile patients and families, involving and enhancing the work of general medical doctors. He must also work on the following, Minister; there is not only the emergency, but there will also be everything that is now standing still, all the ordinary, that is, the latent question, which will be reflected in 2020. Our waiting lists were significant before the pandemic, let's imagine in a few months. And the solution must not be the purchase of private services without any criteria, but the valorization of young doctors who have been introduced into the National Health System, perhaps through the support of those who have been recalled. We are sure, Minister, that you care about the health of Italians. And we, like you, hope that this epidemic will end as soon as possible. That's why we are willing to cooperate whenever possible, but we ask you... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u22	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u23	[[Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] I gave everyone extra time. Sorry, sit down; I'll determine what I want to do. I gave everyone extra time. Senator Fregolent, if you wish you can conclude, otherwise you can also deliver your speech. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] Sorry, I'll talk. Don't worry, I'll talk. Did you finish, Senator Fregolent? FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would simply like to say that we are available, Minister, to give you all the support. We ask you not only to hear us, but also to listen to us. Thank you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, your presence here for the third time gives us the opportunity to thank you for your regard for Parliament, which means that it is about the country, because here the Italians are represented and there are public statements to be taken into account. You have favoured parliamentary seats and work over facade appearances in talk-shows; a sobriety that we recognize and that we appreciate, but that not everyone in your government has applied. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The Italians may not remember his face, as they will remember the face of other representatives of the Government who have held surprise press conferences all the time, but we will remember his commitment and his sobriety. Let's also say that it is good to claim the lights of the activity that the Government has done and the positive things that have happened in our country: the timeliness with which the state of emergency was established on 31 January, the great commitment of many people and of many categories, the doctors, nurses, volunteers, the alpine, the Forces of order and all those who have given their contribution, even those who continue to keep up the essential services, perhaps less visible. It's all positive evidence, but from that statement in the state of emergency, on January 31st, then something obviously didn't work out. Italy has certainly marked some extremely positive points in the action in recent weeks, but it cannot be an example in general. We were the country with the most contagions until a few days ago, even if we are now overtaken by the United States, but they have a population five times higher. Unfortunately, we are the country that mourns the greatest number of deaths and that also has the greatest mortality. We are a country in which, sixty days after the declaration of the state of emergency, there are still missing masks for many categories, even at risk. There is also a lack of equipment: they now write to me from Bergamo that they also lack oxygen cylinders. Something didn't work. We had to think about the supply: you, Minister, stressed the difficulties of supplying yourself at a time when so many are doing so, which is why weeks and days are precious. Only on 11 March was the Commissioner appointed, who should deal with the supply of materials, but it had been forty days since the emergency had been declared. Frankly, we would be better off if we had moved earlier in this respect and had the Commissioner put in place more speed, faster and more response to those who offered themselves and proposed the production and supply of materials. Unfortunately, this has been even ridiculed, but the question of the continuous changes in the forms is really a wrong message: bureaucratisation of something that needs to be based on substance is not the right message to give to citizens. It is possible that in the Ministries it is not understood that on the form of self-declaration it must be clear what you have come out to do and it is not necessary that you cite to be aware of such circular, such decree, the other ministerial decree or the other DPCM. How can one be aware of this coacervo of norms? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The last one is yesterday to get the kids out. I get messages from difficult areas, but also from areas that are better able to fight contagion: it is a very wrong message. Already there were confused norms and there is also the circular of the head of Cabinet of the Ministry to correct, to add, to enlarge, to restrict, then arrives the statements of the Minister: this is not how it must be done. And I have to say that this is the case at a time when many regulations - almost all of them - have been written by the Government and most by decree - not even by decree-law - that is, without the trouble of having to make agreements in Parliament. Well, that also tells us that the rules are better done in Parliament. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] if when the government makes them on its own, it makes them so confused and contradictory. We have read and we have also seen a series of criticisms that have been made to the Italian system: constructive criticism, which we stress. Forza Italia always has as its center of action the defense of the interests of the Italians: that we are to the Government or that we are to the opposition to us interests this, so we appreciate its demand for unity and sharing. That is why we share positive things, but we take note of negative things. The University of Harvard made a study in which it indicated, among the shortcomings of the Italian system, the fact that the different regions manage health care in different ways. But it would be precisely the national level, on the basis of the Constitution, which entrusts to the level of the State the international prophylaxis and the fundamental principles of health protection, so it was precisely at the state level that it had to coordinate them. He told us a series of principles that we share: they should have been implemented earlier. A tool that would certainly have been useful, and which has been useful to some extent, is the National Agency for Regional Health Services, whose summit has been changed by you - I am talking about the Director-General, Dr. Bevere - against the opinion of the Regions. It was confirmed just last summer by Minister Grillo. Then there was also this further change, which was much criticized, also by Regions governed by the center-left. Let's say that having weakened a similar instrument in this period has certainly weakened a contribution that would have been valuable. We want to highlight a number of points that we have already mentioned, even on 30 January, when you came to report on this emergency for the first time. Since then, we have been calling for more controls at airports - even if the subject is now largely out of date - and since then we have been calling for a wider use of the masks, the tools that protect themselves, but above all the others. But the masks need to have them. Even now there are medical and paramedical categories, there are the Forces of the Order that have a great shortage of them in terms of quantity but also of quality. The Forces of Order are provided with masks not even like this one I hold, which is still considered not sufficient for those who are in direct contact with other people, but of much lower quality. This is not acceptable. It is right to remember the great work of our heroic doctors, paramedics and other categories, but we must also give them the tools. We must also say a clear word: at a time when doctors and paramedics are fighting on the front line and have had so many deaths - dozens of doctors in Lombardy alone have lost their lives - in order to defend others, in order to work in the service of others, it is unacceptable that there should be this race for complaints for medical responsibility. I am counting on the prosecutors to make these complaints the end they deserve, because in moments of pandemics it is really not acceptable to try to win over the emergency situation. We have asked and we share, but it must be observed at all levels, to separate as much as possible the structures that deal with Covid from the others. The presence in hospitals and also the use of certain equipment was one of the causes of the spread of the epidemic. We underline the example of Veneto with the tracking and the massive use of swabs for all categories at risk, that is those who for work, for their own activity, are in contact with many other people, especially if sick. In many places, however, this does not happen, there is a shortage in this area. All people at risk must be tracked in order to widen the perimeter as far as possible, to prevent the worsening of diseases. The saving on the buffer is not really far-sighted even from the purely economic point of view: the cost of a single day of hospitalization, and unfortunately the days are many more, is much, but much, but much higher than the cost of a buffer. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We must spread this strategy as widely as possible. In Veneto it worked and in other countries it also worked. It is necessary to pay great attention - he mentioned in his communication - to serological tests - you called it the serological test - to know who can return to work, who can return to their activities, because all activities are important. We said - as the chairman of our Group said, Anna Maria Bernini, about a month ago, on 27 February - that the economic emergency would soon be just as urgent as the health emergency. Silvio Berlusconi said this yesterday in an interview: now we must avoid bringing people to hunger and despair for the economic emergency. But the two things go together: there can obviously not be a recovery of economic activity if there is no effective action from the health point of view, but you cannot think of keeping the country closed for months. We must see - and it is urgent - everything we can do in order to be able to return to produce again. I repeat, President Bernini remembered it a month ago. A majority senator, who I will not quote - but remained in the record - said: "You're making an absurd terrorism!" "But you're ashamed, you don't know what you're talking about." [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Well, obviously we were right, but we don't want to be right: we want to do something good for our country. That is why we will support you, Minister, but we ask that we be heard and that our proposals be taken seriously and implemented. You, despite the great competences that the Regions have on this, still have a duty to do so in many respects and with regard to the fundamental principles. We will support it and we will be ready to underline the positive aspects and those that can be improved, in support of our country, in memory of the many who have left us, in support of those many people who are at the forefront in fighting this battle. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u26	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u27	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to address the Minister: like you, we feel on our shoulders all the weight and responsibility for the management of the greatest health and social emergency since the post-war period. This Government and this Parliament have never stopped a single day in the fight against this pandemic. A silent war that has so far resulted in a large loss of human lives, despite the data released yesterday by the World Health Organization indicate that, thanks to the measures put in place in Italy, 38,000 more deaths have been avoided. We're in the trenches. People are in the trenches struggling to move forward and now, in addition to fear of themselves and loved ones' health, they fear the economic and social repercussions of this crisis. We are in the trenches of all of us who, as legislators, work to put in place the measures necessary to stem this immense tragedy. In trenches are mainly those who operate on the front line, the Forces of the Order and the health personnel. Finally, there is the most painful trench, which is that of the sick: not only the hospitalized, who face in hospital the ordeal of the disease, but also all those who in their homes wait too long for a taking charge that then allows to be inserted in the path of cure of this disease. Minister, we are at your side and do not intend to follow in the footsteps of those who continue to speculate on a tragedy of this magnitude. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We believe that this is not the time for recriminations and the hunting of responsibilities, but instead it is the time to get to work together, with the desire to help the country to soon overcome this darkness, seeking the most scientifically valid solutions. We, Minister, are at work, each with his own expertise, giving the best of ourselves. I, as a doctor and researcher, studied the data, compared them with those of other countries and examined all the therapeutic protocols with the will and hope to find a window and today I want to expose the results that I have reached. The social gap needed at this stage to reduce infection must be followed by the development of long-term strategies to stem the possible resumption of the spread of the virus, when restrictive measures will inevitably be relaxed and all this must necessarily go through a vision of health and public health that has the whole community at its centre and that directs resources towards a real strengthening of territorial health care, with telemedicine tools and new technologies. We must focus on home care - as you said too - on the early take-up of positive patients, accelerating the procedures of diagnosis and direction of each sick person towards the most suitable therapeutic path, according to national guidelines. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, with my colleagues from the Health Commission, we have been paying attention to the extreme need to fortify territorial medicine, finally starting those famous networks of primary care and intermediate care that are completely non-existent in many regions. Enhancing territorial assistance means treating early Covid patients and trying to reduce their admissions, avoiding saturated intensive therapies and preventing hospitals themselves from becoming an outbreak. Already in the decree of 14 March were planned special units of care continuity, teams of local doctors with the task of diagnosing, treating and monitoring patients at home. It is therefore essential that the regions now implement this plan. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this regard, the Italian Agency of the drug goes my and our thanks for having moved a first step in this direction, giving the green light to the home administration of antivirals and antimalarial drugs, drugs that in many cases - I am sure - will help to save human lives, allowing the cure of the disease before the onset of pulmonary complications. In order to trace the evolution and spread of the epidemic, it is essential, moreover, to focus on tools of analysis in the carpet of the contagions, even of the asymptomatic ones, especially in the sensitive places (hospitals, residences for the elderly, schools) and immunes and for this surveillance we hope that tests may soon be available able to detect the antibody response to the infection. However, the analysis of the data of this epidemic also clearly highlights another critical fact: the heterogeneity between the strategies implemented in the various regions. In fact, it was immediately clear that the diversity in the ability to contain contagions and ensure isolation was linked to a different organization of regional health systems and in fact, after having tried to claim that there could be different solutions to a single problem and after trying to blame others for their faults, discharge to the Government all responsibility, many regional representatives then invoked draconian measures from the same Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is no longer room for 20 different regional health care systems, a national health system needs to be restored, because public health requires a unified approach that guarantees citizens throughout the national territory the same right to care. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is therefore necessary to question the current Title V of the Constitution and the need to entrust the management of health to a central address of the State with the assistance of the Regions. The public health system must be re-launched, investing decisively, as it has done in these two years, in research and technological innovation. It is necessary to continue on the path taken by the development of health workers, recognising their merit and competences. We need to review the role of private health, which must really be complementary and not substitute. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today it is clear to everyone what 37 billion health cuts have meant in the last ten years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , what 71,000 beds meant and 46,500 doctors and nurses that public health lost from 2009 to 2017. Today the priority is to deal with this pandemic at all costs with extraordinary initiatives, but then we will have to critically review the health policies of the last decade and put in place courageous choices having a vision of the future that we want to build. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to work with the commitment that distinguishes us and make our fellow citizens feel how close we are to them, how much we are all on the same boat, how much we are prepared to sacrifice ourselves for the common good. Our political leader has appealed to Members of all political forces to halve their salaries. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-Psd'AZ Groups]] ). We have always done so, and we have already allocated EUR 3 million to Civil Protection to strengthen the intensive care departments. ( [[Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-Psd'AZ Groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u28	Colleagues, please let my colleague finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u29	CASTELLONE (M5S). Now we can all do more together. We are witnessing moving examples of solidarity of those who are willing at this time of trouble to sacrifice the little they have to alleviate the suffering of others. We follow the example of entrepreneurs, who are sacrificing the work of a lifetime by converting their companies to produce medical equipment. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ). We follow the example of health workers, the forces of order and the operators of essential services, who are sacrificing their time, their families and their lives to protect the safety and health of all of us with bare hands, without adequate protection because no region had provided to store the personal protective devices provided for in the national pandemic plan. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-Psd'AZ Groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u30	Everyone thinks what they want, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u31	CASTELLONE (M5S). We follow the example of young people who are helping the elderly to shop to keep them safe in their homes and the example of volunteers who assist families with children and children with disabilities in this phase of loneliness. Let us follow the example of suspended spending and digital solidarity because Italy is a great country and will be able to stand up stronger than before if all of us can fight together for the common good by bringing into play the best part of ourselves. We're just gonna keep it together. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Mr Brusio, President of the Commission.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u32	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Health, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u33	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-204.ana.u34	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 8 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.40 a.m.
