ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1994.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u5	Mr President, the first ristori decree and its additions to the decrees bis, ter and c have introduced new tax and contribution provisions for support for businesses, the economy and work, as well as further urgent measures. The adoption of new amendments by the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a introduced several innovations in support of families and workers penalized by the emergency. It is right to point out that these are the result of joint work between majority and opposition. The latter, for some shared changes, have proposed amendments for some EUR 380 million compared with the 600 available to Parliament on this measure. This is the first time, in this difficult and tormented phase of the country's life, that majority and opposition manage to establish a dialogue and a productive confrontation, allowing to find points of sharing and valorization of some improvement proposals. This is a good thing that we hope will happen again. Italy Viva-PSI has helped to improve and enrich with its amendments this full-bodied and varied decree. After proposing this measure in several measures, this time the Commissions have reduced, for the year 2021, the expenditure incurred for electricity users other than domestic use in respect of the activities already active since 25 October 2020 and equipped with active VAT code falling within the codes Ateco that the measure protects, for a total cost of reduction of the bills vis-à-vis the subjects considered pairs to 180 million euros for 2021. Much has been said in the past to criticize measures such as the jobs act, which, through the contribution relief, has nevertheless ensured an increase in employment. Today that same ratio is the basis for the adoption of the amendment which, in order to specifically promote youth employment, provides for the recognition of a full contribution reduction for contracts concluded in 2021 to employers employing a number of first-level apprentices. Since its birth Italy Viva-PSI has been engaged on the themes of gender equality. Our amendment, adopted by the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a, ensures that there is gender balance between the members of the national professional councils. To this end, electoral lists will have to reserve at least two fifths of the seats to the least represented gender. In addition, the amendment provides for a committee to be set up in national councils to protect equal opportunities. Another amendment provides for the allocation of a contribution to social cooperatives with regard to the recruitment of women who are victims of gender-based violence and included in their protection pathways under permanent employment contracts. For weeks we have been expressing our concern about the fate of Italian fishermen stopped in Libya. Our amendment provides adequate financial support for their families and businesses themselves. To this end, it is expected that, with a decree from the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, the arrangements for the payment of the contributions will be determined. The Commissions meeting 5a and 6a approved an amendment which, from 1 January to 31 March 2021, exempts catering establishments and those dedicated to the administration of meals and drinks from the payment of the fee or fee due for the occupation of public spaces and areas. The aim of the provision is to encourage the resumption of tourism activities. In addition, holders of concessions and authorisations concerning the use of public land for the exercise of trade in public areas are exempted from paying the temporary occupation fee for public areas and public areas or their fee. We also dealt with territory. In order to facilitate and enhance access to telemedicine services by the citizenship of small urban centres, an amendment recognizes, for the year 2021, pharmacies operating in municipalities or towns with less than 3,000 inhabitants a tax credit for a maximum amount of 3,000 euros for the purchase and rental of equipment necessary for the performance of telemedicine. In a more precise way, then, an amendment is aimed at workers belonging to the Pip basin, so-called Emergency Palermo. The Sicilian Region is authorized, in order to achieve the gradual overcoming of the use of personnel with atypical employment contract, to establish a special role when exhausted at one of its companies for the transit of personnel. A further amendment aims to allow the sole party responsible for the Mantua Hub project to make the necessary changes to the contract concluded, always in compliance with the tender documents and the European directives, in order to allow the completion of the works and, at the same time, the valorisation of the territory. In the field of study and training, an amendment aims to extend, through the operation of Studiare Sviluppo Srl and INDIRE, the provision of assistance and support to central administrations, regions and local authorities in the respective areas of competence. The second amendment therefore provides for a contribution of three million for colleges of merit. Finally, in the social field, an amendment aims to amend the current rules and to equate social enterprises with social cooperatives, which are also considered social enterprises, for the purposes of the obligations of Law No 68 of 1999. This is to support those companies which wish to promote the inclusion of workers in conditions of social disadvantage and, at the same time, fulfil the obligations laid down in Law No 68 of 1999. Mr President, we believe that the work done on this decree is overall positive. I thank the Presidents D'Alfonso and Pesco, the rapporteurs Marino and Presutto, together with the undersecretaries Guerra and Castaldi, for the conduct of the work and the activity of coordination and analysis of the various proposals. Let me, however, express a concern, which I believe to be widely shared, about the increasingly inseparable process that we are forced to undergo in the examination of the various measures. Once again, Mr President, only one of the two chambers of the Italian Parliament is examining a measure by the Government. We are now at a de facto modification of the material Constitution of our country, with an alternating monocameral surreptitious. I believe that no political force in this House can appreciate the stabilisation of an improper and problematic operating mode. I therefore appeal to everyone, to the Presidency, to the Groups and to the Government, so that, with responsibility, we can put our hands on the rules of regulation and constitutional law to return to giving full dignity to Parliament, which is the holder of the legislative power under the Constitution, but which, unfortunately, in practice is increasingly relegated to a marginal role. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u6	Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we would have liked to have come to this House by saying that we are satisfied, that we are finally there. Unfortunately, however, that is not the case. Once again, there was no such flagrant collaboration with oppositions. You have rejected so many amendments. Important, indispensable and sensible amendments. Requests from planet Earth, from artisans, traders, professionals, VAT matches, trade associations, simple citizens. Budgetary distraction of more than EUR 100 billion. We started with the decree cure Italy and with the statements of President Conte: we are a model. Europe follows us. It is a good thing that Europe has not followed us. The decree throws again, always the president Conte: a complex text, pairs to two maneuvers, an incredible job to orient the economy to a prompt restart. A restart that wasn't there. To arrive, then, at the August decree. Historical intervention and Prime Minister Conte who reiterates: we do not want to leave anyone behind. And many, too many, have been left behind. [[Applause]] After months and months of non-programming and non-listening to the territory, we have arrived today, with four decrees ristori. The government thus gave birth to the decree of alms [[Applause]] Because that's what we're talking about. There is very little time at my disposal and I shall therefore dwell on a number of points, one of which I am particularly interested in. The League has tabled a package of amendments, which would give breath and dignity to the category of fragile workers. With an amendment we asked for the possibility of equalizing absence from work to hospitalization, for immunodepressed people, for cancer patients, for those who are supporting life-saving care and for people with serious disabilities. However, the amendment was rejected. We had also asked to bring paid leave days from twelve to eighteen, for working parents who have children with serious disabilities and to be able to take advantage of them until 31 December. This amendment has also been rejected. Do not tell us that this is a cross-cutting issue, which affects all parties, because otherwise our proposals and our amendments would not have ended up in the basket. [[Applause]] How did you find the resources for scooters, and so much more money that you put back into the budget law, as you found the resources for wheelchairs, as you paid the 72 million euros of commission for the purchase of masks, you could have found the money for this category of people as well. Then you have to explain to us why, among the amendments to the decree-restoration law, the 6.5 million euros in favour of the Hub of Mantua, which has nothing to do with the decree-restoration, so much so that in the first draft of the budget law, if I am not mistaken in Article 90, was present this expenditure, in favour of the Hub of Mantua, which then disappeared and ended up in the measure under consideration. So could these resources not be used for fragile workers or for truly supporting the damaged? You also rejected the amendment that supported the commercial activities in the historic centers of the small municipalities with a touristic vocation, which you abandoned, considering only the provincial capitals. I remember one of them, San Gimignano, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, which celebrated its 30th anniversary just last Saturday, and which was completely forgotten. We had tabled an important amendment, because there is not only San Gimignano, but also Pienza, Montalcino, Montepulciano, Assisi, Cortona and I could continue forever, but nothing: these realities have been completely forgotten. I would now like to focus on Article 633 of the Criminal Code, which states that "Everyone who arbitrarily invades other people's land or buildings, whether public or private, in order to occupy them or otherwise profit from them, is punished, in the case of the person offended, by imprisonment and fine." Ergo, abusive employment is a crime [[Applause]] , but the Government and the majority, with a rule, authorize those who occupy without title a property to self-certification the residence in the property itself, so as to obtain recognition of the emergency income. Of course, the amendment tabled by the League, which put up to this shameful rule, has also been rejected. So the government and the majority not only incite lawlessness, but do more: they tell the criminals to squash property, because, if they occupy them, we pay them. [[Applause]] Is this Italy we want? We don't want it that way! Did you realize that this rule frustrates the complex and difficult work done by local administrations in the fight against abuse? Colleagues, why do the legality and the respect of the rules make you so disgusting? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Nisini. I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to distance myself from some statements made by colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars, who yesterday praised and beat the hand of Minister Azzolina, because he will open schools on 7 January. I would like to remind my colleagues that the schools were to open in September: our children have lost months of school and the inability and incompetence of this Minister will pay for it by ours and your children. I will really finish, Mr President, I'm sorry. Minister Bonafede, with the approval of the Government and the majority parties, has carried out a real empty prisons, because they will be released, between house arrests and electronic bracelets, 5,000 prisoners, forgetting once again the prison police, which is free of masks [[Applause]] And it is also thanks to an amendment by the League that overtime will be paid to the prison police from October until December 31 (this is good news). I could go on forever, but unfortunately there is little time; there would be so much to say and I am convinced that my colleagues will continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u8	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we are here to put the last word to the conversion of Decree-Law No 137 of 2020. In fact, we are here to convert four decrees-laws, the nn. 137, 149, 154 and 157. The very fact that we are here to convert four decrees into one decree alone I think is enough to provide us with a picture of the complexity that this season the Government and Parliament are living to try to be at the side of businesses, families, citizens and local communities, in the transition of this dramatic situation that the consequences of the Covid epidemic leave to our civil community. These four decree-laws contain extensions of payments, postponement of tax deadlines, exemption from payments, allowances, grants, support funds for sectors in particular situations of drama due to the emergency, tax credits, extension of cash integration, bonuses for particular sectors, financing to citizens and businesses for the revival of the economy, support to regions and municipalities, bonuses, parental leave, emergency income, special support to the agricultural sector, the third sector (sport, entertainment, culture) and a little to all sectors affected by the situation we are experiencing. As has already been said by many of my previous colleagues, there are many speeches on the ground, because we have tried to deal with all the aspects of the emergency situation in which we are sailing. An important work has been done by the Government in the preparation of the decrees, but I want to reiterate that an important work has also been done by the Commissions in the process of conversion here in the Senate. The very fact - as some Members have already pointed out - that, out of the 600 million made available for the integration measures by Parliament, as many as 380 were earmarked for measures pointed out by the oppositions (although in a framework of general sharing) I believe that a great deal is said about the cooperation work that has been done here in an absolutely important way. I believe that this is a fundamental step, because the path of conversion of the decree-law I think has left a great awareness in all of us who have worked on this text. I am referring first of all to the awareness of the need for a simpler country. Reading many of the amendments that have been tabled, some of which have also been adopted, we have realised how much work needs to be done to simplify the lives of citizens and businesses, which in everyday life are faced with a thousand complexities. I believe that we will have to return to this issue and that we will all have to work together, because this is a fundamental challenge to look more serenely at the future. The second great awareness is that, after this emergency (which we hope will end soon), we will all have to work together for a more strategic and design vision for the future of the country. What happened certainly gives us the need to address and resolve everyday issues, but it gives us above all the awareness that we must draw, from now on, a future country that draws from the events that we have experienced the indications to model ourselves in a new way. I believe that this is an absolutely fundamental fact for the further passages that we will go to make, starting from the so-called decree ristori five, that already appears on the horizon. The third awareness is that we must all work together to rebuild a new model of social cohesion. The fact of having to think about how to meet those who are not within the ordinary working and business figures shows us the extreme heterogeneity of the reference framework that we have before us. We had to note that entire categories were submerged or parasubmerged, therefore not supported by the decree-ristorist laws; we realized that many measures taken in some way highlighted areas of circumvention, evasion or in any case of economic marginality that require to be rethought. All this gives us the need to rethink a model of social cohesion and social equity that we will all have to put in place together by looking at the Italy of the future. I was saying before I realized that the events that we have experienced give us. I believe that, when we look at Decree-Laws Ristori 5 and look in other ways at the recovery fund and the PNRR that we will have to define in the coming weeks, we must have very clear the idea of Italy that we want. And we should be clear that, starting with the next measures that we are going to have to tackle, the pieces that we are going to put on the ground will have to go in the direction of that idea of Italy and of the civil community that we have in mind. We are called to solve emergencies and to make planning measures for the 2021 budget, but we are called above all to imagine the Italy that we would like to deliver to our children. The investments made this year and which we are preparing to make for the years to come are certainly necessary and important, but they are to some extent due, and we will deliver them as such to our children. Therefore, we must ensure that this debt, this investment that we will make is absolutely in line with what we think are the expectations and expectations of our children. I conclude with a quotation that came to mind at many times, especially in the most crucial moments, when Pat Cox settled down as President of the European Parliament. Well, in his inaugural speech he quoted a phrase from the greatest Irish poet, William Butler Yeats: my dreams lie under your feet; walk lightly to walk on my dreams. Pat Cox in that inaugural speech said that he, whenever he was preparing to enter a classroom in which he had to make decisions, felt on his shoulders the responsibility he imagined derived from that sentence as if his sons and grandchildren had told him. I believe that the season we are experiencing gives us this responsibility: knowing that with our choices we walk on the dreams of our children and the citizens who look to us. If we can do this and we can put it down in the practical way in which we will move every day in this House on the next steps, I think we will do something good for this country of ours, which much expects from the choices that we will have to make. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u10	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u11	Mr President, to my previous colleague, who spoke of handing Italy over to our children, I say that you are delivering it with scooters, with wheelchairs... [[Comments.]] Yes, that's it: this is the Italy you're delivering. [[Applause.]] You're destroying the country. I repeat, you are destroying the country. Just see how many people Minister Bonafede is getting out of prison: this is the reality. [[Comments.]] Yes! You said we cooperated. But how do you cooperate? We have tabled 1,500 amendments and three have passed: this is not cooperation. You're destroying the country and you're responsible for it. [[Applause.]] Or rather, you of the Movimento 5 Stars have always spoken in your program of the happy decrease. You did it! You're taking the country to degrowth. I would like to explain two of the 1,500 amendments which we have tabled and which you have rejected: with the first, we have asked for the help of agents of commerce with a grant, but the amendment has been rejected; with the second, we have proposed to help the food sector and the clothing sector, whose supply chain is suffering, but this too has been rejected. Maybe you really live on Mars. When you come here, you say you're satisfied, but for what? Just leave Roma Termini station and come to the Senate to realize that everywhere there are signs with written "Rent" or "For sale". You're closing down small and medium-sized enterprises. You're closing them. That is the reality. I remember that in June we were talking about Villa Doria Pamphilj and a famous meeting that took place there, but what did it do? We're in the fourth decree. What was it for? Now run errands with 300 people and six consultants. But this is the House to which you must speak! You need to talk here! [[Applause]] What you lack is the vision of where we are today and where you want to take the country. So, since we're under Christmas, maybe you give a nice Christmas present: the government has to resign to give usefulness and give a vision to this country. This is the only thing you can do today to make us a truly modern country. This is what has been missing today. I would remind you of another proposal made, Mr President, among the concrete amendments that we had tabled, concerning rents. Our proposal was to reduce commercial rent. My colleagues come to television with me and say that it is a good idea but then in the Commission the idea was rejected. This is you on TV saying one thing, and here you do another. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u13	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, senators, the ristori decree is added to the list of measures put in place by the Government to deal with the emergency situation caused by the Covid-19. The pandemic has entered our daily life with unheard of violence, distorting our habits and, above all, our certainties. 2020 has been a year that has made us discover fragile, physically and psychologically, requiring multiple interventions in different areas: health, school, family and organisation of distance work in the economic and commercial sectors. The first Covid wave has been addressed with a series of decrees which, although with some organizational difficulties due to the unexpected workload, have tried to stem at best the most disparate problems. I refer to the decree cure Italy, to the decree throwing again, to the decree August - or throwing again- bis - and to all the economic aids that with them have been regulated for a total of 100 billion euros that have been allocated to help our country. We all hoped that difficult times would not come again over the months, trying to regain small spaces and to start again with the small daily actions, those actions we have often complained about, calling them banal routines, but of which we have learned to appreciate the essentiality. The calm was only apparent and the second wave that struck us made new measures necessary. The Government therefore launched, in October, the ristori decree that provided for the re-use of funds not used with the previous measures. This is not a lack of government, it is a mistake, but it is the natural consequence of the need - unique because of the pandemic - to activate as quickly as possible the instruments able to add as many businesses and citizens as possible. And so it was. On the other hand, sometimes the excellent enemy of good and lengthening the times to write a perfect decree would make the instruments themselves ineffective. Pareto teaches at this point. This is also the case with the same October ristori decree, which, on the one hand, had the opportunity to immediately reach the companies of 73 categories of Ateco code and to pay by the first days of December already 2.4 billion euros, on the other hand it was insufficient in its resolving scope. This is why the Ristori- bis was born, which extended to 130 categories of companies benefiting from compensation, defined extensions of time limits for tax payments, suspension of the payment of social security contributions, cancellation of the IMU instalment in December and still extraordinary leave for parents due to the closure of secondary schools of first grade, baby sitting bonuses, extraordinary fund for the support of third sector entities and strengthening of local public transport. Then in the scenario came two other measures: the restori-ter, which provided for 2 billion in favor of the extension of the grants to the regions passed into the orange or red zone, but also an additional 400 million for the benefit of the municipalities for the food emergency, and the ristori-c, which added 9 billion to cover a wide range of tax extensions (Irpef, Ires, VAT, contributions, installments of the break-up-b) that will serve to give more solidity to our enterprises and VAT lot, and allowances for the Forces of the order and the fire department. A number of amendments have been adopted during the parliamentary procedure, and I quote from many of them two strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars. The first, in my first signature and shared with the other majority forces, concerns the exemption from payment TOSAP/COSAP for the first quarter of 2021 for public operating companies holding authorisations or concessions relating to the use of public land. It may seem not of primary importance but, if we think of the inconveniences that have had to suffer all the bars, pizzerias, restaurants and pubs first with the closure of the activities, then with the limitations due to the respect of all the anti-Covid norms, including the distancing of the tables and the consequent necessity to acquire additional spaces for the tables outside, the elimination of this additional cost gives breath to the economic activities in difficulty. The other amendment that I would like to mention, at the first signature of Senator Accoto, is that which, eliminating the planned and not yet issued decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance, has in fact finally unblocked the passage of the maximum amount of the loan of the microcredit from 25,000 euros to 40,000 euros. This amendment will allow a greater use of this instrument, which is very useful in the current phase for the restarting and the emergence of new businesses. Overall, the package of the four ristori decrees has a dowry of more than €19 billion to strengthen and extend the protection network around our economic and productive fabric. In the night between Friday and Saturday in the budget and finance Committees we approved about 70 amendments that are worth a little more than 600 million euros, which have helped to affect other sectors of our country, but we have closed - and this should not be forgotten and it must be told the Italians - because the majority granted the minority about 60% of this amount, because the obstructive attitude of part of the opposition was such that it was likely not to close the measure. I could have said that we have closed because, despite the close confrontation between majority and opposition, in the end common sense prevailed. But the reality is that oppositions - or part of them - have decided to do parliamentary obstructionism at a time when we should all travel together in support of Italy, as requested by the President of the Republic. These things, Mr President, must be said to the country and to those who listen to us and we must remember them above all, because parliamentary dialectic is one thing, to obstruct in a pandemic situation is something else, because we must not play with the lives of Italians. [[Applause]] In this regard, I am making a digression and I remind the previous speaker that he boasted that he had tabled 1,500 amendments, which is exactly the problem, if we have to think of Italy. [[Applause]] I always remind those who preceded us that measures for commercial agents are within the arctic of the restori-c, so talking about it as something that has not passed makes no sense. [[Applause. Comments.]] Having said that, Mr President, the emerging situation of the Covid-19 is unique in the history of our Republic; it has never been so complex and, because of its changing nature day after day, it can be approached not with the classic schemes, but with measures that need to be calibrated from time to time. We are aware that what we have done so far is not enough: there are still many areas that the Government and we as majority forces must deal with. But we are sure of one thing: none of us has gone back; we have always worked; this Parliament has never stopped and even the Commissions, even in the midst of the many organizational difficulties that accompany us. I just hope that, just as we have tried to involve everyone, because the measures concerning the Covid-19 cannot and must not have color, the oppositions - or rather, part of them - decide for the future measures to really collaborate for the good of the country with the facts and not only with the words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u14	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u15	Mr President, Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, there are two feelings that I feel the most: anger and impotence. I feel anger for how you are managing the economic crisis of our country in an approximate way, with an incomprehensible communication and without strategic vision; anger in reading the four decrees today in question, ironically called ristors. I then feel powerless in the face of measures far from the world of work, the world of VAT matches and entrepreneurs, and the real world. After having snubbed us for months, now fill your mouth with words such as collaboration just because you are with the water to the throat and, with your incompetence, you are dragging the whole of Italy into the abyss. In these months we have fought for all the categories that have suffered damage, to see them compensated and supported. What's the point of staying open, but not being able to work because my client is closed? The logic had to be that of the entire chain but, since the proposal came to us, you remained deaf continuing with the chaos of the Ateco codes. You're acting like enemies of the Italians. [[Applause.]] Instead, I want to thank the entrepreneurs who have even anticipated the integration fund from their pockets: they have at their heart the good of the workers and give you lessons of civilization every day. We are tired of your differentiated treatments between guaranteed employees and entrepreneurs and professionals, just tartassati. Those who work in the public, including us, are paid by those who pay taxes, make this country go around, risking personally and giving work to others, and you have left them alone and without protection. We are tired of an enemy government of those who really run the economy in our country. Without businesses there is no work. Do you find that difficult to understand? Stop treating VAT matches as evaders, thugs, B-series citizens, to be hindered in any way. We want young people to be able to choose freely whether to undertake, or to work as employees and to do so with the same rights, the same duties and the same conditions, even with greater support if, thanks to their entrepreneurial initiative, they also give jobs to others. But many of you have no idea what I'm saying. You have authority without authority. You're not credible. You're ignoring that world of people who get up every morning at dawn. You don't know what it's like to make sacrifices and make ends meet at the end of the month, like a good family father. [[Applause]] You have sold our sovereignty to Europe. How long will you tell us that it is necessary to accept the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) in order to restore our Health Service? Instead, talk about how to heal monstrous inefficiencies and reduce the chasms of waste. [[Applause.]] Are you telling the Italians that there will be a flood of money, but why don't you say that these are pledge receipts that future generations will have to return to a Europe that will impose another people's lawyer on us? You've made a mess of Parliament, set up ridiculous task forces with hundreds of people paid for with public money, creating only an unbecoming confusion. The total deviation of 108 billion was thrown in tips and bonuses of all kinds, from scooters to bicycles, from holidays to lotteries. Tell him that you want to create a database and eliminate cash to make us depend on electronic money, with which large distributors will be paid, while shops and small businesses will be forced to close. I do not know how much this is incompetence and how much will it is to scientifically destroy our country. We are moving towards the greatest economic and social crisis since the Second World War, with the worst government that could happen to us. You are undermining the roots and traditions of the Italian people. Every holy day you aim to increase the fear of Italians through scandalous information. After almost a year there is still a pandemic plan and clear protocols for home care. After abolishing the Passover Mass and now the millennial tradition of midnight Mass, deploy 70,000 armed men to control walks and trips. Imagine if the dangerous sovereignist Salvini had done that? You feel entitled to decide who the Italians must see within their family and intimate sphere. Shame on you! The Italians have already seen who you are. You can't do this anymore. Hiding. The king is already naked and the freedom to decide from whom to be governed is still valid. Get ready. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u16	She's enlisted to speak Senator Petrenga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u17	Mr President, we are in the middle of the second wave of this serious pandemic that has brought the whole world to its knees. According to the statements of the virologists and doctors who are on the front line, to which our thanks must always be renewed, also on behalf of all Italians, for the moving commitment they have made and who are continuing to deepen in order to try to save as many human lives as possible, a third wave is expected for the beginning of the new year, unless as soon as possible arrives the long-awaited green light of the EMA for the administration of vaccines that have already successfully passed the trial. Entire sectors have literally been cut down and the productive fabric of the country has been strongly compromised. Traders, craftsmen, restaurateurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, VAT holders, hoteliers, seasonal workers and I could continue for a long time: each of these categories has suffered significant losses, which for some of them have already meant economic death. Well, in such a situation, a responsible government would have put structural measures in place aimed - on the one hand - at enabling all these activities to survive and, on the other hand, at setting up guarantee schemes for families. Brothers of Italy immediately became available, with a collaborative spirit and in the exclusive interest of all Italians, to make proposals in this regard, contesting the correct protection of public health with the undeniable protection of the economy and productivity. Unfortunately, however, the Government has shown itself, at least until now, deaf to any of our proposals. This is demonstrated by the fact that the decree-law in question was immediately denied by the Government itself, which had to resort to reparations with the decree-laws restori- bis, ter and cc, throwing the entire country into a degree of insufferance and uncertainty. Since its inception, this measure has proved to be short-lived and in the long run has displeased all categories a bit, for the revolt of the risors recognized in the face of the losses suffered. In fact, to think of having to refresh only the activities forced to close, forgetting completely those belonging to their induced that, although not closed by decree, they have suffered in fact the same fate, was a wrong choice. I am thinking - for example - of the firms in the school canteen sector, which have been excluded from the measure, despite some regions in the red zone have closed schools and, consequently, school canteens. I am also thinking of those activities of services related to the museum centres which, because of the closures imposed on the latter, have effectively suspended all their activities; or to the wholesale companies in the catering sector which, due to the closure of restaurants, pizzerias and bars, have compressed their turnover and have been left out. For this reason, Brothers of Italy had made proposals of common sense, such as the refreshment of all activities that have had a contraction in turnover of more than 33% compared to the previous year, or the application of a reduced VAT and tax regime until 2022 for companies that guarantee company continuity, continuing with the recognition of a single system of social shock absorbers, because all workers are equal and there must be no discrimination between self-employed and employees. None of these proposals have been transposed by the Government which, on the contrary, has continued to put in place actions which, rather than being decisive and structural, tend to shift the problem forward. We reiterate that these measures, as they are structured, are inefficient because, with the refreshments, only 25% of the losses suffered by artisans, traders and traders have been covered. The inevitable consequence will be that, by the end of this year, 350,000 small businesses are at risk of closure, leaving one million employees out of work. Since the beginning of the pandemic crisis, the resources that have been allocated directly to support Italian companies amount to about €35 billion. It is a figure that in ordinary times would have given a sprint to our country, but today it is completely inefficient for most of the recipients and will become ridiculous after the approval of the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. And the economic situation in this Christmas period is then set to worsen further. We would have expected more courage, that courage that would give a little more confidence to all Italians, who today feel overwhelmed by a sense of insecurity and distrust for the future. In fact, more support would be desirable for those companies that will continue to remain open, with a sharp change of direction, moving from the logic of the ristors to that of the reimbursements, compensating up to 70% of the losses and, secondly, reducing the fixed costs, as the European Commission has established. However, I would like to point out that, during the examination of this measure, a number of amendments tabled by the centre-right were accepted for the first time. This shows that our proposals are in line with reality. I hope that this path will continue in the exclusive interest of Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the government, fellow senators, to counter the spread of contagion, the government has since March implemented the blockade of social and economic activities also through what was in the first period a general lockdown; then, in the second wave, from September onwards, also through help, support and sharing with the regions, there has been a more selective lockdown. It is clear that such a choice is penalising for the country's economy. But if it serves to protect what is a primary and constitutionally guaranteed good, like health, then that's fine. But it must be clear that, in order to implement such a strategy, we need a necessary premise, namely that the State guarantees and compensates all those categories to which it has imposed forced closure; a closure that has actually generated budgetary losses and a dramatic situation that the economy and the companies involved are on at this time. To take charge of it also means to have the ability on the part of the Government to intervene quickly, or better, also to intervene in advance of the situation; in advance just to help to support the enterprises, the free professionals, the artisans and the families and in such way - as we said - to guarantee those that are the losses. This is the ratio of the so-called ristori decree today, that is, the possibility of guaranteeing immediate urgent measures. There are four decrees-restorers that have been issued, but none of these today - according to the same trade associations - has absolutely met the needs of economic activities in the current crisis; four decrees-restorers that have been launched in a short period of time from each other, demonstrating the difficulty that the Government has today in having a long-term vision of the problem of the economy, and continues to take only buffer measures. [[Applause]] If we add that there are also bureaucratic delays in these measures, then surely the damage is done. That's why professional associations, professional associations, VAT matches, traders and freelancers criticize the Government, which has been quick in closing down economic activities, from evening to morning, but which at this moment is not able to find solutions of refreshment and compensation so fast for those same activities that are currently suffering economic losses. [[Applause]] Let us not talk about the question that has opened up with the decrees of restoration on the Ateco codes, which have discriminated even more against the activities. I would not like to open a chapter, because we have been assured that we will be right about the Ateco codes as soon as possible. But this was also a bad choice from the government. It was also wrong to implement stewed measures. That is why we have reached four decrees, one after the other, which reduce the very scope of the measure if it is divided in such a way. They do not, therefore, arrive directly today at the categories affected by the damage. A confirmation of the inability of the Government also comes from the data we have recently received regarding the requests for financing and loans collected in a survey of the Bank of Italy. According to this survey, the demand for loans in the first half of 2020 throughout Italy has increased disproportionately. The Bank of Italy also tells us that the request for loans from the companies serves to finance the working capital and, therefore, it serves liquidity to the enterprises. The Bank of Italy's answer to this question is therefore clear. Then we ask ourselves a question: why do companies get into debt at a time of great difficulty? Surely today the companies are convinced that nothing will come from the state to cover their losses and, therefore, they themselves are in debt at a negative time. Businesses today do not trust the policies implemented by the Government and prefer to owe to be able to meet these shortcomings. [[Applause]] We will continue, in line with our consistency, to have a responsible attitude, also because we are following the mandate we have received because it is representative of the whole nation. At such a difficult time we are on the side of the country. Since the beginning of this dramatic pandemic, our choice has been unique: the interest of the country. That is why we also supported the vote last week on the budgetary deviation of another 8 billion and voted on it for responsibilities towards the country. Rather, it is the Government which, once again, demonstrates all its fragility by putting yet another question of confidence on these measures. [[Applause]] It's a demonstration of the government's problems. At this time, and above all in the last few hours, there is also a crisis in this Parliament that requires a government check. The problems are mostly on the other side. But we will continue with an attitude of responsibility, because we are interested that the country returns to sailing in safer waters and, above all, to look with confidence to the future. We are not interested and are not interested, therefore, in parliamentary tactics, as President Berlusconi wisely reminded us yesterday on the pages of the "Corriere" of the evening. [[Applause]] We have a vision of the country; we have it for the future and, therefore, we do not care about parliamentary techniques and tactics. We are always for the development and protection of today's less guaranteed categories, i.e. those of self-employment, professionals, commerce, crafts and small businesses. We are not satisfied with the government's work, but we will continue to bring our proposals. We will continue to do so - we are doing so already in the other branch of Parliament, in the House - with our proposals to the budget law: work and young people are the priorities to be helped with tax reductions. The fiscal white semester serves to give oxygen to businesses. We must look for all the solutions that guarantee the recovery of the country. In order to achieve this we must change course absolutely: no more welfare. Today we must focus exclusively on investment. We have the concrete proposals. If you're looking for us, you know where to find us because we, for sure, will always be on the side of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u20	Senator Marin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when - in the summer months - we were discussing the possible second juncture, the scientific community was divided and this has certainly created confusion. Now, the second wave was, despite the blissful naivety of some high professors who told us, as a drum roll, that the virus would be nuanced with the first summer sunsets. And so, in a country like Italy, which lives above all on services, exchanges, contacts and small businesses, our Ministers gave birth to Machiavellian two- or four-wheeled strategies and, instead of organizing an effective territorial service and involving the Regions in a targeted intervention, they thought to lighten tensions by dealing with subjects far from the Covid theme. They thought good holidays and meanwhile the peak of August shouted revenge. In November, on a pandemic relapse, it was understood that the mutation of this virus has a very antipathic characteristic: it does not have a very high mortality, but it does not have half measures, and therefore, if you don't like it, it sends you directly to intensive care, and intensive therapies - it is known - are still a luxury that belongs to those few regions that during the summer, instead of thinking whether to be a man or a woman, have strengthened hospitals. [[Applause.]] Now, in winter... [[Comments]] You tell me later. You tell me later, Alberto.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u22	Please contact the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u23	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). With winter and with Covid, in the North we also ended up underwater again: yet another blow for entrepreneurs. I quote all those who are not able to learn and have begun to teach, and every council experienced on the territories and loudly expressed by the governors was discarded as a void to lose. With the agenda that I had proposed it was asked to establish a simplified logistic zone on the border belt of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. You know, during the closing of the borders with Austria and Slovenia, VAT and excise revenues have more than doubled: numbers, gentlemen, are numbers; VAT and excise duties are numbers for the State, and not only for Friuli-Venezia Giulia and President Fedriga. This operation could have represented an objective opportunity for the harbour areas, tax benefits for the local companies, but above all it could be an attractive tool for the new investors, even foreigners. At this point, it is clear that not only health is not part of your potential, but not even the "accounts." Being healthy, gentlemen, is a physical and mental struggle, and being healthy and also entrepreneurs, at this moment, is a way of the Cross. Pessimism towards the future triggers phobias, collective panic, disobedience and loss of control over the masses. That's why people went down to the square to protest, from North to South; they all went down: from the right to the unions to the reddest left, and that should make you think. [[Applause.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I come to this House today to be heard not by those who cannot learn, but by those who look at us, listen and follow; I do so for all Italians who see themselves deceived by your benevolent and trusting smiles on live television. You're snake enchanters! But the Italians, gentlemen, are not snakes. No, gentlemen, the magic flute cannot be the only tool you have available to give real refreshment to a thousand year old and proud country like Italy. May God protect us, because you have not done so and are not doing so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u24	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, completing the process of examining these four decrees in one has not been easy, but this Parliament has also used this opportunity to incorporate rules that could make our country progress on the road to modernisation. On this road a beacon must be scientific research which, in the tragedy we are experiencing, has represented for us the light at the end of the tunnel. We have included two important rules in the measure we are debating today in favour of research. The first rule provides for the extension of PhDs in order to allow PhD students in the last year to complete the experiments necessary to close their thesis work. Our next goal, however, must be to adapt the doctoral grants to the minimum INPS contribution, because today the Italian PhD students work for thirty-six months, but they receive only thirty-three months of social security contributions. In order to adapt the grants to the minimum contribution it is necessary to increase each grant of 540 euros per year. Therefore, it takes €16 million to cover the 27,000 PhD students in progress. This adjustment for contributory purposes would certainly not fill the gap that exists today between the pay of Italian PhD students and that of other countries, but it would be an important step towards the recognition of the value of Italian PhD students and PhD students, who contribute to the functioning of the system of Italian universities and research centres. The second amendment approved, at my first signature, establishes a fund of 5 million euros dedicated to molecular diagnostics for the use of genomic profiling tests through next generation sequencing. Gene profiling is one of the most important innovations to customize therapies for cancer patients, because it allows to analyze multiple biomarkers on small samples and detect genetic alterations that, if present, represent targets of molecular therapies. Up to now, access to cancer gene profiling tests through next generation sequencing has been negatively influenced by available resources. Today, however, thanks to this dedicated fund, we guarantee fair access for cancer patients throughout the country. This emergency has shown us how important it is to protect fragile patients. The increased mortality of oncologic diseases due to late diagnosis or lack of controls, the absence of uniform diagnostic-therapeutic care pathways, the lack of telemedicine tools and non-accessibility to innovative drugs urge us to proceed urgently to the necessary structural and process modernisation of the National Health Service, promoting regional cancer networks with national coordination and oncology assistance homeland, as well as renewing and modernising the technological instrumental endowment for tumor diagnostics. And it is precisely in this direction that the measure we are discussing today marks an important milestone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u26	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u27	Mr President, about 19 billion for the ristori decree and, to the oppositions, amendments adopted for not even 450 million: that is the 0.02 periodical, a percentage that no longer allows the majority to ask for the usual hypocritical collaboration, if it then shows this attitude of arrogance and, above all, of inefficiency. Many, too many, categories and professions - on all, fragile workers and the world of disability - have not been protected or refreshed or even heartened. Briciole or just more for artisan and agricultural realities, for bars, for restaurants, for petrol stations, for streetwalkers, for the fashion world, for small and medium-sized enterprises born just during the period of the Covid-19; for the spas, for the spas, for the gyms and for those who spent, like them, money to get in order, but which you then changed, yourself, the same rules. Again, I am thinking of tourist and hotel businesses, although, for this latter category, I have noticed that you like prize lotteries. With the extraction of Article 180 of the I throw again decree, in fact, there was a winner: a hotelier in central Rome, who won a welcome, simple administrative penalty, although he never paid the tourist tax, for two million euros, from 2014 to 2018, and who, by chance, seems to know the so-called lawyer of the people. [[Applause]] In the meantime, there was no luck for those fined bartenders, who closed the business at 6 p.m. and a second. The government, so loyal to the observance of the rules, has not even been interested in averting a registration to Crif for those who cannot pay a debt: it cannot, it is not that it does not want to pay. While you close sportsbook clubs and leave open those for the draw of the Lotto in presence, you have also found time to invent the lottery of receipts. The intention for the state is to cash in, but also to make traders angry that, in three quarters of cases, have to adapt with 150 or 600 euros, obviously without refreshment. For the CGIA of Mestre, the state raffle will give money to the rich, because they have more spending capacity, as has already shown some senator of the Movimento 5 Stars. I, then, always wonder if it is difficult to download all the receipts, giving more value to Italian products, among other things. You guys had a fight, and you've got the crumbs in your face. As for the amendment proposing to extend the payment of excise duties on tobacconists from January to February 2021 to by July 2021, with debenza of interest, you rejected it because, at the signing of the League, but transformed the one signed by the Democratic Party into an agenda, even if identical. For desires and personalisms, this aforementioned crumb - for you only to boast - for tobacconists, which are about 50,000, with 120,000 employees, was true refreshment. In the decree, the hand then chose, to represent the various amendments to the refreshment for the fishermen, text 2 of a sub-amendment by Senator Pharaoh, with which both families and businesses are refreshed. And you want to do that with 500 million? The League had advanced a refreshment of 4.8 million, spread over three years, but it is evident that it is not a battle of the Government and that Senator Pharaoh is perhaps accustomed to the red shrimps and Argentines and does not know that a boat costs at least 700,000 euros. Yet, it was he who boarded the Sea-Watch, because for fourteen days he had been waiting for the landing of 42 migrants, already cured and saved. What about today? Today it does nothing, after one hundred and seven days, for the fishermen in Libya! Why don't you board now? Why don't you take with you Minister Bonafede, who is from Mazara del Vallo? [[Applause]] Rather, let us see whether Article 7 of the Italian-Libya Memorandum can be applied. Mr Senators, if Erdogan, in five days, obtains the release of seven of his citizens and Putin, in a few hours, of two Russian citizens, do you not believe that the Foreign Minister should give explanations and perhaps resign? We have a wimp government, without the ability to make choices and formulate strategies, as when it firmly voted the choice of bringing into the Tribunals who, like Minister Salvini, with high head, has always defended with honor and firmness the men and women, who proudly represented. You have also rejected a refreshment amendment to the health professions, because of course this is not part of your programme either. I conclude by telling you of the majority that you are opening our children's piggy bank and you are managing the money in a confused, inappropriate and conditioned manner. Try to have respect, pride and ability, for the good of the Italians, but have above all the humility to understand that you are not up to the task. You should get out of the chair! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u29	I urge my fellow Members not to distract themselves and not to approach unstoppably in "crows."
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u30	Mr President, I will try to remain on the agenda: I say this without any controversy, but in the speeches I have listened carefully in these minutes I have heard the most varied issues mentioned. This is a very complex and complicated measure, because it brings together a series of emergency measures, with the aim of restoring many and many sectors, which have been affected by this need and this need because of the pandemic, which forces us to prevent many economic activities, in a continuous change of closed areas. One of the greatest difficulties of the choices that the Government - and I shall then talk about Parliament - had to take forward is that of not adopting measures which, by and large, were of interest to everyone. I always listen carefully to my colleagues, but I would like us to tell each other once and for all something, so that it remains written and delivered, not to the story, but at least to the chronicle. If we cancel a tax for everyone or if we give everyone a refreshment going to cancel a tax for those who have not lost income or maybe have earned it (there are in fact sectors that, following the pandemic, have evidently increased their productive capacity, like, for example, the producers of masks), if we go to restore sectors not affected, it is as if we take resources from all Italian citizens, maybe even those in difficulty to give it absolutely not need. This would be a dramatic injustice at a time of crisis like this. Then, go to identify punctually, with the necessary measures and with the variations related to the closing and opening of the different areas, who to refresh and how it is a damn complex theme. The members of the Government have certainly concentrated on this exercise: here is the Undersecretary of War, who has perhaps spent more than a few days and a few hours on this, together with many other colleagues, in particular those of the Budget Commission, who in all these weeks have tried to correct and improve the measure on time. It is a struggle and it is much easier to propose to cancel taxes and recognize the refreshments to all, but acting as we are trying to do so we will perform an act of justice, trying to reach those who need it. As far as I can say and because of my specific competence, particularly in the field of culture, I have to admit to this measure - and this is the meaning of my speech today - that we are achieving a truly important result. Since the beginning of this pandemic, in fact, there has been a very difficult sector, such as that of workers and businesses in the cultural sector. It is a very difficult sector, because it is messy, without specific legislation and large welfare instruments, full of regulatory irregularities, injustices and "holes"; well, for this sector we have tried, progressively, to find a way to cover all these people, all these workers. We must not think so much only of the artists and even less of the famous artists, who are certainly not the problem; the problem are those thousands of technicians and operators who work, for example, in the field of graphics or promotion. I am referring to the ecosystem of the work of culture, which is a complex, articulated, variegated ecosystem and which contains in itself an element of unordinable disorder. And yet all these people, all these women and all these men for the first time have been fully recognized as being workers and not people who enjoy doing something in life. We have tried and succeeded not only in getting them resources to cover the unworked periods, because of course they are among the most affected, but also - and with this intervention really very important progress has been made - to progressively recover all those who had been excluded from the measures of the previous months. There were in fact clear regulatory contrasts: if, for example, it appeared that a worker in the sector had worked for a few days (because different jobs can be crossed) he risked losing all coverage of the measure for months. All this has been done and we must recognise it today, just as funds have been increased that are in the Ministry's disposition and that are going on time to cover this and that sector that was excluded. Are we satisfied? I heard exactly that in the previous speeches. Clearly, we are not satisfied. First of all, satisfaction is a feeling that has nothing to do with the situation we are in, because this is not a situation in which we can be satisfied. But above all, the goals we must achieve are still many and there is so much effort. In this area we think that we will only achieve the complete objective when we have approved the rules we have tried to call the statute of artists, namely the statute of workers in the sector. However, we cannot fail to recognise that, with regard to the point at which we were, to the existing regulations and also to the economic fatigue, but not only to the economic one, there is a sensitivity and attention on the part of this Government and there is a struggle on the part of Parliament to try to find all the ways to intervene and to reach everyone and everyone. Mr President, I believe that in this general debate it is important to give this kind of message. All of us parliamentarians receive messages, emails, messages on WhatsApp, phone calls and meet people on the street; some of them explain their situation, their drama, their concerns; they tell us what has happened in these months and ask us to understand what will happen in those coming. I am thinking of the friends who work in the field of travelling entertainment, who are among the most difficult categories and for whom we have planned economic interventions, but who need much more, because they are in a very special situation; they are people who live on the streets of their profession and who have children and girls who go to school in different places. I am also thinking of streetwalkers and those who work in fairs. In short, there are many people who are worried and in difficulty; to all these people we must choose which message to give and we must choose it in a choral way. We must tell them that the Italian Parliament is working together, because many of the measures I had proposed were adopted by means of first-signed amendments by colleagues from the opposition. I consider this to be a good thing; we had both posed some problems and rightly chose to accept the demands that come from oppositions. So what message do we want to send? Do we want to tell them that we are trying to solve problems all together or do we want to scare them, alarm them and tell them that no one here is taking care of them? I believe that this second choice does not do the good of either the majority or the opposition, but it does damage to politics and it also harms an objective realization of reality: all of us here have been making a huge effort, since last February, to try to take care of everything and everyone. And then we'll go on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u31	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u32	Mr President, I am telling you the truth, I entered this House two and a half years ago, after my experience as a local administrator, and I have always looked with great admiration at the role of Parliament. After two and a half years, I often wonder where we are. I ask myself this because of the dignity of the role of the Parliamentary and the Parliament: what role do these Assemblies play, the House and the Senate? We have approved the reduction in the number of Members, but if things were to go on like this, we could probably have gone too far: at this point, I would have made the proposal to close everything, which was then what a part of this majority had in mind: one vote, one person; everyone at home, but who cares. When I say these things, I do so with great regret, Mr President, because citizens are often asked to rely on a serious policy, a policy that is also being debated hard. We are talking about a decree-restoration laws that should do the interests of the business community and families. I have heard the rapporteurs say that with great good faith they have spoken in this House, but I understand their difficulty. I thank the Undersecretary, who is present here on a stable plan, but the Government is totally absent. There is a relationship of supposition towards Parliament, which is the origin of the Government. Instead here we think completely upside down, of the series, as I often say: we are a harp that also gives a bit of annoyance. All these people who stand up and speak: a deadly boredom for the President of the Council and its Ministers. Moreover, what I am saying is proved by the numbers: of the approximately 18 billion which is the sum of the refreshments, Parliament has grabbed a loaf of bread, or about 600 million euros. Two weeks of work,'small and short', whole nights and statements of the kind 'we have worked', 'great commitment of Parliament', 'we have accepted your proposals'. I apologise but, of EUR 18 billion, EUR 600 million has been distributed in Parliament. [[Applause.]] I almost feel sorry for you, because I don't feel sorry for anyone, but I also feel a little pity for the friends of the majority, who also have to prove to those who are out of here. I am telling you the truth, Mr President, and not to disrespect you: I speak more for those who look at us, because here the words we say fall into nothing; everyone does his own business and three quarters are not there; then they interrupt in a polite way. I've heard nonsense, but I've been quiet all morning. That's the way it is, and you're all happy and happy - a wonderful thing. Even we are concerned about obstructionism and someone called the opposition "becera." But at least let us say something. You give yourself every morning of the hammering on your fingers to shut up and not to say what you really think of this majority and this government; at least let us say it. Maybe you forgot what's going on outside. I give you two numbers, if you are interested: 41.8% of companies - this morning's figure - have used the integration fund, which is not that it pays someone else: we pay, of course. 15% of companies at the end of the year will close and will not reopen. I repeat, 15%: with 4 million VAT matches, you make the check. Since the end of January, when the redundancies stop, there will be 1.5 million more unemployed, who are going to add to those 15 million unemployed already in our country. The other news is that companies that remain open have lost two thirds of their turnover. For those who have never worked a minute, probably what I say is a trivial thing; but for those who in life have to deal with the end of the month, with the salaries to pay and with the responsibilities to their employees and collaborators, it seems serious to me. But you have really done an important thing: you have even spent yourself on a beautiful 5 million marc for the bus discovered by some of your friends. Now I say you have to be good. I must congratulate you because going to find 150 buses on the 25,000 tourist buses and snap a nice 5 million chip is to be applauded, so I ask colleagues of the Forza Italia Group to give a round of applause to you of the majority because you have been outstanding. [[Applause]] And don't be ashamed either, probably because they didn't tell you. That's what a colleague of the League said yesterday, and I'll tell you today. But you have made a great recovery, in fact I have felt a certain satisfaction, on the issue of the 1,000 euros to the seasonal, a beautiful people who have right to it. Then we discovered that those who have Naspi and those who feel unemployment, as if they were rich people who travel around the world, have no right. I wanted to remind you - I have said this several times in this House - that, as far as seasonal workers are concerned, those who worked nine months worked four months, those who worked four worked two months and those who worked two did not work. Now, do you not think that those who have worked four months and receive a small unemployment benefit have solved the problem of the year? In fact, those who work four months at 1,200 euros per month, then receive unemployment for sixty days. Remember the famous reform of the friend who is not there today, who comes sometimes, says two things, and then leaves? Do you remember her? Well, these people are starving today. You think you made a masterpiece? People are angry, and that's normal. Of course you must have thought that the income of citizenship thinks about it. Well, I'll tell you something: these gentlemen are not entitled to that either. It could have been an opportunity for which I was hoping that we could say that we had finally made it, but no, they are not even entitled to take citizenship income. Restaurants, bars, hotels, shops, the question of bathing is an absolute shame and the government pretends nothing. When you talk to him about the beaches, he turns to the other side. [[Applause]] It's really embarrassing. Send Members - I am not talking about senators - who go to the meetings of important trade associations, and to the question of the humble senator of the Republic who speaks to you, who said that Forza Italia would obviously vote for the repeal of Article 49 of the code of navigation and for the recognition of the Charter of Nice, answer - being of the PD - that they cannot speak on behalf of their Group. But then why are they taking part in the meetings? To waste time? [[Recalls of the President]] In conclusion, I am not talking about the Ateco codes because the issue would have become really ridiculous if it didn't involve companies that won't take a dime, not even those that took something before. I'd like to give you numbers, even if someone thinks I've given them up to now, but believe me, I've always tried to be true. I heard in the debate the other day, in front of the President-in-Office, illustrious representatives of the majority who launched warnings to the President-in-Office of the Council: Be careful, because I won't vote if you don't do... I won't brag if you don't say............................................................................................................................ Well, let me tell you something: this morning I got help from my niece in middle school, because I couldn't get there alone, and I counted up to 163, which is quite a number. These are the numbers that a center-right government would have with some of the majority that probably said: 'Cause I'm gonna... We're here. We're ready. If you want to send this government home, there's all the conditions to do it. And if I've come to count to 163, I have a feeling that some of you are also able to do so. The sooner we send this government home, and the sooner we probably solve the country's problems. Happy birthday to you all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u33	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say members of the Government because we are talking about so many billions, but I only see the Undersecretary of War and thank you very much for the presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u35	The Government is still present.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u36	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, but since we are talking about so many billions, if there had been a few more members, it would have been better. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go on, Senator Saponara. SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Many considerations have been made about this decree, or rather about this union of decrees, but let me add something to what has already been said. In fact, more than making considerations, I would like to ask two questions, starting from the fact that with the first decree-restoration laws of 28 October, followed by the restori- bis of 9 November, the restori- ter of 24 November, the restori-c of 30 November, some 20 billion were put on the field. Looking back at history, 100 billion has been talked about with the decrees care Italy, relaunch and August, all with four budget deviations voted also by us oppositions. Well, the first question I'd like to ask is whether anyone in the government would explain to me whether we're serious here or whether we're playing Monopoly. I ask this because this is a question that is being asked to me every day by those who are still waiting for it and by those who have not yet seen a euro of cash integration. I am talking about fathers and mothers who, if it were not for the solidarity that has moved and moves autonomously in many of our territorial realities, at this time they would not know how to put together lunch with dinner. [[Applause]] We are not talking about VAT consignments, which are forced to close because if something has been done, it is clear that with 600 or 1,000 euros you can't pay the expenses and live more and we have done more on this front than one proposal. And if even one of these had been heard, perhaps many would have avoided the closure of the business. I refer, for example, to the moratorium on bank loans, to making tax credit immediately available, to convert credits into non-refundable contributions, to cancel fixed contributions for the self-employed, to postpone the deadline for November, but not for ten days, to cut VAT rates, to compensate for the fixed costs of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let us move on to the second question that I would like to ask, which concerns the much-so-so-called cooperation which you are asking of opposition at this difficult time. Here, I would like you to clarify what cooperation means to you: perhaps you intend to accept every decision you make without any comments or alternative proposals? [[Applause]] This absolutely cannot be, because cooperation means reasoning together on the decisions to be taken, listening to the voice of the citizens and starting from there to carry out proposals. I would like to point out to you that this we of the League have always done so with great meticulousness and responsibility, translating in amendments those requests for rescue that come to us from families, workers, businesses, free professionals, traders, artisans, all those who with much dignity and determination have sent our country forward and now, with much shame, are almost forced to ask charity to the State of which they are citizens. Well, our demands and proposals have been reduced in this decree to 380 million out of the 8 million total allocated with the last budgetary deviation, a crumb at the end of the day. You certainly cannot say that we have not had a cooperative spirit and the facts show this. I can give you the example of the Commission of which I am a member, the Culture Commission, in which, as an opposition, we have shared and voted in favour of the comments and recommendations contained in the opinion drawn up by the majority members, making a commitment to turn them into amendments. Little or nothing has been accepted and so you have disappointed your majority who sits on the benches of this House and I am sure that a large part of it has been embarrassed by this attitude of closure to the proposals of the whole Parliament, even that part that supports you and not just that of the oppositions. We have, for example, proposed to derogate from the closure of all those bookstores located in shopping centres, which are clearly disadvantaged compared to the others. No, you can't do it, you can't derogate because it goes against what the DPCM provides, which in this way leads to discrimination between exhibitors of the same type of products, in this case the books, just at a time when there could be some gain for the bookstores. And yet, always remaining in the field of culture and non-onerous amendments, we also asked to derogate from the openings of the places of culture because we firmly believe that with the reservation and quota of the entrances could be avoided the closure of museums, libraries, cinemas and theatres. Not that either. These are just examples to tell you that when you talk about collaboration, you must then specify what kind of collaboration you are talking about, if then our proposals, onerous or not burdensome, are always punctually cashed out and declared inadmissible or without coverage. I honestly do not know with this closing attitude towards oppositions where you want to go and what you want the Italians to believe. But I know one thing: Italian citizens can no longer make it and need economic support at this time, but above all structural measures that allow them to continue to work because work gives dignity and does not make them subjects of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u37	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u38	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this 2020 which is about to end will remain indelible in our lives, marked by an enemy that only a year ago no one imagined that it would appear before us so aggressive and unscrupulous. Coronavirus has overturned our lives, disrupting habits, habits, customs, awareness, moods, fears and priorities. The pandemic has also upset the life of this House, forcing us to review the work as never before. The worrying development of the health emergency has required more than one intervention from the Government for the adoption of further and stricter measures to combat and contain the contagion. As we have seen, the virus runs fast, but fortunately we have seen at work a government that has tried to respond as quickly. A speed certified by the data of 7 December 2020; the non-refundable contributions and the resources provided by the Revenue Agency amount to more than 9 billion, with a huge number of beneficiaries equal to 2.4 million VAT consignments. I remember that the ristori decree we are debating is worth as much as 18 billion altogether. These are basically four decrees in one, seen and considered that, unfortunately, new closures have occurred since the first text was adopted. The measure reaches to touch even 173 types of different activities, proof of how deflagrating the coronavirus for our production fabric. There is, however, one of the areas that I would like to dwell on and that of tourism. A segment devastatingly hit by the Covid-19; according to the National Tourism Agency at the end of 2020 there will be a frightening drop of Italian and foreign tourists equal to 49 percent compared to 2019, with 57 million less visitors and with a collapse of 186 million for overnight stays. A fall in tourist spending in the order of 71 billion. There is no refreshment, there is no cover for these numbers. It is useless to keep blowing on fire on such a theme. He's trying to deal with it. These are numbers that tremble our wrists and give us the measure of the catastrophe in which one of the sectors that in recent years had seen a positive sign has been thrown out. [[Applause.]] For this reason, with all the limitations of the case, the Government and the majority have produced the maximum effort to give way to live and protect themselves from the shock wave so violent that it has invested tourism. Among the main maneuvers that have been included in the decree ristori-c there is the compensation of 1.000 euros for seasonal workers of tourism, thermal baths and entertainment, who have been forced involuntarily to cease the employment relationship during this period. In addition, specific attention has been paid to the tour operators' travel agencies segment, for which additional appropriations of EUR 400 million are provided, to be added to those already allocated. Then there is the 20 million call for the segment of tourist guides and tour guides and more than 100 million are already allocated to support the hotel and spa sector. Among the measures of the decree-restoration laws is also provided a refund of vouchers for live shows scheduled from 24 October and until January 2021 which were again blocked for the rules of contrast to the Covid. He tried to do what he could. However, this black 2020 for tourism must lead us to reflect on the need to design long-range projects with such an important vision of this sector, which is all too often neglected by politics despite the expansion and its long-term renewal to be completed. If green conversion and investment for competitiveness and innovation will play a lion's part in the recovery fund, tourism should be put within this great debate because of the will of the path to be drawn for the next ten to twenty years. Personally, I remain convinced that an epochal facility such as that of the 110 percent superbonus for energy efficiency and the anti-seismic improvement of buildings should also be extended to the receptive and hotel sector, precisely to project these structures definitively in the third millennium. It would be an unparalleled, high-multiplier opportunity and I hope that the Government will work with the utmost effort to achieve it. Today, however, we reiterate the need to bring home this composite decree-law as a shock absorber to withstand the impact of this very hard 2020. When we talk, we preferred the facts, and the text that we are going to fire is the best certificate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u39	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General: 'Procurade 'e moderate, barones, sa tyranny, chi si no, pro vida mia, torrades a pe' on earth! Declarada est already sa gherra contra de sa prepotentia, and cominzat sa passionia in su pobulu a non missa. The translation is: dear barons, try to moderate your tyranny, otherwise, even if I lose my life, you will return to the dust; in the people patience begins to lack. These are the words of a Sardinian magistrate, Francesco Ignazio Mannu, who represented in a heartfelt way the rebellion of the Sardinian people in 1794 led by another magistrate, Giovanni Maria Angioy, when the Savoy feudal men were expelled from Sardinia. These verses, which constitute the anthem of Sardinia, also represent a heartfelt appeal in defense of the Sardinian people, because all too often it has been and is forgotten by the central governments. However, I would like to stress the fact that this measure is extremely important and has also received many good results, but it has done so thanks to the contribution made by the rapporteur, by the members of the Commissions and by the Undersecretary who has followed all the work, to whom I cannot but renew my personal esteem and thanks for what has been done. However, I must stress that, after the disasters that have occurred in Sardinia following the events that have added to an already very serious situation, with an economy now absolutely destroyed (now Sardinia is on its knees), after the damage caused by recent weather disasters, the Government has not grasped the scope and gravity of this disaster. We Sardinian Senators have tabled an amendment, just to deal with the situation that has arisen since the disasters of 28 November. There have been good words and condolences for the victims, so much solidarity and chatter, but concrete facts have not yet been seen, as I had pointed out in my speech in this House. I hope it will not be said to me that this measure is intended for refreshments because, as I said, the Sardinian disasters have been added to the tragic situation in Sardinia, after the summer season, one of the fulcrum of the Sardinian economy, was a total disaster announced and indeed verified. I am referring to the very serious damage to agriculture caused by bad weather, which occurred not only in Bitti, but throughout Sardinia. I hope that I will not be told that the amendment tabled was irrelevant, because unfortunately I must stress that this is the discomfort I find myself in when I talk about this measure. In fact, amendments have been introduced which in fact have nothing to do with the pandemic; just think of the amendment that has been approved to allow those who had already taken twice the examination for appointment as state prosecutor to be able to support it for the third time. It was then attempted to introduce, once again, the possibility of raising the retirement age of judges from seventy to seventy-two years, masking it with a similar amendment, perfectly correct and just, which was intended for doctors. In fact, it cannot be denied that amendments have been tabled and approved in the Commission which have nothing to do with the subject covered by this measure. I must say that I was a little surprised that in the Commission the area I am dealing with effectively and which I am trying to make a very modest contribution to, namely justice, has once again been substantially marginalised and little attention has been paid to it, with the adoption of a series of amendments which, by chance, came from a single political force, while those of common sense which we had proposed, which could actually have shortened and in some way made a good contribution to the better functioning of justice, have all been disregarded. I'm still gonna be carrying the interests and needs of my land. I will still have the interests of the Sardinians, but I will say that patience is really starting to fail. We soon have further opportunities to pay due attention to Sardinia, which objectively - I repeat - is in a situation of economic discomfort never seen before today. I hope that the Government will take this opportunity to demonstrate that we are still part of Italy, but for what I have seen and what has been announced so far objectively does not seem to me that we are on the right track. Therefore, once again renewing the esteem for the Undersecretary that I have known for a long time and I know how much commitment he puts in the things he does, I ask you to look a little'more to Sardinia and the Sardinians, because they really need it at the moment, otherwise it will be difficult to continue to look - I have already said in this House - at a Government that fails and regularly forgets that Sardinia is still part of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u42	Mr President, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, representative of the Government, in these difficult days, close to the Christmas festivities, we are called upon to express our views on the measures taken by this Government towards the Italian production system. To do so, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a double analysis: one before you analyse the problem of the short and medium term, and a second which looks more into the future. I want to make it clear from the outset that the subject of restors is particularly complex and difficult and in no way must it risk being addressed with the sole aim of controversy. The entrepreneurial and manufacturing activity of our country is a heritage of which Italy must be proud. We are one of the most important economies in the world and our manufacturing skills are recognized in every corner of the globe. We must be equally clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the only way we can get out of this crisis, which still does not have a certain deadline today, is to support the business world. A support that must not find any difference between the big companies and the small company, between a chemical sector and an agricultural sector, between the craftsman and the trader, between the restaurateur and the hairdresser: all these categories today, as never before, have the need, but above all the right, to be heard, supported and helped. Short- and medium-term support - and here I am addressing the first point - must not mean the distribution of money to the rain, as has often been the case in recent months, with useless, if not bad, results. We need an immediate, thoughtful and well-built plan. In fact, we have reached a time when the country must be supported both on the supply side and on the demand side for products. In this regard, I cannot fail to say that some of the measures taken on your political agenda have been designed in that direction. I recognize, in fact, that some of the trade associations of the productive world - not all of them for the truth - have also welcomed what you have proposed. However - and here I am addressing the second point - there are still many aspects that need to be clarified and the country, today as never before, needs a forward-looking project that looks at the coming years and challenges. The impression, sometimes, is that you are too busy trying to find a way to reach the end of the legislature and not to relaunch the production system for the next few years. Colleagues, just today, in these minutes, is about to begin in my city the annual general assembly of the Brescia industrialists. It is an important event, given the manufacturing vocation of the province that I am proud to represent in this Parliament. The meeting, attended by, among others, the Minister for Economic Development Stefano Patuanelli and the Minister for European Affairs Vincenzo Amendola, was presented by President Pasini, who will talk about three issues that he considers fundamental for the business world, namely solidarity, commitment and pride. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to steal these issues from my Brescia business friends, because from here we must start again and concentrate on the government's next economic activity. This must be the country's political agenda for the next few months. Our companies that are not in extreme difficulty today in recent years have invested in technology and bet on innovation and research and are even less so those that have had the ability to internationalize their business. From here we have to start again: we have to think about the need to support policies that can project our activities and bet on the future. The production sector calls for targeted support, which allows companies to continue to produce and work with confidence. I do not know to you, colleagues, but what so many entrepreneurs I go to keep asking for is not money, but courageous choices and decisions that allow every entrepreneur to continue his business. Nobody denies the health emergency, but it is obvious that today we must also think about the economic and social one. How do you do that? For the future, we are thinking of solutions that have the capacity to support all industrial sectors and not just a few particular sectors. We have seen, in fact, in recent weeks the exclusion of many small retail businesses, which in the future will certainly resist with extreme difficulty. It is undeniable, in fact, that the smallest realities are today the most suffering compared to a picture of the entire Italian economy that is already serious. These activities are those that have made massive use of Cassa Integrazione, that often - indeed, almost always - is anticipated by the same enterprises. It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen, not to neglect any sector, because a small piece forgotten within the manufacturing chain could have a domino effect with devastating consequences. It is necessary to have the courage to adopt policies that stimulate productive activity and, at the same time, the intersection of supply and demand. Only with courageous choices will we have the chance to save the Italian productive world. It's not just about their survival, it's about that of our entire Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u44	Mr President, I must say that I am not satisfied with this measure, and not because of the Secretary of State for War here, whom I have been counting for years, but because, from the point of view of the rest of the world, there are enormous deficiencies. There is no specific initiative on companies that can contribute to the economic growth of our country. Then there are whole categories of abandoned workers, destroyed. I am referring, for example, to what happened at Milan Malpensa airport, where 80% of passenger losses have now been recorded, with a huge impact on car rentals, garages and parking spaces. There is no point in quoting the Ateco codes, but they didn't have anything. This means creating and continuing to create a not indifferent disparity between individuals and workers, depending on their position. I want to speak on two issues: one of method, the other of merit, although the first is equally important. I am specifically addressing the President of the Pesco Budget Commission and my Group's Parent Group, as well as the other Leaders: we must avoid the scumbag that has now been achieved in the evaluations that take place in the Commissions, where there are a huge number of amendments that have been pointed out and not dealt with (not on their own responsibility, but on the basis of a practice that has been established in recent years). [[Applause.]] We must avoid this filth and return to a system that each of you - not Senator Pesco, perhaps - will remember. We remember what happened with the financial law, when each of us, in the evening, listening to the radio, heard for ten to twelve consecutive days the evaluation of each individual amendment in the Chamber. That is the logic, otherwise there is the loss of dignity not only of this House, not only of a branch of Parliament, but of each of us, when we pretend that we have done a job and that we have taken into account problems which, in fact, have not been examined. Both to give some examples, with regard specifically to justice and the rules contained in the measure, thanks to some amendments by the majority, certain aspects of the appeal process have been retained, but a number of problems remain - also on the same appeal process, as on the electronic dispatch of judgments or measures - which could have found a different solution, much more coherent. A number of negative aspects could therefore have been removed if there had been the possibility of dialogue and specific examination in the Commission. Colleagues, it is not enough to provide that the Commissions to which the measures are not assigned may express opinions; instead, there should be the possibility of specific action. When I read some measures, I wondered if it was ever possible for people who had a trial experience, such as judges, lawyers and parties, to write these things without considering the fundamental principles. I'll just bring you back one aspect. At the beginning of the pandemic it was thought that the judge should stay at the judicial office, while within a few weeks or months it was said that it was not possible for the judges to remain alone in the courthouse and that they should be able to work remotely, at home. This means having destroyed the orality of the process, which is strongly connected to its concentration and expedition. Forgotten the fundamental rules also led to saying that it is not necessary for the board to be made in the presence of judges, which results in an abnormal situation in terms of the ability to understand the process and the value of the meeting and discussion. Like some of you, I have been part of thousands of board chambers, where there has never been any discussion about the interpretation of what had happened at the hearing: about the ability of lawyers to represent the reality of the facts. What happens? When there was only the exchange of memories, on this interpretation many times it became difficult for there to be unanimity in the college. [[Applause]] That is why it is absurd to say that we are going to overcome everything and that the President of the Court will decide whether or not to do the remote trial, or whether or not Parliament will decide whether or not to do the remote trial. No, there must be a possibility for the citizen, as it is a fundamental freedom. Remember that the process is based on the availability of the parties, so there needs to be a need. Each judge must be limited by the necessity underlying the fact that the citizen wants to be judged in accordance with the procedural rules that guarantee fundamental rights. 13:08 (Following Caliendo). The rule therefore cannot fail to provide for what the Council of State, with an order of 21 April 2020, has decided to establish, that is, that it is not possible a co-arted trial, because the user of justice must always have the possibility to say that he does not want his case to be decided immediately, but that there may be a regular debate and, after the pandemic is over, do it in a certain way. This is part of fundamental rights. [[Call the president back.]] The Council of State said that before... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, let me just say one more thing. We've reached very low levels. The judge of peace cannot do the trial electronically, while the minister of justice comes to say something out of any imagination. The honorary judiciary - says the Minister - has the aim to contain the number of togati, or the loss of prestige...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u45	Senator Caliendo, I really invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u46	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). The Minister probably doesn't know what the honorary judiciary is and what it has done in our country. Mr President, you will especially remember, even before the judge of peace, the contribution that the conciliator has made to our justice. [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u47	Senator Caliendo, you have to conclude, don't start a new topic.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u48	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u49	Mr President, we are about to put to the vote one of the most important measures for the nation since the post-war period and, for better or worse, in this disastrous 2020, dominated by an invisible enemy, Coronavirus or Covid-19, with serious health, economic and social impacts. Such measures, if managed with foresight, would lay the foundations for a radical, profound, true and possible restart for our country, detached from another virus, that of bureaucracy, slowness and lack of a strategic vision. Just to name a few: a re-launched decree was voted, but the relaunch was not there, and a simplification decree (which, in my opinion, should have been the most important), but simplification was not there. Just ask the world out of here, who observes us, composed of Italians, people, workers and entrepreneurs. Now we are here to discuss and vote the decree of rest, inexorably ineffective, because it will still leave out many categories, reported by the League and the center-right, but not taken into consideration by a presumptuous and vain Head of Government, determined to annihilate the measures strongly desired by the then component of Government, the League, with its most powerful and strong man, Matteo Salvini. It is a perverse naval battle, whose goal is to sink: the flat tax has been sunk; and the security decree? Is that sunk, too? It will be the vote of the next few hours that says so. The strong will to sink Matthew Salvini, with every instrument and every means, is then before everyone's eyes, but you will not succeed: we will not allow it. [[Applause]] Suffice it to say that, in the course of the hearings, the categories to which I have asked myself whether they were in favour of the fiscal year all replied yes. It would have been a model of simplification, no one should have applied. It would have been a model of refreshment, because it would have involved everyone. He would have had the covers, if they had not been watered down in what some call marchettes, but that I, in order not to offend anyone, will call "packets," those on his shoulders. The fiscal white year, however, comes from the League, from Matteo Salvini, and the presumptuous and vain cut him off in the bud. I conclude my speech with an example of the effectiveness of this Government (which I call "exemplary," of course with an ironic comment). After listening to Mr Beginini's speech on the measures contained in the Order of Restoration concerning women who are victims of violence, let me give you an example of the effectiveness and speed of this Government. During the examination of the last budget law, a bill was voted and inserted, in the form of an amendment, which - I repeat again - was the result of the work of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars and introduced the obligation of exposure of the number antiviolence 1522. In the budget law, which was voted on and approved, this measure still sees its failure to apply a year later, and yet, by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, a cartel was envisaged within 60 days. Then we stand here, after a year, to define a sign, that of the anti-violence number 1522, which could have been prepared by the last of the officials of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] I therefore call on the government representative to carry out these requests, which are not my own, nor the League, but the entire Parliament, which has voted on a rule that meets the women who are victims of violence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u50	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, (if there is one more, but there is still one, and I believe that we have also been very cooperative during the examination in the Commission), ladies and gentlemen, I think that we all remember the 2018 budget law. It was a great battle, during which the League in the first place, together with the then government ally, sought in every way to do what it thought important, namely to be able to approve a deviation, in addition to the one allowed, necessary to restart the country and to give it momentum. We all remember how it went, that is that we were not allowed, except for a very small part, to do some things that we had written in our government contract. It was clear that for Germany, France and other countries of the European Union the waterline within which Italy was to be located was exactly one inch below our noses, even to prevent us from getting better, since we are certainly better than the others. So, with a little finger pressure, they could put us under the water when they wanted it. Then there was the change of government (on the fact that it was right or wrong everyone will have their positions) and, a little later, the misfortune of the Covid came, meaning that misfortunes never come alone. At that point, there was the green light to a river of money, deviation after deviation (we speak in fact of 108 billion euros), decree after decree and recovery after recovery. These are billions of euros that, in all probability, in every other country of the world (as some are demonstrating in a particular way), would have given the opportunity to secure the economy in the early phase of the pandemic and to try to plan the future. In fact, it was clear that there would be a second wave, with the consequent repercussions and with great difficulties for the entire productive world, linked both to employee work, and to small, medium and large enterprise. Instead, we now have a country on its knees, which is probably not satisfied, for example because 25% of the overall losses are for small and medium-sized enterprises, 350,000 of which are at risk of being closed down, or the fixed costs for the restaurateur of an average city are about 25,000 euros, while we have given them crumbs. Evidently, therefore, no one is happy. You have always been able to justify these things, but I don't think so. It is also clear that there is no demonstration of the ability to plan, since today we are voting on a measure that concerns the decrees one, two, three and four (I could also say this to the Santillo, in Latin: "unis", bis, tris, etc.). However, we are in a situation that denotes a lack of programming, because first we closed, then reopened, then, in anticipation of closure, refreshed. But then you realized - because we told you it was so - that you forgot the human world, and then you decided to make a second decree. Even in that case, however, you have noticed that you have forgotten the human world, and then you have made a decree of restoration three; but since you have noticed that, even in that case, you have forgotten the human world, you have issued the decree of restoration four. Attention, however, because someone said yesterday: "We will make the decree restaurants five". You're crazy! You have the ability not to plan a blessed nothing. From this point of view, therefore, you are those of assistance. Why assistance? It is not that, if I refresh someone, I do an act of great responsibility and offer a chance of growth to the country. No: I give him only a small tip; you have assisted, therefore, not investments. Now Minister Di Maio said he wanted to propose a white year for taxes in 2021. It would take a general applause here, because we said about eight months ago that a white year had to be spent, that taxes had not to be collected and that the country had to be secured first. Long live God, it's come to us: let's give him a big applause! [[Applause]] I hope that the Government and, in particular, the Minister for Economic Affairs will take note of this great intuition. Dear friends obsessed with Salvini and the man in command alone, I give you news. By now you have understood it and, in a particular way, a man of Florence even more: man alone in command is there, sitting there. DPCM after DPCM, one at a time, does what it wants. He tricked you all. [[Applause),]] in particular the former friends (some, of course, still are) of the five-stars. They took a man and told him to be the leader of the party. However, since that man there today is located in the center-left area, I would ask myself a question, addressed to all those inside: eye, because that one there, in a little while, will merge a party and the Movimento 5 Stars will be called to choose whether to remain such or become Movement 5 Count. That man of Florence today probably poses questions of trust and says "I don't know, let's see. Mr Bellanova - this is funny, come on - cannot attend the meeting today, because he is in Brussels. Didn't you know that Minister Bellanova was supposed to go to Brussels? For God's sake, there are things you do at the last second, maybe without knowledge. What does that man who's sitting there, who should be the people's lawyer and who said he was, but who's nobody's lawyer? He's in that election space. Dear friends of Italy Alive, wake up! That's your space, and I think the leader Marcucci has sensed it, too. One more thing: cashback. Yesterday someone made a quotation of Osho's sentence, extraordinary, because you took it out on people, after sending her to do the shopping; you told her that if she had gone shopping, after you would give her the money. You're extraordinary. Every day more than the President of the Council remains sitting in that chair - and the responsibility is yours - he is cursed for this country. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u52	If there is anyone who has something to say, lift your finger and let us give him the word; otherwise I beg you to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u54	Mr President, for the first time we are called upon to discuss and adopt four decrees in one; one aspect, this one, which demonstrates the exceptional nature of the period we are living and which we must face with determination and seriousness, in response to the Covid emergency. The ristori decree introduces a further series of measures aimed at consolidating the state's response to the economic and social consequences of the epidemic. Over the past few weeks, colleagues from the Budget and Finance Commissions, rapporteurs, Presidents and Undersecretaries have spent an important part of their energy trying to reach an agreement on the changes to be made to the original texts of the Decree-Laws. My personal thanks go to them, in the belief that greater effort of unity is needed to face the times we are experiencing. In recent months the words of the President of the Republic have resonated several times, which go in the sense of greater unity and compactness at this time so complicated and painful in our history. Those words of the President of the Republic must be a warning for all of us, especially for those who in recent weeks have been tempted by the way of the exploitation of the country's difficulties for purposes that - it is now clear - are outside the real will to bring a contribution to the work of the Government and Parliament. [[Applause]] The definition of this measure must instead constitute the start of a new path of sharing in the political choices to overcome the difficulties of the many. The measures introduced by the decree-law in question, starting from the rest of the world, are addressed precisely to the sectors most affected by government restrictions. Unfortunately, the urgent need to restore companies that have suffered from pandemic restrictions has led to the exclusion of many other companies with different Ateco codes. For these enterprises the Government has thought, for the next decree-restoration laws, of a fund of equalization that exceeds the system of the codes Ateco, in order to understand all those who have recorded a decrease of the turnover in the year 2020, also and above all those enterprises remained out of the ristori previewed from this provision. My colleague who spoke earlier spoke about the idea of the White Year. I would like to say that the fiscal year is in fact in fact. The problem of companies in 2020 was not taxation, but survival. For this reason, also the Government has thought to foresee in the next decree, as an alternative to the ristori, the total exemption from taxes relative to the year 2020: this is the fiscal white year of which the League speaks. The crisis has brought out even more the gap between those who can rely on a fixed and secure income and those subjects, such as businesses or VAT consignments, who instead live on the daily income and do not have the same guarantees and safeguards as the former. This situation requires us to make precise choices: we must also provide structural welfare for our VAT matches and in the maneuver under examination in the House, thanks also to the commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars, an important solution is emerging in this respect, both to ensure a little more of our VAT consignments, and to lighten the burden of the payments to which they are held. We must no longer allow those who have always contributed to the development of the country and to the support of the state to be deprived of economic protection in the event of a crisis or a lack of income. It is also necessary to re-establish a principle of tax justice, providing for new forms of withdrawal against those digital giants who shield themselves from the extraterritoriality of their homes in order to conceal the income achieved in our country. On the digital tax we cannot remain hung up waiting for uncertain international agreements, such as those expected in the OECD, under the blackmail of retaliation against our exporting companies. We must act in any case and immediately to save our companies, certain that, together with the other European states closest to us and the like, we can oppose the threats of retaliation an enormous contractual force also given the value of the profits achieved by these giants in our territory and the enormous economic value of our digital data. In short, we must use the contingency of the pandemic to create a modern, more just and inclusive society. The achievement of this result, however, also depends on the unity and seriousness that politics must be able to demonstrate. For this reason, I believe and repeat that the agreement on the conversion of the decree-restoration laws must constitute the start of a new political path of unity, as the President of the Republic has reminded us, for the respect of the rights of citizens and for the overcoming of social gaps. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u56	Mr President, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy, there have already been speakers from my colleagues, Mrs Nastri, Mr Maffoni and Mr Petrenga, so, as a member of the Justice Commission, I would like to discuss the chapter on interventions in this area contained within the four decree-laws that we are examining today for conversion. In the field of justice, there are also positive things in these decrees: I refer, for example, to the possibility for lawyers to finally deposit criminal acts also through certified e-mail (PEC). We have been asking for this for months, as well as the categories concerned, and finally the Government has awakened and introduced this simple possibility, which is not understood why it was not previously foreseen, for the filing of criminal acts. On the contrary, we are opposed and particularly concerned about the paperwork of the criminal appeal that is introduced with this measure and we do not talk about the discussion of the case in the Supreme Court. Practically what has always been a fundamental cornerstone of the criminal process, that is, orality, is transformed into a residual criterion, only in particular cases and at the request of a party. This, in our opinion, is very worrying and we are very opposed to it. We are also opposed to yet another empty prisons contained in the decree-law to our examination, because, between early release and granting of home detention, there will be thousands more criminals released. The criminals thank, the citizens a little less, because they are concerned about their own safety. In the decree on our examination, moreover, it is allowed to put the prisoners under house arrest without even assessing the danger that the sentenced person will flee or return to crime. My amendment on this subject, tabled on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group in order to introduce at least this criterion, i.e. the condition laid down in the general rule that is being waived, has simply been ignored, like so many others of those we have tabled. The result: the only ones who really remain condemned in the Italian prison system are the custody agents, who are being harassed, sent to the brunt, forced to massacre shifts (because we know that the staff is lacking of almost ten thousand agents), without tools and sometimes without even the masks. Well, the real convicts in our prison system are the conspiracy agents, who are all of our solidarity. What is most lacking in these four decree-laws, however, is any measure in favour of the honorary judiciary. You have ignored an amendment of mine concerning the honorary magistrates, who, as we all know, are deprived of any protection, are paid in piecework and therefore with the postponement of the hearings are clearly in great difficulty, because they do not perceive any emoluments. We proposed that they receive at least €1,500 a month's compensation for the duration of the emergency. This amendment of ours has also been ignored. It is precisely the honorary judiciary that I would like to draw the attention of this House, because, as we all read in the newspapers, there is a very strong protest on the part of the honorary magistrates, who complain - rightly - that they are working without any protection. For them there are no holidays or rights, there is no recognition of maternity or a social security system in case of illness or accident. We send them to the audience, but if they get covid, we do not recognize the occupational disease, as is the case with other diseases, because the honorary magistrate has no protection in our legal system. They are pariahs, servants of the State who sacrifice themselves and hold on their shoulders 50% and more of all the business that is being dealt with in front of our judicial offices, but they have no rights for our State and for the Government. This is really shameful. I believe that these five thousand servants of the State deserve much more, as the European Court of Justice has acknowledged, and as it is finally recognizing the same National Association of Judges (ANM), which in these days is releasing communications in which it finally recognizes that without the honorary magistrates justice is simply blocked. We all know very well that 90% of the criminal proceedings before the monocratic court judge are held thanks to the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors, because otherwise everything would be blocked, so much so that in some prosecutors they decided to go to the audience just as a form of solidarity with the Honorary Judges. Well, in the face of this dramatic situation, how does Minister Bonafede respond? He replied that this shameful treatment of the honorary magistrates is necessary, because otherwise the professional judiciary would suffer the loss of prestige and the reduction of pay. This was said by Minister Bonafede, not at Porta a porta, but in an official act, answering a question to the House of my party colleague, Mr Delmastro di Fratelli d'Italia. It is a shameful answer, from which even the professional magistrates themselves have distanced themselves, because be careful, this is not one of the many gaffes of the minister to... door to door, but it is a statement contained in an official act of the Government in front of Parliament. A year ago, the Minister said that when you can't prove the dole, then the crime becomes manslaughter. Excuse the syntax, it's not mine, it's the Minister's, which I mentioned. This is not a gaffe, it is an official act in front of Parliament and I believe that from this point of view it is really unacceptable that in as many as four decree-laws the situation of the honorary magistrates has been totally ignored. I believe that we do not really realize that if we do not resolve, even with a decree-law, the dramatic situation of the honorary magistrates, the prosecutors will soon be forced to send the prosecutors, the prosecutors to the audience and therefore with the total paralysis of the investigations by the prosecutors. We do not realize that today the office of the judge of peace is no longer what was once the conciliator, but it has in fact become a real section of the court, which also deals with important matters, especially in civil matters, but also in criminal matters. It deals, for example, with all matters relating to the expulsion of immigrants, it deals with important and fundamental issues, because those who are defined as Bagatellar crimes, second-important crimes, in fact for those who suffer them are important crimes and the honorary judge of peace helps justice to respond to the citizen's demand for justice, which would otherwise not be satisfied. For all these reasons, dear President, I believe it is important that this House today takes note of the importance of responding as soon as possible to the demand for justice of these servants of the State who have been too long mortified and I call on the Government, through the Undersecretary, to give finally and as soon as possible in the next decree-laws or with an ad hoc decree-law the answer they have been waiting for for too long. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u57	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, measures such as the Decree-Law on Restoration and the Decree on Security deserve a wide-ranging debate and deepening, as well as, and even more so, the budget law, which will come to the end of the year in the Senate. They are all measures characterized by a certain date. In fact, however, what is shown by the decree of restaurateurs and other provisions? It is shown that the bicameral parity system has been actually transformed into an alternating one-way monocameralism. For example the decree ristori would expire next 27 and, being we at the beginning of the first reading, the provision will surely arrive to the Chamber armored and inemendable. So, in the same way, but in the opposite direction, the security decree came to us; basically blocked, inemendable and close to the deadline. That is also how the budget law will come about. This means that the role of Parliament and the mandate of the Parliament itself will be completely empty. In practice, at this point, it is a real hypocrisy to continue to mention the centrality of Parliament. We are witnessing, in reality, openas verbis, a genuine outsourcing of the democratic process through task-forces and directing booths. To this is added the further habit of "invading" - let me say this term - behind a decree-law, characterized by specific requirements of necessity and urgency, rules completely foreign to it. In the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a, an amendment was tabled which was not possible, and rightly so, but which now appears in the House's file. This amendment seeks to increase the age limit for doctors, university professors, state lawyers and magistrates. The medical emergency can of course justify the call in the service of doctors, but as far as university professors and magistrates are concerned, the rules of order, in order to avoid interfering with the legitimate expectations existing, should be as stable as possible and regulate a not immediate future. With regard to the magistrates, it is also clear that, since it is another power of the State, it should be stopped playing with the bar of the age limit. I remember that the Berlusconi Government raised the age limit to seventy-five years, the Renzi Government lowered it to seventy and today it is proposed to raise again the retirement office placement age for reaching limits of age to seventy-two years with amendment 22.0.29, signed by Senators Lannutti, Morra and others. It should be stopped because it is all too obvious that this is a selection of the heads of judicial offices. It is an instrument which rapes the independence of the judiciary with unacceptable political control. The objection is that it was not possible to celebrate the last contest. All right, but what my colleague was talking about now is perfectly part of the speech. At this juncture we must remember two things. Firstly, this amendment was announced in December 2018, when Covid was not mentioned, and it was tabled several times, even in the absence of Covid. All of this, while - as my colleague and I will avoid repeating - Mr Bonafede says that the number of judges cannot be increased, finally integrating the honorary magistrates because otherwise the prestige and remuneration of the magistrates togati would be diminished, which I also agree with. As my previous colleague said, we have 5,500 people without disease, without holidays, without TFR, without pension, without stability and without motherhood. I remember that 86 percent of them are women and have no right to motherhood. These are unbearable demands for job protection. On the other hand, there is no urgency to politically select the heads of judicial offices. The content of the amendment is completely unrelated to compensation, to the rest of the world, to people's needs. It has nothing to do with the age of the magistrates with the decree-laws restori except a necessity, evidently unrelated to the provision, to control the selection of the heads of the judicial offices. In this sense, President Napolitano had already expressed himself in 2011, then the Constitutional Court in judgment No. 2 of 2012 and in September the President to the Republic reaffirmed that the practice of having impertinent amendments followed with respect to the text must cease. The reference to Covid is not enough [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u59	Senator, I'll give you your word back, but you've exceeded your time by over a minute and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u60	DE FALCO (Misto-+Eu-Az). It is an instrumental change that does not help to support the country and the citizens in difficulty, but promotes constitutionally undue interference and this ultimately leads to the contrast between institutions of the state and the institutional crisis for confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u61	Thank you, Senator. There's a problem. When you take the time and divide it in five minutes, it is not possible to go beyond the seventh minute, otherwise it is an injustice to the Groups that best divide their times. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u62	Mr President, I believe that my colleagues who spoke before me have already described this measure and its value in a very important and significant way. I just want to emphasise one issue at a general level. It seems to me that these decree-laws confirm the extraordinary attention we have had for those who have lost income and for businesses. It is an objective fact if you calculate the amount of resources invested, as it is objective that many tax deadlines have been moved and that the Government and the majority have chosen to cancel taxes for those who have been most affected by this pandemic. We rejuvenate those who have lost their jobs, but I would also like to stress the interventions that concern the weakest people, the invisible, those who have suffered the most and are likely to suffer even more from this crisis the damage of an increase in distances and social differences. The 400 million for the municipalities, the fund for the incapients and the extension of the emergency income are important measures that I believe must be stressed: we must take care of everyone and we have tried to take care of everyone, because the slogan that no one should be left alone cannot remain only on paper. Mr President, I will focus briefly on a subject which also concerns some citizens, people who are in prisons and prisons in our country at this difficult time. It is clear to all that any institution in which people are concentrated lends more support to the spread of the virus and of the contagion. Today in prisons we are faced with a very serious situation compared to the pandemic, but it is not out of control: out of 54,000 prisoners in our country, a thousand are infected, 140 have symptoms. Therefore, the situation is serious but is not out of control, also thanks to the work done in recent months by directors, workers, health workers, prison workers and especially custody officers. Thanks to that work it contained the contagion, but also thanks to the measures taken by the government at the beginning of the pandemic and today you re-proposed. I remember them because I hear absolutely untrue things: there has been no empty prisons, there has been no freed person at this stage; there have been house arrests for many; there has been intervention and action better and more to reduce pressure and attendance in prisons. More attention is needed to protect the health of prisoners. We have said in recent months, together with many operators, together with the regional guarantors and the National Guarantor, together with many associations, that more must and can be done, also compared to what the Government has already done and that it is contained in this decree. The prison population is still too high with respect to receptiveness; there are no spaces for distance within prison institutions; there are no isolation spaces and it is difficult to find a way to cure people and to secure them. The approval of the decree in our examination and some amendments improve the situation. We would have liked more, I say it and I will say it: we would have wanted to block the executions of convictions that pass into court at this time in order not to let other people in and make the situation worse. We would have liked and will continue to claim the need to increase the penalty discounts for those who have had a positive path and for those who have lived well and with good conduct their experience in prison. The problem of conditions in prisons, of those who are imprisoned and of those who work in prisons I think is a very serious issue and the condition for resolving it is that there is less pressure. It is good that in the recovery fund, in the government program, resources are already provided to improve detention spaces and to defend health, as well as adequate spaces for training and work. The Government, Parliament and politics have a duty to respect the constitutional dictation, which is certainly to ensure the certainty of the sentence, but also to respect the health of the people in prison. Those who think of punishment as revenge and not re-education and reintegration, those who shake fears - as I have heard today - by evoking empty prisons, those who propaganda about people evoke the need to throw away the keys if someone has wrong, create the conditions for prison to become a multiplier of violence and crime. This puts everyone's safety at risk even more. On this subject, the measure we are voting on is not what we would have wanted, but it is taking a step forward: it does not question the certainty of the sentence, nor free anyone, as you are telling us, but it affirms a principle, that policy must act to protect the health of those in prison and that detention is not only suffering, but becomes an opportunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u63	Thank you also for the perfect respect of time. He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have five minutes. Advance the intervention of Senator Pichetto Fratin, who would have ten minutes, but we would go beyond the time of 2:00 p.m., scheduled for the suspension. I've been told that I have to respect the time schedule precisely. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, because there are times. Mr Pichetto Fratin is here first, and I wanted to start with his speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The order of business belongs to the Presidency. If you want to talk later, just say so. I suspend the sitting which will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.55 p.m. and resumed at 15.02 p.m.) The session is resumed. Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u64	Mr President, representatives of the Government, rapporteurs, a special thanks goes to the members of the 5th of the 6th Commission, who have examined the measure together; of course, thanks also to Minister D'Incà, undersecretaries of War and Castaldi for their participation, for their contribution, and to the rapporteurs, Toffanin and Ferrero for the opposition, Marino and Presutto for the majority. As we have been able to hear in the many interventions that have followed between yesterday and today, after the decree-laws so-called care Italy, liquidity, relaunch, August, today we examine a complex of four decree-laws: ristori one, two, three and four and so far the fifth has also been announced. At the origin were interventions on the Ateco codes, increasing with the various refreshments: leave, babysitting leave, stop at the IMU, tax credit for three months of rent October-November-December, but also 300 million for the transport system and 250 million for the regions. Moreover, we are talking about decrees that have already been implemented not only because, being decrees-laws, they have immediate value, but because we are at over 250,000 transfers, so many of the refreshment effects indicated in these measures have already been implemented. This was. Then there is a part of the "is," fruit of the contribution that the Commissions have been able and willing to give, increasing the provision with a series of interventions - many appreciated and voted on by us - such as that of overindebtedness, the anticipation of the norm on the code of crisis of the enterprises, that recalls the law n. 3 of 2012 on overindebtedness, the problem of the rents, the fair compensation, the installment of the IRAP. Moreover, the rules presented by other groups, such as the one on the Regions with a special statute, in particular Sicily, and the stabilisation of the precarious, or even the norm of refreshment for the families of fishermen, unfortunately, still in Libya, and I unfortunately emphasize. There has been a postponement and there has been no discussion of the main basic element represented by the Ateco codes. This was a postponement to the dd due to reasons for coverage, but I also believe it is an opportunity, because it is necessary to reflect on the effectiveness in the future of the Ateco code mechanism, to understand whether they are the most appropriate instrument or whether other criteria should be taken into account. Forza Italia and the center-right contributed with their particular proposals and with three proposals for generalist reform, let's call them, bearing the signature of the Leaders. The first, specifically, that bears the signature of the leader of the Romeo League, refers to the costs relating to energy. This is not so much about the size of the three proposals, but about the substance and the mechanism, that is to say, the need to intervene on the upcoming reforms. On this we invite the Government, referring to costs, revenues and profits. I realize that it is difficult to find an algorithm that works, but it is the only way, because there are activities that have a turnover of 200,000 euros, with a profitability of 50 percent (so 100.00), others that have 500,000 euros of turnover, with a profitability of 10 percent (50.000) and others even less. In addition to the costs, our amending proposal concerns transport - the nerve that has been uncovered over the last six months and we have unfortunately realised this with the opening of schools - and the need for intervention that also involves the private system, with the start of a process to accompany the change in the transport system and the response to the transport system. The indicators tell us in fact that surely there will be no longer the static model that had been created: we think in a city like Rome what it meant the transport system linked to the convention, on which it has affected the technological drive forced by the lockdown, that it has led to an automatic modification. A third amendment, at the first signature of Senator Bernini, is concerned, finally, with a more punctual system of refreshments. On this, too, we are at the turn of the day, in the sense that it is only a start, but, according to our reasoning, the next refreshments will no longer have to be dusted at national level, but we will have to proceed in a more precise way, with territorial references. The reality of Calabria is not the same as Umbria or Piedmont, so it must be given a space, regulated and not messy, to punctual interventions by the regional system. This is therefore a first step towards a targeted, regulated exit and, hopefully, as quickly as possible from this situation. At this moment, however, we are all at present, indeed, we are still in a prephase of the present of the emergency, since the emergency is linked to the budget maneuver, which we will debate next week and which in these hours is being discussed in the House, which goes to cover other needs of refreshment. From what appears, at this moment we are discussing self-employment, first steps compared to manufacturing industry for a new stimulus. Then there will be the so-called ristori-d decree, which also provides for a deviation. Colleagues, this very serious situation is also an opportunity to intervene on the procedures and to regulate the too many powers that immobilize the system. We certainly have to pay attention to thieves, but I would like to mention the TAR, the case of Puglia, which, with two decisions on two different provinces on the issue of lockdown, is significant. Court of Auditors, stamps, monitoring, civil courts: yesterday Mr Dal Mas reminded us that civil trials on average last more than twice the average of other European countries. Monitors, statistics, ordinary bureaucracy, from which we are part, from which we cannot pull ourselves out and to which we have contributed many times. One example of us, mentioned yesterday by Mrs Toffanin, is microcredit. In the liquidity decree we have foreseen a change from 25,000 to 40,000 euros of the limit for microcredit and we have delegated it to a ministerial decree. Well, we had to remove the delegation to the ministerial decree on something that was urgent at that time and make it effective by norm, because the Ministry, in six months, had not responded to this urgency. Now, however, we must have the courage to intervene responsibly. We have a duty to put our hands on the procedures. Since we also have a duty to switch from the oxygen cylinder to the oxygen that has been breathed directly from our society as a result of the situation that has arisen, we must also immediately address some issues that have emerged clearly. Having talked about oxygen canisters, I am taking the example of health care. We need health workers: not administrators or lawyers to do procedures, but health workers. We need reforms to make us a modern country. On the other hand, in becoming a modern country, my political side clearly says that we cannot solve all crises with statization. We have to produce margins. The survey of Banca d'Italia, which puts some cities at the top of the ranking for savings, such as Bologna, is not an element of positivity, but of negativity. Having the savings that grow is a negative fact, because it also means that companies do not invest; and, if you do not invest, you do not grasp the junction that will be with the recovery fund and that will have to allow Italy to be in the condition to use it to the maximum. I would like to point out that this fund amounts to more than twice as much as the Marshall plan, which, as it is up to now, would amount to about 90 billion. Our public administration is unable to deal with it. I tell the government that, as a country, we must direct ourselves towards private initiative. The last consideration is simple. We have the example at home: it's the 4.0 national industrial plan and the 110% super bonus. It's a first course. It is a commitment that we ask the Government and it is an important commitment to get the country out of this condition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u66	Mr President, is it possible to make a summary of two days of intervention? Yes, with different tones and accents related to the measure, at least on one point we all agree: there are still dozens of open issues. To the point that, after the decrees one, two, three and four, we even announced the fifth provision. So, the sure thing is, there's still so much to do. This reminds me a little of the exodus caused by the Fornero law. I believe that, in that case, we even came to the ninth measure. The problem is that, over time, companies are closing down and families and citizens have problems. That's the thing. Let me be clear: this does not take away anything from the positive commitment on the individual amendment, which perhaps has seen us all working together. I could mention the amendment which led to the exclusion of contributions for reconstruction from the foreclosure; an amendment which, without everyone's commitment, would not have passed. However, it is not a single amendment, as it is not three joint amendments to the centre-right, albeit positive, which change the overall assessment of the measure. And then, rather than a ristori decree, someone said that we should call it compensation decree. But it is clear that, with the resources available, real compensation could not be given and then, perhaps, it would have been appropriate to call it a charity decree. This is what has been given: alms to certain categories. [[Applause]] And even where it is said that, compared with other measures, they will have 100, 200 or 400 percent, it is necessary to ask what these percentages refer to. Are you referring to the loss? No: we refer to what little was given with the previous decree-law. Let me say, then, that it is not possible that, when it comes to paying taxes, categories should be subject to spending meters and sector studies, and then, when it comes to contributing, someone should be given alms, like 600 euros. That's what's wrong. [[Applause]] But if those who receive the contribution realize that it is a charity, unfortunately they will not see who is even excluded, that is, all the categories defined by those infamous Ateco codes, which have been excluded. Behind each of those signatures, however, there are thousands of companies and hundreds of thousands of people. Senator Rampi, is it difficult? No, it's very easy, because the criterion is to consider who had a direct or indirect damage from the Covid. We cannot refresh the restaurateurs - excuse the bickering of words - and perhaps not the wholesalers of the Horeca section who sell to the restaurateurs. This is indirect damage, but absolutely obvious and many could be examples, from artistic ceramics to many others. After that, not only is there an injustice between the Ateco codes considered and those not considered, but there is another, which has been perpetrated by the decree-law August and which has not been healed with the measure under consideration, which concerns the economic activities of the historical centers of the cities of art with touristic vocation. Who has an economic activity and maybe sells artistic products and not Chinese shops has an economic damage, because there are no tourists, so much so that its municipality is a provincial capital as it is a normal municipality, which maybe hosts hundreds of thousands or millions of tourists. It seems normal to you that Municipalities such as Assisi or Sorrento - but I could mention them all over Italy and I wouldn't be enough in the afternoon - are excluded for the mere fact that they are not provincial capital? This is an injustice within a valid and positive indication - why not recognize it? - by Minister Franceschini, but excluding, in front of 29 cities included, thousands of Italian municipalities, however tourist. In the same way it is very good to have contributed to the cave towns, which may have had fewer tourists: for 20 municipalities there are two million euros. It should be remembered, however, that there are other 1,840 municipalities (the cities of oil, wine or ceramics), which have been excluded. Why do some yes and others not? Why is someone more interested in each other than others? These are obvious injustices in the measure under consideration. It may be said that the funds were lacking, but we - as we have said - are available for further budgetary deviation, provided that the resources are committed constructively and without distinction. You have preferred to use the funds advanced by the previous decree-laws and this already says a lot about how the measures went, if there are even billions of euros unused that are being re-used. I will conclude with one last example: you have sometimes given the necessary, sometimes the superfluous, but some have not been given the indispensable. I think of the people who were to be refreshed for the distance from affections and fragile workers. You have extended the premium licenses and have not found a way to equate absence from work for fragile workers, who risk their lives, if they are in contact with infected people, to go to work. [[Applause]] I'll finish with the hug room. Senator Santillo sent a distance hug to our elders, but we wanted to give it to him physically. Let us then find the resources to intervene in this direction. Not to us, but to those people you have to apologize, because it is not said that there will be next Christmas. In the cartoon of a cartoonist a child on the phone asks his grandfather if next Christmas they will spend it together. And Grandpa answers him and says he hopes so much. There are times when time makes the difference: there is the budget law: we find together the way to emotionally refresh those people and not leave them alone. Sometimes what is little for us is for others everything. Let's do it with the next measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u67	She's enlisted to speak Senator Accoto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today I can say that I am happy: I am very happy with the work that has been done on this measure. Many meetings, phone calls and daily videocalls have been made so as not to leave anyone behind and, in the end, we did it. What I feel is a feeling of positive fatigue, the one that is felt at the end of a very hard race, but that confirms the fact that I have put it all in. Unfortunately, not everyone in this House can say the same: there are those who have worked tirelessly and those who too often use emergency measures such as this to fuel their desire for continuous electoral propaganda. We can think of some political leaders as the students of a school. I think the metaphor fits perfectly with reference to the contingent situation that is emerging in the Italian political scenario. You assign the roles, I won't name them. We have the arrogant with his clique, more accustomed to swelling his chest with words than for concrete facts. We have the good pupil, but he doesn't do much; the professor believes in him, but he must always chase him. Unfortunately, we also have the capable, but very insolent one, who believes that he knows more than the same professor, which leads him on the wrong path and to make daughter choices of the wrong dimensioning of his own abilities. All these guys - metaphorically speaking of course - in recent weeks have been staging a futile political gazzarre for the country and sincerely also incomprehensible. Every day it seems like a screaming school assembly, to continue with metaphors always taken from the school. It's just that it's not just the internal dynamics of the school that are at stake here: the whole future of our country is at stake here. [[Applause]] And don't tell me this is the game of the parties, because this isn't the time. I'm not in! [[Applause]] We have over 65,000 deaths, families destroyed, businesses in difficulty. That's enough, that's enough: we need responsibility. [[Applause]] But let us return to the reality and to the obvious and tangible problems that this emergency has brought with it. The text we are discussing today economically supports dozens of economic, labour and productive sectors that would otherwise not have found the strength to resist and that would have ended up in an abyss. Of course we have done and we are doing everything, but who from those benches - and I turn to those who are sitting on my left - screams every day against the good work of this Government increasingly pushes our companies and our citizens towards that very abyss. There have been calls for a parliamentary transversality in the work of these months; calls for a sense of the state that those who occupy these posts in Parliament should have; calls all fallen into the void, all turned into words in the wind. The text we shall be voting on is the result of intensive synergistic work between the Government, businesses, workers and the social partners. We have strengthened the protection network set up with previous measures for the most vulnerable groups and penalised by the necessary restrictions; this time we have targeted support for the most affected economic sectors, through a direct non-refund contribution that has increased to up to 400 percent compared to the past. [[Applause]] We have left no one behind, putting in place specific measures in favour of farms operating in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, without forgetting, however, from a long-term perspective, to support the export and internalisation of our enterprises through the provision of soft loans. The focus of the measure, in particular the so-called restori-c, consists of a series of fiscal extensions aimed at giving oxygen to our economic and productive fabric; among other things, the extension of the terms of payment of the Ires, the Irpef and the IRAP. We have also canceled the IMU instalment and introduced an equalization fund to grant a total or partial exemption of the contributions and tax payments in favour of those activities that have suffered a significant loss of turnover. Among the many extensions planned, those of the Integration Fund and the postponement of the end of the blockage of redundancies, which, together with the emergency income, are part of the measures planned to support families and the most fragile groups, deserve a mention. Do You Remember? No one will be left behind. It wasn't just a slogan. [[Applause]] , but we are constantly trying to translate it into concrete facts. In order to return to school, we have put in place additional resources for digital innovation and distance learning, in order to allow all students to continue their training course, while ensuring to parents tools to reconcile work to the renewed family needs through tools such as smart working and leave. Attention: these interventions to support Italian families are only the preamble to interventions gradually more incisive. I remember that the single check will start next year. Finally, I would also like to focus on the extraordinary effort of our Forces of Order, called to ensure public safety in this delicate phase of containment of the contagion. We have put in place additional resources to pay off their commendable work. I debuted in this speech by applauding the long and very hard work that has been accomplished. Who has failed in this intercourse is only that he has consciously chosen not to be a part of it. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, you will go to history, not because of your political struggles, but as the leaders of the might, but I did not want to. [[Applause]] I conclude by thanking all the offices that have supported us and support us during the work, colleagues of the Budget and Finance Commissions, rapporteurs, undersecretaries Castaldi and Guerra for the constancy, patience and dedication shown during the examination of the measure, whose text arrives today in the Chamber enriched and improved compared to the one of departure. What we have done not only in recent months, but throughout this last year, the way we are facing the biggest economic crisis in the post-war period, will be the most precious of the treasures that we can leave to the new generations, in the hope that - I am sure - the next two years of the 18th legislature will be the basis for building a more inclusive, technologically advanced country and voted for social and gender equity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u69	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Presutto.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u70	Mr President, we have heard a lot of interesting speeches with Mr Marino over the last two days, but I have to say in some cases that are out of place and out of place because we have to remember that we are moving in a context of a global pandemic; a pandemic that has generated a health emergency and an economic one against which there is no solution, there is no magic wand with which to intervene and solve the problems that are putting Italy to the test, and not only. The measure we have presented since yesterday in this House is special, special, new and innovative: four decrees incorporated into a single bill. But it was not an idea, a genius of the Government: it was the need to respond to a second wave of contagion that resulted in two DPCMs with restrictive measures necessary to protect the health of Italians. From these restrictive measures are generated economic consequences, and not only: also organizational of some state apparatuses such as justice and school. These are topics that we have been dealing with since March with a consequential logic that is not irrational. The government has been accused of a lack of vision, but I think it has had the better view than a very uncertain situation, difficult to predict. We must also take into account another thing: the answers that have been given and that must be given to citizens must be quick and effective, and this within an ordinary activity of the State which, especially during this period, is seeing the debate on the budget in the House. So there is a combination of situations in which - on the one hand - we have the budget and the planning of the recovery plan and - on the other - refreshment measures of fundamental strategic importance. It is true that there will be a decree of restoratori five but - I repeat - it is a governmental requirement, and Parliament in this case, to take into account economic variables that change as a result of health aspects that are conditioning the political activity of the State according to the needs of the territory. However, I do not think it is right to say that the Government has not or has not had a vision. The vision was there from the first moment and will continue to be there. I would add that we have worked together with my colleague, Mr Marino, in all the various stages of this negotiation, which was accompanied above all, before entering the Commission, by a continuous confrontation with the oppositions. The collaboration was, otherwise, this measure, which is not for the majority but for the country, today would have had difficulties in its discussion. Therefore, the sense of responsibility that you have assumed and did not want to recognize in its entirety, I recognize it. It is a problem of national unity with respect to an emergency that has no political color, which has no geographical difference. [[Applause]] Today, Parliament is giving a unique response to the nation and it is also your merit. I recognize it, representing the Five Star Movement. Then the criticisms are part of the political dialectic, but believe me when I tell you, as rapporteur of the measure to our examination of which I must protect the integrity, honor to you. Today the Italians want not political oppositions, but certain answers. [[Applause]] We, continuing with the same mode of work, with different points of view, according to the epistemology of the point of view we see the same thing from different points of view, but it is the same thing. That is why the amendments are intended to supplement the measure. Someone said yesterday that the best amendments were those tabled by his Group. It is certain that helping businesses to supply electricity or the regions is not the wrong idea. I told you that I would also sign similar amendments. But we have the rents, we have the RSAs, we have the enhancement of the health system, we have the TOSAP and COSAP and the related amendments are not second-level. Therefore, to those who used these words yesterday I ask for an examination of conscience, because they are all amendments that have a national legitimacy that can be shared. Today, this House is giving a truly honourable response to Italy for all, and it is also thanks to the Government and all the political representatives. What we will do with the decree restaurants five is the recovery of those categories that we could not accept for financial needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u71	I invite you to conclude. I would remind you that each rapporteur has five minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u72	Mr Presutto, rapporteur. Thank you, President. We're gonna go cover the supply chain and then we're gonna have the recovery plan. For the revival of the country the Italians want certainties. They don't want political opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u73	I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Minister, Undersecretaries, I regret having five minutes to reply to a long and complex debate, partly because we have followed it and, therefore, it would be a form of respect to be able to reply to colleagues. I would like these fifteen seconds not to be taken into account, but I would ask that the next Conference of Leaders also take account of the division of roles precisely in relation to the respect that is brought to Members when listening to and believing that, perhaps, we should also respond. It is regrettable that elements of controversy, some even not really civil, have crossed the necessary sense of community that our country needs at this time and which it mentioned very well colleague Mr Presutto. I regret - as I said in the Commission - that there are times when you are given "you" and when you are given "you." Joking in a humorous way, Bertoldi's colleague says that there are also times when people call themselves "you." I thought that the agreement could bring us back to that "you" in a constructive way, and instead some set up the dialogue with a sometimes haughty, distant and not really very disposing "she." In the first illustration of the measure I had taken in the Commission, I spoke of a work in progress which was - we understood - the natural sum of the four measures in one. Well, I had already spoken at that time not of a bipartition between majority and minority, but of a tripartition that is not that of the spirit of the laws of Montesquieu, but that of the relationship between government, majority and minority. I was thinking of a positive narration to follow also in the five restaurants, because this was part of the debate that we developed. In some cases, on the other hand, there has been a rather ungenerous sum of criticism, despite the fact that the millions had risen from 600 to 620 and in this breakdown there had been a division of 380 for the opposition and 240 for the majority, which is understood precisely in the logic of the tripartition and not in the overall logic, because Parliament is one thing and the Government - which is supported by a majority - is something different. On those resources available we had to make choices that were dictated by speed and importance, that is, for once we have taken into account both what is urgent and what is important, which are usually two categories of the spirit on which we tend to get a little confused. Personally I greatly appreciated the proposal made in the general debate of Senator Bergesio of 100 million for food supply chains, as I appreciated that of Senator Cantù of 100 million to support the needs of health care or the unquantified one of Senator Nisini on fragile workers. But we must make choices: politics is also taking responsibility for the choices made and I must say that we in the majority could have made proposals on how to spend those 380 million well. The logic was that of perspective continuity, in a certain sense also towards the future and towards the five refreshments. The majority have made choices, and some have already illustrated Senator Presutto and there is no time to say what positive has been done. To everything that my colleague has already said, however, I add telemedicine, because it seems to me a measure of great civilization, especially with respect to the mountain municipalities, those most abandoned and more difficult to manage. But there are some of them as important and important as those for housing, and the figures are significant and important. I repeat that this is the beginning of a path that will have to come to something different. Is everything okay? No, I want to be honest. I think that the issue of justice - for example - might have been better dealt with in an autonomous measure, as has often been the case in the debate, but it has been done decently. There is a structural problem, however, which I want to denounce in conclusion, which deserves independent reflection: as legislators we have put in place an emerging legislation to which the underlying bureaucracy has not always been given a response to our expectations, because in some cases there was an inadequate mindset. In the book "The After" by Ilaria Capua there is a nice passage in which it says that after the virus we will still have to change our mental map. I am deeply convinced of this. It seems to me that as legislators we have tried to live up to the new challenges to which we are called, of which we will have to show that we are truly up to the level of the five restaurants, which will have to represent a qualitative leap, bringing us to a level of systematization, of the organicity of the treatment of all these subjects that are absolutely necessary and that I am convinced we will be up to the level. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u75	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrero.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to your speeches and especially to those of the majority - I like to listen - and I have heard so much praise of this measure, so much self-celebration and little criticism I have to say - apart from some cases. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition has taken a constructive, not obstructive, attitude, Senator Dell'Olio. We have tabled so many amendments - in response to Senator Fenu's criticism, we really think they are all important - trying to correct as far as possible a measure which - I repeat - is disorganic and visionless in our view. We originally dispute the structure and the ratio of the measure. For this reason, we minority rapporteurs are here to comment on the ristori decree with a different voice and strongly critical of it. We therefore contest the use of the calculation of the grant with the April 2020 report on April 2019. We dispute the use of the Ateco codes, which unfairly excluded many groups strongly affected by the closures. For us it was just a chain logic, that was the logic to adopt. We're discussing extensions too late, or you're not here. We contend with the many, too many anomalies and contradictions, pointed out by our Group and a little 'by all the opposition, but they have remained unheard. Do you know, for example, that VAT at the table is 10% in the badly damaged catering sector and VAT at 22% for take-out? The last statement by the Revenue Agency says that the take-off remains with VAT at 22%. You know these distortions too. Why did you not, for example, accept our amendment on the harmonization of VAT for take-away? I don't want to think that you want to cash in on the skin of the restaurateurs and the unsuspecting citizens. As for - for example - the lottery of receipts, I continue to beat on the spot because traders are in serious difficulty. We, together with all the opposition forces, have tabled an amendment, but not only: it has also presented some majority power, even signed by the leader of the Democratic Party in the Budget Committee. Our amendment received a vote against and therefore, paradoxically, the majority forces also voted contrary to their own amendment. It was an amendment that cost nothing and would have raised our traders already in serious crisis from a further task. Evidently, however, the lawyer of the Italians had already ready the ministerial advertising to incite the Italians to the game, to try their luck. Allow me, gentlemen, this seems to me to be a shame. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have been clamouring for a fiscal white year and only now does the majority seem to listen to us. I quote the words spoken yesterday by the political leader of the Movimento 5 Stars: It is a fundamental measure that we are also working on thanks to a serious institutional collaboration with oppositions. Colleagues, for Christ's sake, everything is fine, but it's late now: you had to listen to us maybe a few months ago. It doesn't take so long to understand that, before giving hands and alms to Italians, you must first not make them pay; it is a measure of common sense. I would like to make, in conclusion, a few references to collaboration, this unknown one. We have worked with the rapporteurs, with the Undersecretary Guerra, who has always been present, and I appreciate the commitment of the whole Commission. Collaboration, however, in a crisis of such magnitude means writing the measures involving oppositions, or at least consulting them. The collaboration is to make the oppositions of the minutes of the Technical and Scientific Committee. [[Applause]] On this point I regret to contradict Mr Presutto, but cooperation means not using the distributive logic of the funds, in my opinion absurd. If we think that, out of the 18 billion committed, Members have been left to manage 601 million, we can say that they are crumbs, they are a delight; this is not for us in the opposition, but for the whole of Parliament. This is not just a matter for the minority. Our amendments that we tabled were all commendable, but the government treated us as if it had given us a ridiculous, non-existent legacy. This should represent our work as legislators, as elected, and instead, we are mortified by government measures that are almost impossible to change by Parliament. My appeal, apart from our negative opinion on the measure itself, is once again what I did a few months ago in this House. Listen to us, listen to our proposals because Italy needs serious interventions [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u77	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u78	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it has emerged from the debate in this House that there are many criticisms of the decree-law under consideration, starting with the Ateco codes, their application, the extension of tax deadlines as it has been declined, the fact that important issues such as justice issues have entered into a measure on remedies for economic activities. Four decrees-laws were issued, one after the other, not because of the complexity of the moment we are living, but because of the late way this Executive operates. There has been talk of school, but it cannot be said that the possible reopening of schools in January - if they reopen - will be a success, because the real success would have been to continue with the teaching in presence from the beginning, as it has happened in other European countries. The fact that the reduction of the fixed costs of electricity bills has been a measure already presented in a previous measure by the Government and the majority means that the measures taken by this Executive are not always far from the sensitivity of the oppositions. The problem is that the measures are always adopted in commercials, with limited resources, without continuity and without a design on which we believe it is necessary to focus. Some of the Centre's proposals dealt with subjects corresponding to those of the majority, as demonstrated by a number of amendments that have been adopted: for example, on attention to the needs of the RSA, on the facilitation of youth recruitment and on the consideration of publishing. We in the opposition felt it necessary to focus on three areas of intervention to concentrate action effectively. We now hope that these actions will find the necessary continuity in the next steps. We make ourselves available to the country with our proposals, not without the critical spirit necessary in the matter. In this regard, in this spirit today I think it is necessary to recall the words of warning given yesterday evening by Mario Draghi, who, as co-chair of the G30 working group, in a preliminary report by the Covid organisation, urged the authorities to act urgently, because in many countries there is on the brink of a solvency crisis, more than it seems, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, considering that the support programmes are running out and that the massive injections of liquidity have helped to shield the situation. All our actions are inspired by this objective. Investment is needed to drive the economy around and increase GDP with incentives and reforms that promote the maintenance and creation of real jobs. I conclude by thanking my fellow rapporteurs, the Government, the Presidents of the Commission and all the Commissioners for the work they have done over the past few days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u79	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u80	Mr President, I rise very briefly to stress the importance that the debate and the work carried out in the Senate on the important measures under consideration have also been important for the Government. There are two aspects that I think need to stress: firstly, whatever assessment is given - and we have had different assessments of the original measures - there is no doubt that the intervention and the work done in the Senate have increased both its effectiveness and its scope, with a significant contribution that has come - it must be recognized as an adjective - both by the majority and by the minority. That is something I think is a positive point that must be highlighted. The second aspect that I would like to stress is that, again, whatever the assessment of the work carried out - and we have had some conflicting ones - the debate that has taken place, the criticisms that have been made, the limitations and stresses of the positive aspects that have also been raised have been helpful. I would like to stress that criticism is also partly shared, because the Government that proposed it is also aware of the limitations of these measures. Then everyone gives an assessment of why this has been done or not, but all the debate that has taken place will have to and can be put to good use for the subsequent measures. There is no doubt - and I would also like to stress this as an objective fact - that as long as our country has to fight this terrible pandemic, as the other countries of Europe and - alas - of the world are doing, it will be necessary to give continuity and be close to the economy and society at all times, trying to refine, complete and improve the interventions, that even from the point of view of the Government we think have already been validly implemented. Therefore, there are also positive aspects in the debate, in the criticisms and in the limits highlighted and in the many proposals - I would like to stress this - which are largely contained in the amendments, which have not even been possible to examine because the time has been short, and especially on the agendas that have transposed them and which must be evaluated and considered, because they are full of ideas. I think that all this work can also be put to good use in the continuation of parliamentary work. I would particularly like to thank, on behalf of the Undersecretary, Mr Castaldi, who, together with me and under the coordination of Minister D'Incà, has followed the work of the House for the Government, colleagues from both the minority and the majority, the President of the Commission and the rapporteurs, who have accompanied us very patiently step by step, and of course - I say, of course, but we do not always remember them with due attention - all the employees of the offices to which we have asked for considerable efforts, both public holidays and nights, which is not always to be taken for granted. With these thanks and with this wish I close my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u81	At the President's disposal, I shall suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 15.53 p.m. and resumed at 5.10 p.m.) A moment of attention, ladies and gentlemen, because the premise I am about to make is important. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has examined the amendments tabled to the draft law for the conversion of the so-called "restoration" decree-law in the light of the precedents relating to emergency measures, as well as in view of the comments and references made by the President of the Republic, as last contained in the letter of 11 September 2020. On that occasion, judgment n. 247 of 2019 has been recalled, in which the Constitutional Court has specified that the law of conversion is functionalized to the stabilization of a measure having force of law and is characterized by a procedure of approval peculiar and simplified regarding the ordinary one. It cannot therefore open up to any content. At the expense of being used for purposes unrelated to those justifying the act by force of law, the provisions introduced in the conversion must be able to be linked to the content already governed by the decree-law or, in the case of governmental measures with multiple content, to the dominant ratio of the original measure considered as a whole. This is part of the Constitutional Court's ruling. In the present case, this is not a single measure with multiple content, but four measures with multiple content that have occurred over time, three of which are incorporated, through government amendments, into the original decree-law. Consequently, in the course of the examination of the budget and finance meeting in the Commissions, it was necessary to amend the following three decrees, which in turn became amendments to the main text, through the instrument of sub-amendments and sub-amendments, so to speak, derived. Only and exclusively for this reason were sub-amendments of the nature of genuine additional amendments accepted. This particularity cannot, however, constitute a general precedent, which applies without distinction to all the measures before the Assembly. This is to say that this was an exceptional measure, because of the difficulty of reading that we have all had of these measures. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that the amendments to the list distributed are inadmissible, since they are outside the scope of the decree-law. Compared to the distributed list, on page 7, to No 162, the amendment wrongly referred to as 23.0.1 is 23.11. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u82	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment transposing the amendments proposed by the Commissions in the referent, entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u85	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in relation to Mr D'Incà's words, the text would appear to have been approved by the Commissions meeting in the referee. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you let me finish, maybe I have something to add. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let me finish, Mr. President. We have now been given a list of impproposities of more than ten pages, so I would ask you to allow us to verify what have been declared imppropos and to hear from the Government whether or not it considers that it accepts the proposals for impproposability and therefore to accept them within the maxi amendment it has tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u86	I'll give you a specification. These are the inpropos that, as a Presidency, we have stated in relation to what has been declared by the Commission. This is a general list and those are my inproposities. Compared to this, in the maxi amendment, the Government transmitted everything that was approved by the Joint Commissions. Now to me you are pointing out, with respect to what has been included by the Government in the maxi amendment, what I believe to be the impponibility and I was going to pronounce them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u87	Mr President, in accordance with Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency examines the text and makes the assessments that I believe are identical to the impponibility that you have stated. It is clear that the government will put it not on the text that has been deposited, but on what will be called for in an amending sense by the Presidency, and will therefore place confidence on that text and not on what has been deposited.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u88	As you know, the Government usually presents a text which reproduces all the amendments that have been adopted in the Commission. With regard to this text, what I have distributed is for completeness, in the sense of saying what the Commission is doing. The president's judgment is unappellable, as you know better than I do. What is different is the fall of what has been decided by the Commission and which has entered into a major amendment, which I have examined. In the light of the inproposities I put in the text that I had distributed, I'm going to read what I think is improbable and I'm doing it now. In the light of the Minister's statement, the Presidency shall assess the admissible amendment, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure, except in the parts which reproduce the amendments approved by the Joint Commissions declared inadmissible by the Presidency. I read them: 5.46, 20.0.17, 21.14, 23.0.8... [[Comments.]] I'm reading, please don't interrupt me, colleagues. Continuous: 23.0.11 (text 2), 23.42, 26.1 (correct text), 27.0.7, 27.0.9, 33.0.25 (text 4), 11000/508, 11000/3000/115, 11000/3000/264, 11000/3000/266, 11000/3000/325 (text 2), 11000/3000/391 (text 3), 11000/3000/410, 11000/3000/532 (text 2), 11000/3000/533 (text 2), 11000/3000/559 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u91	MARINO, rapporteur. Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you and I apologize. I ask you, as a courtesy to the rapporteurs, if you can please read according to the order of the file that has been delivered to us, but I am convinced that you will be kind enough to give us the text, so calmly (because we still play a role and try to do so to the full) we will be able to expound from the amendments that we have approved, having confidence, those that we have just read.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u92	I ask the assistants to make a photocopy of this list and distribute it to colleagues, first of all to the Minister, to facilitate our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u95	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I understand the exceptionality of events and also of the regulatory process, including the difficulty of bringing together the beauty of four decree-laws within a single provision and therefore the mechanism of sub-amendments, so widespread and complicated. Moreover, Italy is experiencing a very difficult passage for the health emergency and also for the economic one. However, Mr President, I feel obliged to make a point of mind, particularly in the light of the situation: personally, like my entire Group, but I think perhaps the whole of this House, I am experiencing a certain kind of regulatory process with great difficulty, because the political forces, with their parliamentary groups, members of the Commissions to which you have assigned the measures, are debating and confronting each other. The debate and the debate, Mr President, have been particularly delicate and have seen an attitude on the part of the opposition that I would like to call constructive: I thank them for allowing us to get here today. There is a phase in which the discussion becomes difficult and we discover, only at the end of the process, that a part of those decisions that have passed by the Commissions and that have had their vote are then frustrated by its legitimate and unquestionable decision of imponibility. Mr President, I would like to make my appeal in a constructive and effective perspective, which responds to a political, but also institutional, need. In future, we must put the Commissions in a position to vote on an amendment, knowing whether or not, in the event of a successful outcome, it will be in the measure. I assure you that, in political and parliamentary terms, it is humiliating to suppose a job, to build it and to pursue it to the end, and then to arrive at the final consideration that all the work upstream, often on several issues, has been done on issues that are then called impossible by the Presidency. Mr President, I repeat: it is not a controversy or a criticism; it is a situation of great emergency and exceptionality, but I ask you to identify the mechanisms so that this kind of process can no longer take place, because it is genuinely humiliating for us all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u96	Senator Marcucci, I take note. Its difficulty has also been mine, because we have worked on this text. Of course, we have been dealing with 4,000 amendments. It was not so much a problem of quantity as of quality. As you know, I value not merit, but the extraneousness of matter and this provision has been very difficult: for this reason I said that it was an exception that does not constitute a precedent, because I hope that there is no longer this way of working.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u99	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking because the group leader, Mr Marcucci, referred to an uneasiness of all the parliamentary groups. I would like to make it clear that in the Commissions 5th and 6th, as a group, we immediately saw that some of the amendments tabled, although important and legitimate, were totally unrelated and had nothing to do with the ristori decree. We have said this on more than one occasion during the debate and we have also decided not to take part in the vote on some of the amendments, because, beyond the substance, we thought that they were extraneous on the subject and that they were other places where they could legitimately be discussed and approved, from the examination of the budget law to those of other measures that could have been called into question. It has been made clear that the succession of four decree-laws constitutes a totally abnormal path and we share it. We have even seen the possibility for the government to subservient its own amendments to the basic text. We hope that this abnormal procedure will not be repeated in the future, because it has created difficulties in dealing with the measure, the debate and the adoption of the amendments. I remember perfectly well that in the final phase some amendments were clearly unrelated to the subject of the decree-laws, which concerned the inconveniences and the need to respond to productive categories of workers damaged during the periods of closure of the Regions and the activities that followed. However, as is often the case, there has unfortunately been a temptation on the part of some groups and colleagues to table totally foreign amendments, which I shall not quote. Mr President, in the end we need only one thing: to have the right time, which is necessary to see not the whole of the initial list, which you have rightly reported, but the limited list of impproposities linked to the second list of amendments, which are actually affecting the text on which the Government has put the question of trust. We hope that the competent Commission will have sufficient time to look into the amendments, because I believe that the Senate Assembly should be given the opportunity to know exactly what the trust is about and what the amendments are from the text adopted by the relevant Commission. This is the only means by which the Senate will be able to give a conscious vote on the decree-restoration laws. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u102	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I have listened carefully to what you have said and I share some things, with great sincerity. However, we would need - or at least myself - to give further thought. I would therefore ask you for a few minutes, because without the text in front, with the numbers, I did not understand some things, even though I thought about what I heard; but we would need a moment of reflection to consider what the situation entails and what the vote we should be voting for. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u105	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to say that between the Government, inadmissibility and declarations of inproposability in this House, today the adoption of an amendment is like winning the lot: we have reached this point. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u106	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament again, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a government, we accept the Presidency's indications of the proposed impproponibilities, in the contribution of the text for the impproponibilities indicated in the maxi amendment; therefore, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1994, in the text deemed available by the Presidency, of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 137 of 28 October 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u110	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, we need to check the texts that have been submitted to us in relation to the one that the Commission has launched. I would therefore ask you for a suspension so that we can examine, before any other passage, the contents of the maxi amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u113	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, Mr Pharaoh anticipated us. We would like to acknowledge the difficulty - probably unpublished - of dealing with a decree in matrioska, that is, a decree-law containing another one, which in turn contains another and so on; I believe they are an unprecedented event in the history of the Senate decree-laws that happen in the form of amendments, sub-amendments and sub-amendments to the sub-amendment. The activities of the Groups, but also of the Offices and of the President himself, have been made very complicated by those who have chosen this path to the Government, dangerous and confused. I would also like to point out that some 20 days ago, at the Conference of the Leaders, I warned my colleagues and the Government of the insurmountable difficulty of dealing with such a sensitive issue in the Commission, and then inevitably also in this House, having to deal with amendments that touched on the original text, while they were touched on and modified in turn by subsequent amendments, which were the decrees for restaurants three, four and five. We had therefore asked the Government to legislate with more order, perhaps providing for two coupled decrees and then another, also coupled, but we were not heard. So now it is really incomprehensible that, especially on the part of the majority, we are complaining about the confusion in which we are forced to vote on this major amendment. Turning to the substance of the interruption requested by Mr Pharaoh, we too need a short pause to make a review of the amendments which have been declared inadmissible, so that we can then be able to give our opinion in the 5th Commission, after having examined, in sufficient time, which are those which have not been accepted by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u116	MARINO, rapporteur. Mr President, I am speaking only with a view to cleaning up the work, because, if I understand correctly, the list you have kindly given us indicates the inpropos of the text which was to be put to the vote. However, I see some differences, so a comparison would be useful. Amendment 27.0.7, for example, was rejected, and the text was put to the vote. The same is true of Amendment No 27,0.9: again, the amending proposal put to the vote is text 2. I cannot find amendment 1,1000/3000/391 (text 3). I therefore ask for a check only to ascertain whether the list that has been distributed to us is the one with which we have to compare with the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u117	Senator Marino, you ask me for a suspension to do a test, even if I can't follow you, because I have to check, comparing with my list. I therefore suspend the sitting for a quarter of an hour. [[Protests]] Colleagues, there is no point in protesting, because I am being asked for a check on the text by the rapporteur. [[Applause]] We're insane. I am suspending the sitting for a quarter of an hour to check the text with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u120	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it seems to me that all the groups unanimously agree with the request for a proper suspension, in order to allow all the amendments contained in the maxi amendment to be analysed. However, given that at 6 p.m. the House will have to be sanitized at this point, instead of suspending the sitting for a quarter of an hour, perhaps work could be resumed directly at 7 p.m., so that there is plenty of time to analyse the maxi amendment and for sanitization, so that we can then start again. This is how I read the speeches that preceded me. What are we gonna do in 15 minutes with all this unproposity? I'd say we need more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u121	Colleagues, we need to clarify this point. Minister D'Incà raised the question of trust. I have stated that I cannot accept the text which was adopted in the Commission and have the list of amendments distributed. The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government, as deleted. However, before submitting, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amendment to the Budget Commission, given that the rapporteur, together with others, has asked me to check the list of amendments which have already been distributed and the amendments which I have deleted from the maxi amendment, I suspend the sitting for twenty minutes until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.40 p.m. and resumed at 6.04 p.m.) In fact, in the list of impproposities of the maxi amendment, amendments 27.0.7 and 27.0.0.9 did not include the specification that was text 2. Everything else is fine. Amendment 1.0.52 should be deleted from the general list. Unfortunately, some inaccuracies can occur out of 4,000 amendments. Having said that, I am passing on the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission, which has already been authorised to convene, to the rapporteur in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Presidents to organise the debate on the issue of trust. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.06 p.m. and resumed at 7.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u122	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the decree-law on health protection and economic support measures related to the Covid emergency. For the discussion on confidence, one hour and twenty minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. They will follow the final explanations of vote and call it. It has also been established that tomorrow's sitting will begin at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u123	The Presidency points out that the list in distribution on impproponibilità must be corrected, in the sense that the reference to amendment 23.0.8 should be understood as 23.0.8 (text 2), identical to amendment 23.42.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u124	Mr President, the discussion of this abnormal decree-law is coming to an end. I would like to remind you that this is the first time that a decree has been followed by three others, which are then part of it by means of amendments. So you can talk about a decree-laws four-in-one restors. The ritual verification of the inadmissibility for the House has led to the deletion of twenty amendments, eleven of them with texts 2, 3 and even 4. But I want to stress that there has been another tear from the Rules of Procedure and practices of this Government by its majority, by other blows to the Constitution. In short, we have already had to see the almost systematic overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, now abolished, and above all always and regularly the trust placed on the various decrees-laws. I remember - and I would like to remind you every time - that there should be a balance enshrined in the Constitution, which speaks of a balance that must always be maintained between the five constitutional bodies. Let's go over it together: President of the Republic, Parliament, Government, Constitutional Court and judiciary. It seems to me that this balance is being ripped off by a lot of them and they are being made, above all, by continuing to do so. And every time a tear is made, it's a precedent that in time is maintained: a thing of unheard of gravity [[Applause]] , but for which there is absolute silence. They're all dangerous precedents. Many of our colleagues in the majority have challenged the way we conduct ourselves, which is called obstructionism. But how? The Movimento 5 Stars makes 1,109 amendments (15 percent) and everything is fine, while the League makes 1,281 (18 percent) and does obstruction? But what does the majority demand? [[Applause]] Should we not table amendments and not use the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure? Or even singing "Viva Conte presidente," do we say what a great mind it is? You want us to sing the songs? [[Applause]] That's crazy. If part of the majority has tabled 1,109 amendments, it means that it is not satisfied with the decree clearly, otherwise why submit so many proposals for amendments? It means that in your opinion the decree on our examination is incomplete. In our opinion it certainly is, it is not a good decree-law. Above all, I wanted to say that our amendments are aimed at improving the text and refreshing many completely forgotten realities. I want to give an example that I think is very significant. In such a green era, in which every day there is talk of a green turning point and it is said that we have to change ways of life, production, attention and culture, we were all convinced that we had to save the world of beekeeping. We all know that bees are at the center of the entire ecosystem that depends on them. They are in fact responsible for about 70 percent of the pollination of all living plant species and guarantee 35 percent of the global food production. I was convinced that our amendment on this subject would be adopted with enthusiasm and unanimity and was ignored. So, even your being green is fake, because then, to the test of the facts, as this has been ignored many categories and many sectors behind which there are real people and real families. What happens to them? Istat reported, a few days ago, a shocking fact: out of 73,000 companies in crisis 17,000 will not reopen. How many people, how many families, how many stories, how much despair behind all this. But there wasn't enough capacity. It can be understood, but the provision is truly incomplete. You could have done so much. In the end, however, after all the work in the Commission, after all this, the Government has still called for confidence, always in the usual way and - I say this in response to the many colleagues who have also contested this - we have certainly contracted a debt. First there is survival, but if there is no support for development, we will not go very far. To our children and grandchildren in the backpacks we will put stones, that is the debts that will prevent them from living in a phase of development and recovery. This aspect is truly of a unique gravity. That's why we're talking about foresight. We need to think about survival and refreshment, but also about the possibility of development and - in our opinion - this indispensable part to re-launch GDP, development and employment is too weak. The rest of Europe is going at another speed, it puts more figures into it. It's a lot of money, but we've never seen so many. If they're used badly, it's really gonna be ruin. We keep saying it, we keep screaming it. We tried to work best, even with responsible behavior. We have made serious proposals on which agreements have been reached, but a great many legal amendments have been completely ignored. I am also sorry because I recognise that there have been talks with some of the Commission's colleagues and also with the Government that are important and absolutely appreciable, but then, in the end, the speech is always the same. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, should also be furious, because it cannot be said that as a center-right and as an opposition we have had 380 million. The fact is that Parliament has been treated very badly, because you too could have had so many serious proposals to make, but the Government, of us, but also of you, honestly, does not matter so much. [[Applause]] I think that, above all, it is a very serious matter and I am sorry that the majority, all things considered, do not say so much about this fact. They're changing this country and it's okay, it's okay, but are we talking about our institution, our constitution, but is it sacred every other day? This really seems very serious to me. We are already ald, I do not understand why the figure that was supposed to be used for dd in the budget law has not been put in place, but we have been told that it probably would not resist the ferocious and hungry attacks of some parts. In a month we'll be here talking about the D.I.D. I don't know how it's gonna end. My colleagues and I of the League are genuinely concerned, but we will continue to play our part seriously. I hope you understand that it is also hard to oppose and sincerely hear us say, as we even have to oppose it seems to me something outside the world. [[Applause]] We continue to do what we believe is right, in a serious and always representative way of companies, families and citizens, who deserve attention even if they are small and in areas that seem insignificant. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u125	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u126	Mr President, this is the debate on confidence and it is therefore no longer the debate on the substance of the measure. The confidence, which is a general act on the work of the Government, is without regard to the merit of the measure on which we have tried, and only partially obtained, to achieve our own improvement intervention, like all the forces of the center-right and the opposition. It is a matter of trust and therefore in this case we can only forcefully express our no. We have said no on other occasions to this Government, which expels Parliament and its President, who expels the Government. We have said no to this majority that, in the middle of the emergency, Covid is divided - it seems - on matters of ministries and armchairs (get off me) and here is the first anomaly that I want to highlight to this House. It is trusted and discussed while a government check is in place. Here you put trust, in full budget session in the House, with a government check in place. There is a check on your government and at the same time ask Parliament for confidence. Is this about chairs? It is not a question of armchairs, I believe, because it is worse: it is a question of cash, money and intelligence, of Services. One of you said that, a former President of the Council, when he spoke about the Services, the delegation, the Cyber Institute of our country. And it's a cash problem, and I'd say bank or bank. We know very well that you are beating up on the little darling. I here in the Chamber the other day, speaking of the President of the Council, defined him as Gollum in the saga... the Lord of the Rings. Think of the scene in which Gollum is around the little treasure and tells others that the little treasure is his and only his, and you, all around this supposed little treasure, say that no, it is also yours. It's not just his little treasure, it's yours too. Let's talk about the recovery fund, which is neither ours nor yours, it's ours and your children because they will be forced to pay the debts we charge. That, too, is why we are saying no today. I address my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars who used the image of the opener opening the tuna boxes: what you are doing is the trap of democracy, which you are doing because today we need a lot of money. Italy is in fact the country that increases the public debt more than others and because it has the enterprises in suffering more than others. Who puts this money and why is it money, money and banks? A sovereignist - who perhaps is not - like Federico Fubini, as well as others who invite you to read that, on the other hand, they are part of your Pantheon, in the "Corriere della sera" the other day tells us that there is a strange tension between Paris and Rome for many projects, for the Gaia project, for space and air, for the 5G, for the payment system. What do these French people want? It also tells us that between Paris and The Hague, between Paris and Holland, under German supervision, there is a strange wandering around Europe. What does Federico Fubini say, and not a sovereignist? He says that they are trying to close all the roads opened by the Italian government in recent years to save the operation of the banks. With the ESM, the banking union and many others, they are closing all the way to rescue the banks. I don't say it, says the "Corriere della sera" and Federico Fubini. This is because in Italy, someone suspects, that Paris is trying to close the loophole for bailouts in order to lay the foundations of a new season of acquisition of Italian banks in difficulty by Paribas, Société generale, Crédit Agricole and much more. Why am I talking about banks right here with you two? The Democratic Party and the Five Star Movement? And why do I do that on this occasion? Because while we have proposed and obtained - and we thank the Presidency for safeguarding that amendment - that the golden power, which we ourselves asked the Government in March and then the Government granted us in April to extend it to the banking and insurance system of our country - we and you have granted it to us - and not by chance to the subjects of the European Union, was extended beyond the imminent deadline of 31 December, obtaining it for another six months. You therefore have the tools to protect what I do not, but the "Corriere della sera" complaint is preparing as the bag of banks and Italian savings. Yes, you have the tools, but in the meantime you are working badly because - I say it here and I will repeat it - it is happening on the Italian banks that while we are discussing and providing you with the instrument to protect Italy, you, in the Chamber of Deputies, in the budgetary maneuver you have inserted a rule, moreover without defining the appropriation, which facilitates aggregations and mergers between banks in order to compensate for what is about to happen, to what even Draghi has denounced today, a new wave of insolvencies, of deteriorated credits that will put at risk the system of our country. Nagel, a banker, has been called an atomic bomb. I am referring to that rule, which, as you may see, does not have an appropriation, but is referred to in the newspapers as 3 billion, for Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena. We are talking about a bank that has already cost the State 14 billion euros (it is difficult to do the accounts, but do them with me) between first rescue, recapitalisation, ristori to the shareholders and then the purchase by AMCO of 8 billion deteriorated credits. Then in these hours the CEO Mustier jumped (an early jump), because we stopped him on the assumption that he would sell, that he would split the international part of Unicredit to give it to French and Germans in exchange for the merger with Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, with your bank. You have allocated 3 billion on that rule to facilitate the merger and then another 2.5 billion thanks to the so-called August decree to promote the recapitalisation. Then there's the 10.2 billion maneuver you have to guarantee. Colleagues of the 5 Stars, we make the sums and, at best, we reach 20 billion euros, but that can reach 30 billion euros - right? Is that it? - how much is the recovery fund worth for Italy! Well, the Movimento 5 Stars presents an amendment that has been placed in the Chamber, because precisely on this is being carried out the verification of Government: if bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena remains in the hands of the 5 Stars, who took possession of it a few months ago and who wants to make a public bank together with Carige and the Banca Popolare di Bari, or if the bank of PD returns to the PD that took Unicredit with Padoan. That's what we're talking about. [[Applause]] You're getting caught up and the check is on who takes the bank, on which company it does it, whether that of the 5 stars or that of Bersani, Gualtieri and Padoan. That's what you're sacrificing the country about.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u127	Conclude Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u128	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr. President, I understand that for you... No, Senator, he just finished your time. I would never allow myself, so finish, since your time is over. Mr Urso (FdI). If that 500 million amendment were approved, it would blow the Monte Paschi di Siena (or rather it would remain public), but it would allow a single bank, Crédit Agricole and the French, to do the Valtellina Credit with public money. It's worth 450 million. They'd be the only ones to do it. As a result, the Italian system would be discovered. Other things I'll tell you these days when the draft budget law comes to the Senate exam. That's all that's enough for now. To conclude, the verification is on who you take the Italian banks and we will not allow this [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u129	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u130	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I continue to think (and this is the position of the Democratic Party) that the confrontation between the majority and the opposition in the Joint Commissions has been useful and constructive, I repeat. In many cases, I would like to repeat this to my colleagues who have just spoken, beginning with Senator Urso, the vote of confidence comes after voting on the mandate to the rapporteur, after having approved in the Commission, on an orderly path, several amendments, the result of constructive cooperation between majority and opposition. The speakers carried out a complex and difficult task with balance; the Government helped to foster a constructive dialogue between majority and opposition. These are the facts. It is not necessary to raise the tone of voice, indeed in many cases the screams hide the absence of proposals and propositive content useful to this Assembly and especially to the country in the management of such a difficult phase as that of the pandemic that we are going through. These are the facts that confirm that a confrontation between majority and opposition is useful and that the confrontation between majority and opposition has developed in the fullness of its functioning. The question of trust is posed after these votes and after this orderly and constructive path. If many issues, starting with the exemption from COSAP and TOSAP, from the subject of doctoral students, from the support to health residences, so important and so difficult in this pandemic management, as well as the intervention to promote the reduction of rent fees, along with the many other proposals that I want to highlight for clarity, from the reduction of the weight of energy bills to the interventions useful to the system of the Regions and the transport system in this country, are all issues that have seen a broad consensus within the Commission and are the result, and therefore the enrichment, of a useful and complex legislative perspective. We are in fact in the presence of four decrees converted into one, which I believe should be a not so small patrimony, as in many cases it has been represented here. I say this because I have great respect for the prerogatives of the opposition, but the context I have told is not compatible with the many statements I have heard in this House from my colleagues in the centre-right: that is to say, to give the Government responsibility for the second pandemic wave and to ask for it every now and then (I dare say almost often) resignation is, I believe, the worst face of an irresponsible opposition that not only shows its opposition to the Government, but hinders the common good, that is, Italian families and businesses. This exercise I believe represents the worst face of the prerogatives so important that instead oppositions could represent, because within an Italian pandemic is an anomaly the request for resignation, a criticism without content and in many cases a criticism that finds the non truth of the proposals compared to the acts acquired by the Government. It's an Italian anomaly. In every corner of the country this pandemic has a hard and difficult face. The second pandemic wave has crossed Italy like all other European countries and if we look at the mortality rate, which Istat puts in front of us today, we are faced with a mortality rate that exceeds that of a war. And if we are faced with a path (I do not want to anticipate) that will probably have to see us protagonists of the management of a third pandemic wave, that we hope to avoid and to avert, this framework requires responsibility. You must remove unnecessary screams and insults and make constructive proposals in the interest of the country. [[Applause]] This is the challenge facing us, as far as we are concerned. We are fully aware that we are talking about more than 20 billion euros, 8 billion new debt and 12 billion re-use of resources that were already included in public finance balances. They are useful resources because the Ateco codes have limits, but they have allowed the Agency revenue, in rapid times, to guarantee refreshments that in some way have done a work of prevention in the face of possible social conflicts, because when new limitations are introduced the risk of a social conflict grows. So, ladies and gentlemen, I say this very clearly: we must get rid of the idea that in an emergency we can deal with unresolved structural issues. I believe that the Government has produced numerous reform decrees and will prepare others in the coming weeks also for the month of January; it is not the result of a lack of planning, but it is the result of the need to read the economic dynamics in order to give adequate answers to complex and unpublished economic dynamics that we will have to face. I could give a trivial example: we must also put in the cellar the backdrop and the debate of the past. I have heard from representatives of the center-right and the opposition of a white fiscal year, of less taxes for all, of suspending the tax burden and revenue of our country. See that there is no space; it is something unfair and unjust. We will have to work more and more on fairness and reducing inequalities because this pandemic crisis confronts us with new inequalities and does not affect the whole economy in the same way. It will be necessary, from now on, if we want to accompany emergency management, a vision for the exit of the emergency. Hence the need for a fifth ristori decree in January, where we will have to do with great concreteness an analysis on the supply chains that replace that of the Ateco codes, which can serve in a first emergency, but are not the instrument and the answer compatible with the need to identify the most affected supply chains. One thing is the manufacturing that exports automatic machines to the world and another is tourism and services, which need to cover the entire supply chain. The new economic measures will have to identify the supply chains instead of the Ateco codes. I ask the government to take into account the work done in the Commissions. There are so many amendments that go towards the transformation of the Ateco codes into chains; they go in the direction of examining for some chains not month on month, but the quarter on quarter; they go in the direction of identifying the priorities for saving businesses, which are not all the same. This also concerns the issue of reducing the tax burden. Perhaps you have forgotten that the decree ristori-c is written to extend the tax deadlines, using seven of the 8 billion euros available about to start building the conditions to reduce the tax pressure. Even if this does not happen for everyone, as you are asking us, it will affect the sectors most affected by the crisis. There is no room for the demagogy of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, which continues to divide majority and opposition on inadequate slogans in the reading of the pandemic crisis because inequalities will increase and the need for progressiveness - which for you is a bad word, while for us it is beautiful and means making pay in proportion to the income produced - must also intervene to help businesses in a different way than those who are more affected by those who, perhaps, have not suffered the effects of the crisis or within the crisis has been able to withstand the challenge. In order to get out of the emergency, the need that we have today is to start accompanying in the next decree of measures to get out of the emergency. This means that several economic measures will probably have to be equated with the transformation into an energy key of the economy; several economic measures will have to be directly linked to the development of digital Italy. The various economic measures will therefore have to take account of the first programmes, the new framework in European dynamics and require new instruments. I only quote one for everyone. We will become increasingly aware that the ecological transition of energy and the economy and the digital transition require a universal training path. We will need selective shock absorbers, a training income and help the weak and fragile people who remain behind with their citizenship income, but we will need a training income to accompany the dynamics of work towards the future. Active policies require reform. So, I say very clearly that this must be the bar of the challenge. With the decree ristori it is necessary to begin to treat an exit of Italy from the crisis. This is not a lack of programming, but the ability to read the pandemic relapses that we have to face together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u131	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u132	Mr President, representatives of the Government, since yesterday afternoon and throughout the morning we have seen a surreal debate on one of the restaurants, two refreshments, three refreshments and four refreshments. Now, as has rightly been announced and recalled, we know that there will be the five refreshments. Yet, the thing that surprised me most in this phase of interweaving that there is between the different decrees-laws, one inside the other like Chinese boxes - in which you really do not understand what contains the one, but you understand how easy it is that it is in contradiction with the one that precedes it and with the one that follows it - what, I repeat, really surprised me were three testimonies of a few minutes ago. The first was that of the Government, concretely in the person of the Undersecretary of War, who rightly wanted to claim the quality of the work done also by Parliament, the Senate, recognizing limits and errors of the measures as they had come out of the hands of the Government. It was a very calm tone his, I would say very humble, but clearly oriented to underline the structural limits of the documents that were delivered to us and the failure to review the same documents, the one next to the other, that the Government should first have done. The Government should have sought the summation of what it presented to Parliament and not entrusted to Parliament the various texts so that we could grasp the contradictions, the convergences, and therefore propose - in a constructive summary - the positive elements. This work has been lacking precisely by the Government; I do not say it, of course, but the Undersecretary has said it and it is in the act. The second testimonial that I would like to stress - it has also struck me very much - refers to when my colleague Senator Pharaoh, the leader of Italy Viva, rose up asking for ten minutes, a quarter of an hour, that is, the time it takes to try to understand what the hell we would have voted for. Now, obviously he is not an opposition leader; he is a majority leader, but at this point we could all imagine that - we know - those of Italy Viva every day that passes there have one to negotiate their position and their role within the Government and try to count more. In short, we could have thought that the good Pharaoh took that position to highlight and denounce the fact that we were urged to vote on a regulatory instrument whose content the same majority was unaware. The third testimony that struck me was that of the rapporteur, who said first of all that he wanted to read what we would vote for. The rapporteur, the guarantor of the law, the one who somehow guarantees not only the final product but also the procedures in the light of the premises, did not know what we would vote for; therefore, he rightly asked for time. The government, a majority party and the draftsman of the law were before what we would once call a mysterious object: I don't know what they are asking us for trust. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that calling for confidence on an object that the main perpetrators do not know what it contains is an act of great arrogance. It is an act that means: no matter what I tell you, you give me confidence because I rule, because you are you and so you have to trust. It is very difficult, as they say, to trust and trust someone who does not know what he is asking for, someone who has lost sight of the trial, because when the rapporteur says he wants to read what is written it means that he himself has lost sight of Ariadne's thread, which should have gone through the whole process. Gentlemen, in a few minutes you will ask us for the trust name, we already know how it will end: the opposition will clearly say no, being in the truth of the facts; the majority will say yes for some mysterious alchemy, because you yourself do not know what the facts really are. Majority and opposition will however be condemned to a game of the parties in which the opposition will act on the side that does not cooperate and does not cooperate because it cannot give a consent to conditions of such grave disinformation. Consensus, we all learn, is an informed consensus: without the correctness of information consent is really an abuse of trust, a radical lack of that extraordinary virtue for the art of good governance that is prudence. I refer to things that have been said a few minutes ago by the interlocutors we have all been able to listen to, in a context in which everything is completely in the act. Having said that, it is clear that, in this sequence of decrees of refreshment, we look with horror also to the fifth decree, yet another provocation. But is it possible that the government can't think of today, I don't mean for the day after tomorrow, but for tomorrow? Is it possible that he should think of a day for the hour, for the hic et nunc, for this moment why, changing the conditions to the outline, he must change also the norm given? This improvisation is truly detrimental to the dignity of the Senate. What is serious, first of all, is the fact that the Government always ignores, totally and systematically the proposals of the opposition, as if the opposition were made of people who only want to create prejudice to the country, without realizing that instead there is a vision, that at certain times it can be even more free, less conditioned and able to look even beyond the immediate result of the popular consensus in a dialectic that winds up in search of a consensus too banal and too easy. In this sense I think about when every night on television we hear that things are getting better and better, that we are always the best, that our vaccine would come first - a pity that maybe it will come fourth, fifth or penultimate - or that maybe the infections decrease and that, if they increase, it is always the fault of the people who are on the street, or without mask or simply in a relationship too close. But we are never told why we are the country where we die the most in Europe: nobody tells us. They do not even tell us - in the strategic vision of the decrees one, two, three, four and perhaps even five - why the epidemic actually still sees a very high rate of people dying, nor do they tell us why Draghi, President until recently of the ECB, comes out in all the newspapers to declare that the economic situation we are facing will be far more serious than is said. There is therefore a system deception, which I believe is also the result of system ignorance, the inability to govern, predict and assume responsibilities for the future. How can trust be sought? I will be silent now, Mr President, and thank you very much. I ask you, however, how can we ask for confidence in an object when, until a few minutes ago, neither the majority, nor the Government, nor the rapporteur himself knew what it was about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u133	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u134	Mr President, we are here to discuss - a debate for the truth not very crowded - about trust in the Matrioska decree, we can call it that, a decree-law that contains other decrees: it started as a decree one restorative, then inside it we put in the decree two restorative and, to follow, the three and the four, which made, among other things, fascinating its processing, as well as the piece of government here, a piece dear to us and certainly relevant to its task, even if perhaps some Minister of the economic area would have comforted us with its presence, but we will try to talk about numbers and the theme. [[Applause]] As in the Flemish counterpoint, the processing had to be done backwards. Since the last decree was an amendment of the first, in fact, it was necessary to start from the last to go back to the first. All beautiful things, which have been the subject of fascinating lessons for our voters who follow us on social media. I do not go into the subject matter of the Matrioska decree for the time being, and I see the rapporteur concerned. Only on the subject of trust do I feel like opening and closing the debate immediately. In the end, in fact, we have spent a lot of time, thanks also to the work of the rapporteurs and thanks to the excellent work of the Presidents of the Commission (which I do not see here, because one is now engaged), to work constructively, with these technical difficulties that have made this decree-law very compelling. We have gone from a few thousand amendments to a few dozen amendments, on which we have agreed. Therefore, we thought we could go to ordinary processing of the measure in the Chamber and to a conversion by voting: that act which, apparently, to this Government, or to relevant pieces of it, is quite allergic and unpleasant. Suddenly, however, the question of trust arises as a surprise. So, the reflection that one makes is this: if one has to put confidence in a decree whose conversion involves 40 votes, what does this mean? It means that you are the first not to trust yourself. On the assumption that you know each other better than we do, why, then, should we trust you if you do not trust yourself? [[Applause]] Do not trust the point of armor, with confidence, a measure on which, basically, there was an agreement, I do not mean iron, nor tin, between majority and opposition. I don't know if I made myself clear. What is the political significance of this trust? Not so much for you, because you know it better than me, than for someone out here. The debate on trust, therefore, is soon closed. It is not up to me to make an explanation of vote, but the explanation of vote is in things. Given, however, that someone before wanted content, I take advantage of giving some data, so let's consider what we are talking about. In 2020, in July, the Bank of Italy predicted that the Italian economy would decrease by 9.5%; then it became a little more optimistic and gives, for this year, a result of less 9 percent. Goldman Sachs is even more optimistic: it gives us less than 8.7 percent. In Germany, all forecasts give less than 5.8 percent. So, we are over 3 points lower than Germany in this ranking. But what will happen next year? This is interesting, because Goldman Sachs, extremely optimistic, in 2021 gives us 6 percent. Consensus forecasts give us 5.5%. Bankitalia, in July, gave us 4.8 percent. Again Bankitalia, in the December forecast, after seeing the important firepower deployed by this Government, rethinks it and gives us 3.5%. At the end of the year, with information on the measures taken during 2020, it revised growth by less than 1.3 points for 2021. Still Banca d'Italia informs us that it will take three years to return to the level of GDP of 2019. When we return to the GDP level of 2019, it will be 2023; and in 2023 we will be where we were in 2019, that is about five points below the income of 2007, which, in the meantime, will have become the income of sixteen years before. Let's talk, then, about the busy. Always the Bank of Italy says that this year we will go to less than 1.8. So, next year, we're gonna have a bounce? No, there's gonna be a drag at minus 1. Since when does it bounce? Since 2022. Yeah, but 2022 needs a glass ball. Looks like it's going to be a 1.6 and then a 1.2. So maybe in 2023 we'll have a little bit of the same jobs as in 2019. All this in front of a state machine where the only thing that works at full speed is the tax system. I don't know if you've seen the titles of "Italy today", which spoke of 31 million acts: all right, they have a little' inflated the number, putting together the Agency of Revenues (ADE) and Agency of Revenues - Recovery (ADER) and doing a big mischief, but there are still 10 million folders that will start again at the beginning of the year. So, why did we do this to ourselves? We do not like the approach that the Government is following, because it is based on four principles: postpone, postpone, postpone and, yes, postpone. To postpone the tax deadlines, without wanting to make a decision of any kind on their management. At some point, however, a line will have to be drawn and then what will happen? Then send back with the guarantees: the famous firepower was not money that put the state, but that should have put the banking system (with an act of love, which then was not so overwhelming) and against which the state put the guarantee. You know and know very well that many entrepreneurs, small, medium and large, will not be able to repay these loans. We did not want to intervene in a different way and we wanted to leave it to those who will come after the burden of covering the guarantees, when they will be questioned. To send back with all the various tax credit measures, which are a simple deferred revenue, which opens another insidious hole, from the contours not easily quantifiable, in the state budget. Finally, to send back also with the destined patrimony, because in the end you have to see how this measure will be managed. We are trying to study the regulation, in the Finance and Treasury Committee, by examining Government Act No 222. Therefore, depending on how it will be conducted and depending on those for whom you have conceived it - on this, then, in the end, there would be some reasoning - it is another intervention, which risks becoming a debt for future generations and, of course, for future governments. It is those same governments which, however, poor people, know that they will not be able to govern, because Dr De Benedetti said on television that, when we arrive, the European Union will crush us. If you do not crush us, colleagues, we will be crushed by the debts you have left us, but we are ready to face this fate with courage and also to say what we have done and what has been done in other countries. The result of Italy, in fact, is not born, as this left insistently tries to demonstrate, from an anthropological inferiority of the Italians, but from mistakes made by this Government. In the meantime, I would like to mention the issue of fiscal peace. We must also ask ourselves the question of what to do, when it will no longer be possible to postpone and we have a proposal: to reopen the terms of the dismantling- ter, to intervene with a simplified definition of the litigation and to make a deletion of the mini-folders. [[Applause]] These are all things that would also relieve much of the running costs of the treasury machine. We also propose that we intervene with the lost fund. You say there's no room, but you see that he's found him in Germany. While we have made 108 billion euros of deviation, in convenient installments of 25 billion euros, a little more or less, in Germany they have made two one of 156 billion euros and one of 130 billion euros, and a real lost fund, first with the Soforthilfe and then with the Überbrückungshilfe, and the companies have arrived the money (before 18 billion euros) and the first lost fund is more than all the small pieces of lost fund that we have seen coming to us. [[Call the president back.]] I am beginning to finish, Mr President. Why didn't you want to do that? I'll tell you right now, and I'll finish here. Before you accused us of being a force that has a twentieth-century conception of politics, but you, colleagues, have an eighteenth-century view of the currency and you have not understood how it works. The ECB would have covered and it's covering. So how do you want to justify these delays? Is it subalternity with respect to Brussels or fear that, having too much money available, the internal contradictions of the majority will explode in the assault on diligence? Tell us, but solve this problem, because the country can no longer afford to wait. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u135	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the ristori decree currently under discussion. We can define it, in order of degree, the most important after the decree I raise, which has cushioned the effects of the first hard lockdown last spring. I consider it the most important in terms of speed, efficiency and ability to support at all levels the social fabric of our country. We found ourselves ready, when the conditions of the pandemic state suddenly and again aggravated, because all the additional necessary restrictions, if not supported by adequate support, could have undermined the holding of so many companies in danger, already tried, that since the beginning of summer are divided, have invested in order to be able to reopen, have supported the supply of jobs and then unfortunately have had to lower the shutters again, because of this lasting pandemic. The economy, despite the hard blow, holds and the results obtained as we touch are the result of intense work of study and analysis by the Government and our (Parliament) on the socio-economic and financial instruments and data that we have at our disposal now. The experience of the first lockdown in March has shown us an unequivocal fact: the best tool to quickly refresh our companies was the direct credit to the account. The data in our possession, relating to the first tranche of March, allowed those who had already taken advantage of the lost fund a very rapid credit. Precisely because speed was the priority, we at Movimento 5 Stars have expressly asked the Government to ensure speed and automation in compensation to the companies involved in this serious pandemic crisis. The positive work of the Revenue Agency has ensured, in the first ten days, the delivery of one billion euros at national level, for a total of about 200,000 companies in crisis affected by the second pandemic wave. The data also tell us that the constraints have been respected in order to ensure greater revenue to the regions placed immediately in the red zone, compared to the others. On this too, the objective of achieving concrete results in a short time has been achieved. The ristori decree was only the starting point, followed by other measures. It was the first demonstration that the state was there and that it was able to give a concrete response in a very short time. I would stress once again the importance of what has just been described, because it is important to point out that, at the beginning of the second wave of infection, the majority responded promptly, taking action again and as quickly as possible. As soon as the new restrictions were taken, on 24 October, within a few hours, a very important decree was written and issued for the country's estate. That is why, in the preamble, I have stressed the greatest importance of the ristori decree since the beginning of the pandemic. Not intervening soon would have meant widespread social emergency, total crisis in the enterprise sector and serious risk of economic depression, even ten years. To get into more detail, let's talk about numbers. I'm talking about it, too, but my parents are different. At the date of December 10, the payments of all the automatic contributions provided for by the four decrees were completed (so we are talking about things already happened), for a total amount that exceeds 2.3 billion euros. Credits were made from a minimum of four days to a maximum of fifteen, compared to the publication in the Official Journal of the relevant decrees. To these transfers are added the 6,6 billion euros paid by the Agency of the revenues, relative to the I throw again decree. In addition, 28,000 non-refundable contributions were made for the exercises open to the public in the historic centers of the Italian cities, the most touristic ones, who applied on the Agency's website. Therefore, in total, at 7 December 2020, the non-refundable contributions and the resources provided by the Agency amount to more than € 9 billion, while the beneficiaries' audience is 2.4 million VAT consignments. Of this total mountain, 1.8 billion have reached the catering sector (bars, restaurants, pizzerias); more than 2 billion euros have been allocated to the retail trade (supermarkets, discount stores, pharmacies, newsstands and others) and the wholesale one; more than half a billion euros to the construction sector. The decree-law which is the subject of today's debate, however, is not only a lost fund. We are also talking about supporting entertainment, cinema, travel agencies, export and trade fairs. We are talking about an extension of the integration fund, the blocking of redundancies, the cancellation of the second IMU instalment, the exemption and suspension of contributions, the incentive to smart working and two other monthly emergency income, on which I will return. We are also talking about other innovations, apparently small, but significant, such as the extension of microcredit, the reduction of energy bills, the discount of the State to be applied to the owners of housing that will reduce rents to our citizens who live for rent. We have tried to do this with due attention, proposing to return to the owners of the real estate a part, up to half, of the discounted amount to the tenants, just to allow that the crisis does not go to burden on the owners and that, at the same time, brings a concrete advantage to the tenants in difficulty and to the families, who will be able to see reduced concretely the rent of the house. So many things like this are the concrete answers to those who accuse us of distributing funds to rain and nothing else. I would add that the interventions just listed are only a minimal part of the great and organic work done by the Government, first, and then by Parliament. And everything seems to be except a mere distribution of resources without complementary interventions. It must also be said that, in a moment of crisis that has no precedent in the history of the Italian Republic, just issued the first decree, the majority worked in immediacy on the next steps to be taken in order not to leave anyone behind. From this motion are born the decrees-ristori bis, ter and quac decrees, through which one after the other, we have widened the audience of the beneficiaries and introduced very important novelties. I would like to stress one aspect, dear to me, but also to all the Movimento 5 Stars. In the Ristori-ter decree, we renewed this year, with a further EUR 400 million, the fund to enable the municipalities to adopt urgent measures of food solidarity, to give support to those who are most in difficulty. I'm talking about food difficulties, which is very serious. No other political force has been so close to the fragile and the last in this country. And if, alongside this measure, we insert the income of citizenship, which authoritative sources report to be a decisive, important and fundamental tool for a population group that has found itself catapulted without defense in this pandemic, and the emergency income, which we strongly wanted and now extended, we can affirm that the virtuous circle of good spending, citizenship income and emergency income has allowed the most fragile population of this country not to give in to carelessness, degradation and despair. We have preserved intact the dignity of Italian families and citizens. This is the Movimento 5 Stars and from these values we are born. We are defending the last, the excluded, and we are paying attention to the requests for help from all citizens, businesses and VAT consignments, as we have shown over the last few months. I shall conclude, Mr President, by stressing the work and commitment that the Government, this majority and the Movimento 5 Stars have made during the process of these decree-laws. Our best way of responding to the needs of the country is through immediate and concrete measures, not empty lists of words, which have unfortunately been heard in this House; concrete measures, which go to the aid and support of our community; measures linked to the recovery plan and the vision of tomorrow; measures just like this which we are approving today in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u137	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at the end of the work of the 5th Commission. (The sitting was suspended at 8.10 p.m. and resumed at 10.20 p.m.) Let's get back to work. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,900, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law, as deleted as a result of the eligibility screening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u138	The Economic and Budget Planning Commission, examined by the Government's amendment 1,900 relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, and obtained the technical report, expresses, as far as it is competent, a non-obstacle opinion conditional, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, on the deletion, in Article 15, of the words "Paragraph 9" shall be deleted, and on the deletion of paragraph 5-c of Article 19-b. The opinion shall also be subject, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to the following amendments: - Paragraph 14-c of Article 1 shall be replaced by the following: To the burdens deriving from this article valued in 2.935 million euros for the year 2020 and equal to 280 million euros for the year 2021, of which 477 million euros for the year 2020 and 280 million euros for the year 2021 consequent to the order of the Minister of Health of 4 November 2020, published in the Official Journal, General Series, n. 276 of 5 November 2020, the amount of 2.930 euros for the year 2020 pursuant to Article 34 and 5 million euros for the year 2020, through the use of the resources deriving from the repeal of the provision referred to in paragraph 13 of 2020, - to article 6-a, paragraph 7 is replaced by the following: ==References====External links== The costs arising from paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 6 of this Article, amounting to EUR 860 million for 2020 and EUR 140 million for 2021, shall be covered in accordance with Article 34. after Article 7, the following paragraphs are inserted: "In Article 8, in paragraph 4, the words "in 259,2 million euros for the year 2020 and in 86,4 million euros for the year 2021" are replaced by the following: "in 274,5 million euros for the year 2020" and "in 91,5 million euros for the year 2021" The following amendments shall be made to Article 9: "in paragraph 4, the words "121,3" shall be replaced by the following: "137," " (a) the following amendments shall be made to Article 9: (a) paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: ==References====External links== For the year 2021, the landlord of residential property, located in a municipality with high housing voltage, which constitutes the principal dwelling of the tenant and which reduces the rent of the lease, outstanding at the date of 29 October 2020, shall be granted, within the maximum amount of expenditure referred to in paragraph 4, a grant of up to 50% of the reduction of the rent up to the maximum annual limit of EUR 1,200 per landlord. (b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 3 (a.k.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a. By measure of the Director of the Agency of Revenues, to be adopted within sixty days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree, are identified the modalities of application of this article and the percentage of reduction of the fee through proportional part in relation to the applications submitted, also for the purpose of respect of the limit of expenditure referred to in paragraph 4, as well as the modalities of monitoring of the communications referred to in paragraph 2, in article 13-b.9, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: ==References====External links== Exceptionally, in view of the epidemiological emergency situation from COVID-19, by way of derogation from Article 8 (3) of Legislative Decree No 184 of 30 April 1997, the payments of INPS voluntary contributions, due for the period from 31 January 2020 to 31 December 2020, are considered valid, even if carried out late, provided that within the following two months and in any case by 28 February 2021. To the burden deriving from the paragraph 11-a, estimated in 1,2 million euros for the year 2021, 3,3 million euros for the year 2022, 5 million euros for the year 2023, 3,5 million euros for the year 2024, 0,1 million euros for the year 2025 and 0,5 million euros for the year 2026, is provided: a) as to 1,2 million euros for the year 2021, by corresponding reduction of the fund referred to in article 1, paragraph 200, of the law 23 December 2014 n. 190 as refinanced by article 34, paragraph 5 of this decree; b) as regards EUR 2.9 million for the year 2022, EUR 4 million for the year 2023, EUR 2.1 million for the year 2024 and EUR 0.5 million for the year 2026 by corresponding reduction of the fund referred to in Article 1 paragraph 200 of Law No 190 of 23 December 2014; c) as regards EUR 0.4 million for the year 2022, EUR 1 million for the year 2023, EUR 1.4 million for the year 2024 and EUR 0.1 million for the year 2025 by corresponding use of the higher revenues deriving from paragraph 11-a "; - in Article 23-c, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: '2. The charges deriving from this Article, amounting to 1 million euros from 2021, shall be paid by means of a corresponding reduction in the annual shares of the resources of the "Single Justice Fund" to be allocated by reassignment pursuant to Article 2 (7) (a) and (b) of Decree-Law No 143 of 16 September 2008, converted with amendments by Law No 181 of 13 November 2008, which, to this end, remain acquired at the entry of the State budget.'; - Article 32-a.l is replaced by the following: "Art. 32- bis.l (Written treatment of civil hearings by honorary magistrates) 1. For the purpose of payment of the hearing allowance referred to in Article 4 (1) of Legislative Decree No 273 of 28 July 1989 in favour of the honorary magistrates who exercise the function of honorary judge of the court, the procedure for carrying out civil hearings in written proceedings, referred to in Article 221, paragraph 4, of Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020, converted with amendments by the Law of Conversion No 77 of 17 July 2020, is considered to be equivalent to the procedure for conducting civil hearings in presence. 2. The implementation of the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall not result in new or increased public finance charges.'; - in Article 32-b, the following amendments shall be made: (a) in paragraph l-a, the words 'and autonomous provinces' and the words 'and autonomous provinces' shall be deleted; (b) the heading is replaced by the following: '2. The allocation of resources referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out by decree of the Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance, prior to agreement in the State-City Conference and local autonomy, to be adopted by 28 February 2021, in proportion to the expenses incurred in 2020 for the purchase and supply of water, as certified by the municipalities concerned by 31 January 2021.'; in Article 32-c (Provisions in favour of workers belonging to the PIP-Emergency Palermo basin), the following amendments shall be made: (a) Paragraph 1 shall be deleted; (b) paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: "2. Local authorities are authorised to continue employment relationships of personnel with atypical employment contract PIP basin - Emergency Palermo provided for in Regional Law No 2 of 26 November 2000, in existence or expired in 2020, until 31 December 2021. 3. The implementation of this Article shall not result in any new or increased burden on public finance. The administrations concerned shall comply with the requirements laid down in this Article with the use of human, instrumental and financial resources available under existing legislation."; in Article 34, paragraph 6, introductory wording, is replaced by the following: '6. To the burdens deriving from Articles 1, 1-a, 1-a, 1-a, 1-a, 2, 3, 5, 5, 6, 6-a, 8, 8-a, 9, 9-a, 9-b, 12-a, 12-a, 13-a, 13-b, 13-b, 2, paragraphs 3 and 4, 13-b, 13-b, 5, 13-c, 13-d, 13-e, 13-f, 13-n, 13-b, 15-a, 16, 16-a, 17-a, 19-b.l, 19-b.2, 19-c, 20, 21, 22-a, 22-b, 3l-b.7, 32, 32-a, 32-b and 33, and from paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 5, 9 and 10 of this Article, determined in total in EUR 19,021,356 million for the year 2020, 7,910,925 million euros for the year 2021, 16,50 million euros for the year 2022 and 2 million euros for the year 2020, and 2025 million euros for the year, up to the same ends ter.l, 13-b.2, 13-b.4, 13-b.5, 22, 32, 32-a, 9-b., 9-c. and paragraph 6 (a) of this Article.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u139	I ask the representative of the government if he accepts the remarks of the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u140	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u141	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 137 of 28 October 2020 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u144	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the restrictions linked to the second wave have led this measure to change its skin, increasing in number of articles and financial volume. All this has led to a precarious working method, with the intercourse not always optimal with the Government; we understand the emergency, but this way of proceeding is not acceptable and if we have accepted it it was purely a spirit of responsibility. However, I would like to thank the Minister for his relations with Parliament and undersecretary Castaldi, the Presidents of the Commissions and the rapporteurs because they were always available and guaranteed a good working environment. [[Applause.]] The resources made available with the four measures, which are certainly important for some sectors, will certainly not suffice. We are in a very delicate passage in which every new restriction has inflicted, to the already tormented body of our workers and our enterprises, increasingly wounded. A third wave would have dramatic repercussions and at that point it would certainly not be enough a budgetary deviation of 20 billion and not even one of 30. I would like this House to be fully aware of this point, namely that we cannot be guided by emotions: those that one day make everyone join the party of the openers, and the next day - because we see the photos of the shopping district - all of a sudden pass to that of the rigorists. It is a useless and dangerous swing that shows that the last few months have not taught us much. We must build paths guided at all times by rationality and common sense, and this also applies to experts, scientists, who cannot just say that when the contagions grow they must close, but they are called to make a more effective contribution, to building a perspective. They need to help politics build a medium- and long-term strategy, now that we know this virus better. [[Applause.]] And we must start immediately with vaccinations: Britain and the United States have already started; Germany will start on 23 December. We too must start vaccinations, because this will save lives every day. And every day of delay, it increases the number of deaths. Let's get started, and now! I said that we need a strategy, because the consequence of an approach is that there are real inequalities in the treatment of citizens and economic groups. The events related to summer tourism (the discos, the crowded beaches) have triggered a real prejudice to tourism, the mountains and winter activities. Yet, it is clear to everyone that they are not the same thing and it seems to me that the awareness of what it means to live in the mountains and to make the populated valleys a value in itself has not always been recognized by the Government. [[Applause]] Our mountain tourism operators and related sectors had worked on security protocols, presented by the regions concerned at the State-Regions Conference. After a month, they did not even receive a rag of response from the Scientific Technical Committee (CTS). This is not a respectful behavior, because they are institutions that know what their territories need. This is because all that tourism can remember has become a taboo, without realizing, for example, that with the closure of the plants there is no land management. And then really skiing is more dangerous than a walk in a park in Rome? Is lunch in the cabin really more dangerous than one in a city restaurant? Are a cable car and chairlift really more dangerous than a subway or bus? Isn't the line at a lift better organized than an assembly in a town square? [[Applause]] It is in questions such as these that it is becoming increasingly difficult to introduce new restrictions and to ensure that they are fully respected. Citizens must understand that the rules must be respected, but they must appear logical and fair, which means always proportionate to the risk potential of the various contexts. We'll talk about it tomorrow, but the protests about Christmas travel are born for exactly this kind of reason. In order to move on to the measure, Mr President, we welcome all the rules on tax deadlines, installments, extensions, suspensions and moratories, as well as the whole package for tourism, with the aid for seasonal thermal baths and those for retail trade, handicrafts and construction companies. However, we know that we will have to continue to intervene here, because there is a question of supply chain and input that requires constant attention and support, also in order to pass the appetite to some foreign investor who has already put his eyes on the valuable pieces of this sector (and there are many, believe me). I still do not accept that, when it comes to tourism, we are talking about tourism as a sector worth 10% or 12% of GDP. Everyone who knows a bit about the subject, in fact, knows that behind there is an extremely large supply chain: retail, agriculture, crafts, services and construction. We cannot therefore say that this is a sector that is worth all, but we must understand that behind there is a chain that, if it breaks down, prevents this country from progressing further. I want you to understand this and that in the Ristori decree five require real, and not small, refreshments for that tormented sector. [[Applause]] We must take an example from other countries that are our competitors: in Austria, 80% of the turnover lost; in Germany, 75% of the turnover lost; here are the refreshments that are needed for this sector. Thanks to an amendment by our Group, 2 million euros will be allocated to facilitate access to distance teaching for pupils in situations of fragility in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and in Valle D'Aosta. Then, with the rule on the A22, the Government has demonstrated the will to keep public the infrastructure: it is not yet decisive, but it constitutes a good starting point of that path, to guarantee the investments and to fully express its strategic value; we hope, all together, to be able to improve it. I am sorry, however, that other amending proposals, aimed at making the distribution of aid more effective, have not been accepted: I am thinking of the one to replace the Ateco codes with the criterion of loss of turnover on a multi-monthly basis. [[Applause]] and that on access to the Integration Fund for seasonal workers in sectors affected by suspensive measures, such as tourism workers, cable cars, trade and ski schools. This seems to me today to be one of the limits of the measure, because, as has been said several times, there is a risk that there will be no principle of fairness on the amount and the audiences concerned. We will be presenting these proposals again, while it is right to stress that, compared with previous measures, the speed of delivery of resources has been adjusted and, again, we know that times are not a secondary variable, but rather an element of substance. In conclusion, Mr President, as the Bank of Italy has said, the measures of these months have been able to mitigate the seriousness of the situation, but the companies have seen their bank exposure increase and this thanks also to the measures that have facilitated access to credit. This is, in the future, a risk element and a lack of economic rebound would also have serious consequences for banks. Once again, then, there is the need, not to say the urgency, to focus on growth policies, starting with the recovery plan. Today, €9 billion can be released from health care to consolidate other areas of intervention, if once and for all resistance to health MES yes or health MES is overcome. For the delays and limitations of our health system and for the progressive dismantling of basic territorial medicine, the incidence of the virus in terms of mortality unfortunately has no comparisons in the world. Those EUR 36 billion, or at least part of them, can be taken at once and are fundamental, if indeed, as some experts say, the third wave will be inevitable. Today we are still in time to give a shot of kidneys, starting with the simplest things, such as ensuring the presence of medical-infirmary staff. In this connection too, I am pleased that an amendment has passed, which provides for the extension of one year for contract staff, who do not have the certificate of bilingualism, because it allows the continuity of staff in our structures. It is true that much has been done, but now we need another qualitative leap forward on all fronts. Smart strategies are needed, because we're still inside the pandemic and the battle against Covid isn't over yet. For responsibility, therefore, I announce the Group's vote in favour for the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u147	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to convert the restorative decrees, a bunch of measures that seek to cushion the differentiated lockdown that the Government has decided to apply to this second wave of the Covid-19. It's a bunch of decrees that try to give timely answers to the activities that have been closed with the DPCM and the ordinances. When we talk about closed activities, we do it with great respect, because it is an absolutely strong word, which has dramatic repercussions. We say this knowing that the balance between health and economics is always very difficult and that, once again, health has had to take priority. We know very well, however, that those who have closed their activities can neither be content, nor satisfied, nor be refreshed by the few refreshments that have been made available to them. From the technical point of view, this package of measures is very simple in content, because it proposes rules that we have already seen in all the decrees approved this year, from the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni (CIG), to compensations, to the lost fund, to the tax credit for rents: we have only tried, at this moment, to bring them to the ground faster. Fortunately, at last, the procedures of the Revenue Agency and especially of the INPS at this time are working and therefore the resources have arrived or are about to arrive. For this reason, I would like to thank Mr Guerra and Mr Castaldi, the rapporteurs, Mr Marino and Mr Presutto, and all my colleagues, of majority and opposition, who have worked very hard and with great patience on this measure. Despite the very good human and relational climate, here we must also tell ourselves something very true: this complex conversion procedure, due to the stratification of the patetto of the decrees and their timing that made us use a FIFO method (first in first out) as if we were in a company warehouse, probably did not facilitate the parliamentary work. I am using this somewhat strong business jargon on purpose for a Parliamentary House. Perhaps in recent years, but even more so in that current we have become a warehouse that receives the decree-laws as parcels and sends them to the Official Journal almost as it received them. I think that, although the period is difficult, Parliament cannot give up its legislative power or give up its vocation, give the government the guidelines and confirm, from time to time, as we are going to do tonight, the confidence of the Government. It is a very important institutional issue and not even in a serious phase of Covid such as this we can become a governorate; we cannot do that. Since 2021 this unbalanced relationship between Government and Parliament must change, as well as the political approach of Parliament, which wants to choose the projects of recovery plan and Next generation Italy, what to do about green, digital, equality and social integration. No one else can decide that, except Parliament, which has the power to give the address. We want to animate the tables of tax reform, public administration (which we have seen is dramatically necessary) and also of justice. It is necessary to go back to making schools do schools in this country, but even more priority is the address that Parliament wants to give the government than the vaccination plan. This really becomes straightforward. Yesterday we heard the very clear words of Draghi, who said that the sustainability of the huge debt that we have made this year goes for the growth and realization of the projects of Next generation. This means that we must instantly put the vaccination plan in place, as they are doing in other parts of the world. In order to grow we have to go back to work and we can no longer insist in this struggle to repeat between closures and refreshments; we can no longer afford it, absolutely. In Britain 5,000 people are vaccinations a day. The other day Biden in the United States announced 100 million vaccinations in a hundred days. Germany on 23 December, after the European medicines agency (EMA) will start to vaccinate. What about us? More refreshments and lockdowns, refreshments and lockdowns? It is not acceptable; this is a very strong task that we entrust to the government, a very strong direction that Parliament wants to give to it. We are about to convert this decree-law with yet another renunciation of legislative power. There are, of course, some important and unfortunately necessary measures, as well as some suggestions that have been transformed into normal and which were much awaited, especially by the business world. Among these I would like to remind you of the postponement of tax payments, trying to focus on something. The other day I heard a rather interesting speech about the complexity of approval. It looks a bit like a Rubik cube: depending on the colors, professionals need to understand who pays, when and how. And here I want to talk about the role of professionals, especially accountants. We have a highly-rated ruling class that has seen its role as a tax porter degrade this year. And he saw this downgrade despite not having received any refreshment and without even the right to get sick. We have proposed an amendment for all professionals, which provides for the possibility of a suspension without sanctioning compliance, if it is certified that they have become ill with Covid and their study has necessarily gone into quarantine. We were told no, of course by ministerial technicians, who work in smart working and are super guaranteed. To me these answers worry a lot, because they demonstrate the inability to know the difficulties of the Country and the lack of appreciation of the mutual value and synergy that can take Italy out of this difficult moment. Another rather interesting measure is the suspension of contributions, withholding taxes and VAT (even in the case of withholding taxes, professionals are excluded, whether they are considered as well). However, this complexity of Rubik's cube has also been repeated in the measure under consideration. I want to say this as a warning for the future; I would not want this attitude to complexity to be applied to future tax reform. This name of reform to German, as punctual as it is abstruse, I would not like to take the move from a new Rubik cube, to which we would have a little different ideas. Despite all these difficulties and such a dramatic moment, with respect to which we must take a step forward, we have invested in this decree 18 billion, five of which will serve to do what many the opposition and in the country asked, namely the white quadrimestre: whoever will have substantial losses of turnover will see to turn the referrals of tax payments into suspension and exemption. Despite the announcements of many, therefore, this government has made the white quadrimestre. What is much more pressing is what we will have to do in January, the decree-laws restaurants five. The decree-law under consideration did not give the answers that we all expected even from the point of view of the ristori, therefore it will serve another profile of ristori before sharing, in order to strengthen the existing measures, fill the Ateco of the activities that have been excluded and introduce formulas for equalization. There are seasonal activities that in the fund lost April on April obviously cannot be met. There are many activities in the chain that have lost a lot of turnover, because the parent activity has been closed. Compared to our amendments, we have worked, as if we already saw the restart, on the guidelines of the recovery fund, on work, on equality, on green and also on telemedicine. I am not satisfied with one thing: the solution found for the Brenner motorway. Beyond the technical fact, I am very concerned, because, when a forceful ransom is introduced, as a state and as a model Country we are giving a message to all investors: we are saying that in Italy, if it serves, we make rules to redeem the shares of investors. This is a message that cannot be conveyed very long and outside this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. CONZACTS (IV-PSI). I'm finishing, Mr. President. The difficulties and contradictions - it is useless to deny it - are there, but Italy Viva has chosen to continue to work for those who work, for those who want to work to put Italy back on track, for those who suffer and for those who want to run. We are amazed, however, Mr President, at those who protect themselves, hiding behind the pandemic. We believe that at this moment it is important to protect the Italians from the pandemic with great courage and far-sightedness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u150	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I appeal to you, but also to the whole of Parliament, to colleagues from the League, from Forza Italia, from Movimento 5 Stars, from the Democratic Party, by the majority. I appeal to you because you have heard, like me and like the Italians who have had the patience to listen to us on satellite channels, that today probably, forgetting the last twenty seconds of the intervention of Mr Conzatti and Mr Steger, we have two more political forces in opposition. [[Applause]] After listening to my two co-regional colleagues and who I consider, if we eliminate the last ten seconds, in which they said 'but we vote for confidence', we should infer that the political majority and this government no longer exist, as they do not exist in the country. [[Applause]] There is no word and there is no consideration that Mr Steger and Mrs Conzatti have made that they do not find the centre-right fully in agreement. You have actually demolished the government's health policy. My colleague Steger demolished it. You have demolished the relationship with the world of professions. However, the two previous Members are part of your majority. I think you have to think about what you represent in the country today, that is, very little, very close to zero. It is not enough, because, before we enter into the substance of the measure before our examination, I repeat that much of the content of my speech has been done by my previous colleagues in the majority. I therefore take this opportunity to appeal to the majority. I would like to see the Minister for Economic Affairs here, who is certainly in a lot of other business. I would like to see some ministers present here during a statement of confidence, since we Members have worked for days and even nights in the Commissions to arrive at this moment. Unfortunately, I see only valiant and esteemed Undersecretaries, but not the presence of Ministers. I would therefore like to remind them - and I invite the Undersecretaries to do so - that on 1 January, that is, in a little more than fifteen days, the rules on credit, calendar provisioning, will enter into force. These rules can dramatically undermine our economic system. Do not think that they have nothing to do with the provision that we are discussing, because he is certainly not a agitated sovereignist, nor an extremist of the League or of the Brothers of Italy, as he sometimes defined them, who has said in recent days that we are facing an atomic bomb for Italian credit. That gentleman, just so we're clear, is the administrator of Mediobanca. Yesterday, however, in the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, the director of the ABI Sabatini used very, very harsh and fiery words about the current situation, talking about desertification of the Italian production system because of the rules of that Europe that you never miss the opportunity to exalt, even when it destroys - and destroyed - the financial system of the Italian credit. On January 1, friends of the Democratic Party, come into force those European norms for which - let's remind the Italians - it will take ninety days of delay in the payment of only 100 euros for individuals and 500 for companies to become unreliable subjects, to have new non-performing loans (NPL). Banks are at risk. We're 15 days away. The Committee of Inquiry into the Banking System has asked the Government to intervene in the hearing for more than three weeks. The government said they didn't have time. It is a shame and you will be called to respond to this in the face of Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, one third of which, according to Cerved - so not the Brothers of Italy, not the League, not the center-right - is at risk because of these European norms. Go look at the reports of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system and you will see that I have certainly used words that are not heavier than those used by the auditors there. I wanted to use this time to make a heartfelt appeal that comes from those businesses that are suffering and to which you are not responding. As for the decree-law, after sharing the contents and words of those who preceded me, I do not want to exacerbate or further highlight the legal monster that you created with four decrees mixed with each other, but I want to show you a consideration, even for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, what is not good in this decree is the result of the work we have all done together, majority and opposition, in the parliamentary committees. Those wretched 600 million out of almost 20 billion, that is, that miserable 3% that was given to the parliamentary classrooms, produced the only positive notes that were judged so not by me, but by the press. Read the articles of "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore) of "Italy" today in the main specialized press and you will see that the three quarters of their comments do not concern the 20 billion you have used, but mostly the majority and opposition amendments that Parliament has been able to approve in the Commissions. This should further reflect a majority - or, better, a government - that is proving increasingly farther from the Italians and that, as my colleague Senator Urso said a few hours ago, is perhaps much more interested in personal events and struggles over power in banks than in the interests of Italians, our businesses and our craftsmen. Do we want to talk about professionals? Do we want to remember, as my fellow Senator Conzatti said, that category of invisible people, how a few days ago they wrote about "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore), the professionals, to whom you have refused any grant? Remember that professionals have also been excluded from the restaurants, as well as from the contributions of the summer decree, for no reason; indeed, the commendable work of my fellow accountants, but of all Italian professionals, should have been rewarded at such a difficult time, instead you have not even considered them like the other workers. To these professionals, however, you did not even want to recognize what it does not cost, because these hours are not my complaints as the first signatory, together with the consultation of parliamentarians accountants, of the bill on illness and accident of professionals, but the agencies of all professional categories, I emphasize it. I would like to mention one that brings them all together, that of Marina Calderone and my colleague Zambrano, who represent the Unitary Committee of the Professions (CUP), who have made it clear that it is a shame that we do not proceed quickly, after the Presidency has given the Senate the opportunity to work on this matter. You are really climbing on mirrors to give nothing to professionals, indeed, to take away also that right to health and injury to which they would have full title. Given that time seems to be running out, I would like to ask you for a minute more so that we can conclude on two passages. I fully agree with the position on the Brenner motorway, one of the best motorway concessions in Europe, which you are trying to expropriate, with a legal concept worthy of a communist past that should have nothing to do with liberal culture. You are expropriating a private property, without it having the slightest function of social utility, which would be the only element that could justify it. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that this measure does not contain any measures for recovery. In the decree restori and in all the decrees Covid, from spring to winter, there is nothing for recovery, everything is based on the logic of assistantism, of the income of citizenship and emergency, always on the liabilities. You have not foreseen anything for the growth of this country. There is one measure that we have tried in every way to get accepted: for companies that want to move forward and that will agree to pull up the shutter again, the artisans, the shops and the restaurants, we have asked for a premium regime in the tax field to tell them that they have suffered, but that tomorrow, if they hold on, we will give them something more. It was one of the basic proposals that we and Giorgia Meloni presented, but you didn't even consider it. I repeat that it was a measure, we have ten of this kind and you have always ignored them. For this reason and for many others that time does not allow me to say, Mr President, dear colleagues, Brothers of Italy not only does not give you confidence, but asks you to have the dignity to resign, to go before the voters and to have them tell them what they want for the future of this country. [[Applause. Senator Airola's protests. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u151	On the side of the House to my right, those who had to speak have already spoken; now we let the next senator speak, otherwise I have to conclude that we intend to go far beyond this night. [[Comments.]] I must also ask you not to try to assemble in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u154	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in thanking you for allowing me to speak, I assure the previous speaker that we will vote in favour of the measure before us. It was a challenging job because of its extraordinary nature, four decrees linked to the emergency. I remember that because it is difficult to discuss whether, when we speak on the refreshments, we are asking to discuss the strategy. If I went to read the countless amendments meritoriously tabled by the opposition, I could use the wrong term "assistantism." There are thousands of opposition amendments that go in the right direction. [[Applause]] However, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we have made a worthwhile effort together. This was perhaps not emphasized by the opposition's colleagues, except in some speeches. We have made a joint effort which I consider to be positive and I want to interpret it as the first step in a reasoning which must also be made on the next steps. When you talk about crumbs, I would like to remind you that in the measure we are examining there are measures that you have rightly called for loudly, such as the postponement of all tax deadlines, which is worth several billions. Attention, I would not like you to question even the battles you have waged in recent months and have found a positive response from the government. We have worked together on some important issues (system burdens, regions, local public transport) at your initiative and we have done so firmly together. Why not recognize him, colleagues? Then one can underestimate this choice; one can remain in the classical political narrative, the one for which, as Bartali would have said: It's all wrong, it's all to be redone. However, colleagues, this is not the case and you know it well. We have tried to respond to important issues, which concern the business system and social problems, and you have also shared this, for a number of proposals that the majority has made. I am also thinking of the issue of health residences, housing, the occupation fee for public spaces and areas (COSAP) or the occupation fee for public spaces and areas (TOSAP), as well as that for newsstands. We've done important things. Is that why I think it's okay? No, we see the problems, too. I am thinking, first of all, of the economic and productive nature of small and medium-sized enterprises, production and services. We're clear too. Let's look inside this problem. You cannot pretend not to know that, by comparing us in the Commissions, on the basis of a reasoning that the Government has made, we have decided an important thing, that is, that, by collecting all the data, with the fifth decree-restoration laws we will overcome what I also judge an anachronistic criterion, that is, that of the codes Ateco, and we will finally base ourselves on the turnover and the consequent reduction of taxes. This is a political choice that the Government has already made and presented, on which I expect, on the occasion of the examination of the fifth decree-restoration laws, a great appreciation of the opposition, because this is the strategy that you have evoked several times. [[Applause]] To tackle the ten strategic problems we need reforms, which are something very complex in this country. I would like to say one thing, first of all to us in the majority: we are all aware that the recovery fund is a historic opportunity, perhaps unique; in order to correspond we must have the courage to change the country. To me, frankly, of the discussion on the direction booth, managerial staff and technicians is interested to a certain extent; I am interested in what and what projects we do to build a new model of development, a more just country and a social system able to face certain situations. I don't have enough titles. I want to see the plans. When we talk about green, I want to figure out which hydrogen and what ecological transformation we do. [[Applause]] That is what we may be splitting up on, but this debate is a good one, because we do not all feel the same way, otherwise we would not be sitting in different positions. Welcome to this debate. Do you know what my fear is? I tell you with sincerity without committing anyone, just my thoughts: I wonder if we are up to it, if the majority are up to building this level of confrontation in Parliament, if the opposition is up to it and if the social forces are up to it, because we have to change a lot if we want to overcome this challenge. Of course, it is trivial to say that 9 billion for health care is an absolutely inadequate choice. But I want to understand what we do about health, what strategy we assume, what renewal of the system of the relationship between territorial health and hospital. [[Applause]] I want to understand and I am no longer content, depending on the moments, to say that the Regions must count more and less. What do we have of country? Who does what? What responsibility do we take? These are the real arguments. Colleagues, do you really want the reshuffle or the reshuffle? But where do we think we can go? Get out of here... [[Comments.]] Calm down. Outside, Italian citizens are asking us to perform our role. Our function, we like it or we don't like it, is to have the courage, the strength and the determination to change this country, so that in a few years' time the classical debate, for example, on tax collection is no longer done, because we will have built more justice, more equity, more freedom. [[Applause]] This is the effort we must make. Everything else risks being, out of respect that I always owe to everything, a set of absolutely self-referential words, words all within us, words and chatter. The country, if we want to resume and rebuild, needs a breakthrough, first of all cultural. And we, colleagues in the majority, like it or not, are obliged to do so, because there is no alternative in this Parliament that it is not the fact that we can achieve this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u157	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of the question of the Democratic Party's confidence and our appreciation of the measures contained in the decree-laws and which this House has helped to strengthen. Many of you have spoken about the measures on the subject and I would like to remind you of only one, a small measure that concerns the exemption from payment TOSAP and COSAP until March 2021; a small measure that gives a signal in this difficult phase to the bars and restaurants, which give more liveliness and vitality to our cities, today absorbed by the pandemic. In my speech I would like to express two appreciations and one wish: the first appreciation concerns the work done by the majority and oppositions. I say this without hypocrisy: some exacerbated tones this evening do not attenuate the value of the work done together and it is good to have done it because working together improved the original system. I hope that this method can continue also in the future because this is what the country asks us to do, to work together regardless of the roles we have today and that I think we will also have in the future. The second appreciation concerns the relationship with the Government. There are two Undersecretaries who have followed us step by step and also the Minister for relations with Parliament. It has been a useful, constructive, valuable and loyal collaboration, but I would like to add one thing: this legislative procedure should be rethought because, if we analyse it well, between opinions, billings, subsequent opinions and more, the scope of our role as democratically elected legislators by citizens is very limited. This should be rethought. I say this - I think - by interpreting the sentiment of the whole House. The hope is to move from the philosophy of the restorative to the philosophy of supporting production chains, families, professionals, the economic sectors most vexed by the pandemic because it is not true that everyone has been hit in the same way. It is necessary to proceed with selectivity. When a house burns, what do you do? You have to put out the fire and we're still in the fire and we have to put it out with welfare measures, even with the refreshments, with what it relieves, but it doesn't create conditions of recovery and resilience. Now the moment of transition must come, from the emergency (the house that burns) to the country that needs to be rebuilt and even a little' rethought. We have the instruments, such as the new ristori decree, which will have an even greater budget. We have another important instrument thanks to Europe. Colleagues, let us never forget that if we talk today about Next generation EU or recovery plan, it is because there is a European Union that provides 209 billion between grants and loans for Italy. This great opportunity must not be wasted, it must not be wasted but must be used to give breath and breath to the great potential of this country. This is a transitional phase to which we must go knowing that there is a reality perhaps even more serious than what we feel. I do not underestimate the alarm that yesterday the G30 working group launched on the dimension of suffering in the world, soothed by the right care measures that we and the others have carried out. We believe that the Government will be able to guide this transition, but it is from the hard analysis of reality that rebirth can and must begin. It's at night that it's nice to believe in light" wrote Edmond Rostand, and we believe in it and work to get the sun back to shine on our beloved country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u160	CAUSIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, perhaps not all colleagues in the majority remember that the beginning of Article 41 of the Italian Constitution - which we have under the bench and we should all be aware of - states that economic activity is free. Therefore, the approval of a refreshment measure does not appear, as I have heard from some of my colleagues in the majority, as a kind concession to the free enterprise. A provision of refreshment is a necessary and necessary act when the State - through the Government, first, and then Parliament - decides to limit and close the free economic initiative enshrined in the Italian Constitution, albeit temporarily and modulated. It is not the first time, in modern times, that the West is facing events like what we are experiencing. There were great pandemic events: I think of the pestilences of 1340 and 1630, the First World War (from 1914 to 1918), the epidemic of Spanish influence in 1919, the great Asian influence of 1957. Yet, this is the first time that the West has chosen and decided to limit personal freedoms, the mobility of people, the dimension of sociality - so precious, for example, for our children and for our elderly - and to limit, above all, economic freedoms, which are the element of certainty and security through which each one builds his own existence. This decision has been taken because today we are certainly living in an interdependent world, where freedoms are not only obvious, but are the foundation of civil and democratic life, and European governments, in particular - he is right, my colleague - have chosen to give priority to the way of putting life and health before the economy and sociality. However, each Government - including the Italian Government - has the task of thinking not only about the health risk, but also about the economic prospects that derive from it, because the safeguarding of the economic fabric, of businesses and of people's work are objectives and values that are indispensable for us. [[Applause.]] So far I have never used the word "emergency" - and I do not even use it in current terms, when I speak with the people I know - because in the dictionary of the Italian language "emergency" means a sudden, unexpected and circumscribed event over time. Now, I challenge everyone in this House to define the Covid, after a year in which we have no scientific evidence. [[Applause]] nor health elements, we do not know the duration time nor do we have certainty of vaccines, I repeat, I challenge anyone to call the Covid an emergency. The Covid is an event with which we must confront ourselves, which confronts us with the need to give answers to a health emergency, to an economic theme and is a harmful event destined, unfortunately, to last over time. An event that you can't face with hiccup decrees, as you did [[Applause]] , but it requires, as Errani rightly said - but I am surprised that he says it, that he should not ask questions but give answers, since it is a majority - a commitment that should imply by the majority the ability to set up a perspective, a plan, an ability to have a vision that gives answers to the professional, the trader, the craftsman, the industrialist. These people need to trust the state in order to have confidence in the future, and this confidence is not there right now. I try to translate it into even simpler terms. Do you really think that a figure ranging from 40% to 60% of the turnover in April 2019, together with the tax translation, which will then have to be paid in 2021 (along with the 2020 taxes transferred to 2021, but also those of 2021), is enough to save thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that have suffered a decrease in turnover ranging from 50% to 70%? [[Applause]] But where do you live? If many activities are still open today, it is not thanks to the kindness of your refreshments, but it is thanks to the ability and willingness of savers to put hand to their pocket and put their money in the enterprise, to save the enterprise itself and to save the job. [[Applause]] But this thing, of course, can't last forever, because, as they say on my side, even the scheas at some point end and you have to have ideas, you have to have a project, you have to have the ability, especially on your part, that you have the responsibility to govern, to explain what development policies you have in mind for this country. Although, as a center-right, we have managed to achieve some results, also thanks to the willingness we have given you on the deviation of the budget, we denounce this lack of vision of the majority, of you who, at this moment, have the responsibility of the Government. I also remember those who, today, took the floor in the government doing schizophrenic interventions (and I ask for the term). It is clearly incomprehensible how some political forces have wanted and supported this Government for a year and a half and now, at the most delicate and critical moment, these contradictions emerge. I think it is much more serious to do it on a continuous basis or to do so and then to draw the consequences from it. [[Applause]] In fact, our companies are not interested in the theatres you are doing on the reshuffle and discussions about the direction booth. Our companies want to know what the strategic measures will be that will allow us to rely on an economic social fabric that will guarantee a chance of recovery. From this point of view, the recovery fund is certainly a matter of the majority on which we have made ourselves available. However, this availability must also be followed by a capacity to build political tables capable of establishing guidelines. Today the Confesercenti gave a disturbing figure. In a statement, the Confesercenti mentioned the risk that some 350,000 small and medium-sized enterprises (commercial activities, professional activities, craft activities) could see closure in the coming months. I would like to make it clear to my colleagues in the majority that, in my opinion, there is a dramatic fallout, not only in terms of employment, but also in tax terms, because if there is no one who produces taxation, the state does not stand up. [[Applause]] If no one pays taxes in the country, how do we keep the public car going? How do we pay doctors' salaries? How do we pay the salaries of public security workers? How do we pay public administrations, municipalities and pensions (because there can also be a relapse in pension terms)? If you are resigned, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to the fact that it is normal to give up personal freedoms, to socialism and that it is normal to restrict the freedom of enterprise, we are not resigned to this. We think that it is not normal and that, when it is done, we must assume the responsibility to immediately put in place some answers, in order to give a future to the country and, above all, to our young people. I shall conclude, Mr President. I think the only solution is to put in place a major investment project and to relaunch the economy. A vision of the future of this country that you, in all evidence, have demonstrated, in these weeks and months, that you do not have; a vision that you lack and that will not appear of enchantment following summits, meetings or attempts to reshuffle. For these reasons, I am voting against the confidence of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u163	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega Group will vote against this measure, not only because yet another confidence has been given, but we would have voted against it in any case and I will explain why. Senator Misses is right: there is no need to shout to try to explain his reasons. I start from the discourse for which there is no political vision and planning in the measure under consideration. After all, colleagues in the majority, you have confirmed this yourself, with your speeches in explanation of vote, because there has not been one who has not made a criticism, even a substantial one, to the Government. [[Applause]] After the second lockdown you issued the first ristori decree, after ten days came the second, then you noticed that the Regions were changing color and you had to issue the third, then you realized that many activities would not be able to pay taxes and you did the fourth, now you realized that the resources are not enough and you have foreseen a fifth, to testify that you cannot think of going ahead in any way, as the Government does, to really solve the problems of the many activities and the many citizens who have suffered for this pandemic. So, colleagues, you are not able to have a minimum of programming and vision. [[Applause]] That is the first point. Secondly, we had asked to use the term and to provide compensation and no relief, because the legal term compensation means that the beneficiary gets neither more nor less than what he has lost, while with the term ristori, artifice of this Government, the person who has suffered the damage must be satisfied with what the State can basically give and therefore of the alms [[Applause]] Because that's what we're talking about. Previously, a colleague mentioned the 73,000 closed companies, of which 17,000 will probably never reopen again: we are therefore talking about dramatic damage. Thirdly, we have said that the resources are not enough and that many categories have been excluded, we have not managed to go beyond the issue of the Ateco codes, we have not looked at the logic of turnover and even have been excluded many supply chains, first of all that of agriculture, of which you have absolutely forgotten, and then that of tourism, another sector that would need more support, given what happened. As some colleagues in the majority have also mentioned, in Germany they have given 75% of what companies have lost in the month or months in which they have been closed down, while we, at best, have 20% to 40%. To give concrete examples, an average of €2,000 was given to a bar or a small trader, while the larger ones were given €5,000. We're talking about begging and not the support we needed, in support of these categories. [[Applause]] Fourthly, it was taken as reference only in April. It is wrong to refer to only one month, because the damage of the pandemic caused problems in all the months of the year and not only in April. The same mayor of Milan, Sala, said that, even once it reopens, you do not immediately return to 100% of the turnover. A much wider period should therefore be considered, as has been proposed in several of our amendments, but you did not want to listen to them either. Fifth, it is true that the famous DPCMs have left some activities open, in the so-called yellow areas, but since the movements were still limited, they were open formally, but in substance they did not work. We also saw here, in Rome, many open shops where no one entered. I think of the many streetwalkers who could organize fairs in the municipalities; but the municipalities did not take the responsibility of having them organize fairs, even though it could be done. Eventually, these people, even though they could work, did not work; and what did you predict about them? Zero, that's the point. [[Applause]] Sixth question: you have shown yourself to be a little amateur and also a little arrogant. As regards the extension of the payments relating to the tax obligations provided for, the decree-law was published in the Official Journal after 23 on the same day when the deadlines for submitting the tax returns expired. The citizen should have imagined it sooner or called his accountant before midnight to tell him to file the application and move in this direction; it is really scandalous this operation that has been done, really scandalous. [[Applause]] Some say you did it on purpose, so many probably didn't have time to organize themselves in this direction. In addition (seventh plea) the Ristori-c decree refers to 1 March 2021 the deadline for the payment of the installments on the scrap-b which expires in 2020. Those benefiting from this suspension will have to pay all 1 March and will also have to pay the first instalment of 2021. But can you really think that those who were in trouble before the pandemic after the pandemic can pay everything in one installment, with the new year, and have the resources to do so? [[Applause]] You are really far from reality and far from common sense; that is what the Government has shown. Eighth point: among the amendments that you have adopted in the majority, the most scandalous thing is that, in the face of an issue as important as that of the rest of the world, we have seen amendments, which fortunately the President of the Senate declared inadmissible, because they were genuine marchettes: one million to the association of such...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u164	President Romeo, you too have the invitation to moderate language.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u165	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, Mr. President. I wanted to make the idea right. I know you'll forgive me. We are talking about interventions that are normally made in a budget law, not in a measure that must help companies that are in serious difficulty. How can we table amendments which go in this direction? [[Applause]] No reason (I am going to close): it is not enough to adopt three of the centre-right's amendments to change our mind. Certainly, the establishment of a fund with an initial budget of 180 million euros for the reduction of the system charges on electricity bills, carried out by my colleague Arrigoni, is certainly a step forward, such as the major transfers to the regions and the greater resources for local public transport and to make the conventions with taxis, NCCs and anything else. But, gentlemen, let us be clear: this is a very first step. This must be acknowledged, however, since we think that these three amendments could change our minds, it really takes a lot of time. So much for the collaboration! [[Applause]] The tenth and last reason is based on the quality of writing standards. Unfortunately, with all the decree-laws (this is another example), we are witnessing a series of rules that really are almost indecipherable. Already it is difficult to understand when you write a decree-law; imagine having to weave four of them. Who knows what comes out: deadlines, fulfillments, I can do that, I can do that. This is indeed a regulatory confusion that does not help the beneficiaries, who risk not taking the support then because of a mechanism that is too complicated. This reminds me of the issue of the 110 percent superbonus; do you remember how much you propagandad it? Very useful in its initial purposes, but unfortunately everyone talks about it, but nobody knows how to do it. So much so that Minister Patuanelli replied to a question that there are very few speeches from May to today. [[Applause]] I do not say the number, because I have great respect for Minister Patuanelli; I do not say the number for this reason. The idea was to facilitate construction, but in fact you ended up blocking it: exactly the opposite. These misspelled rules go in this direction. What's the moral? It is that unfortunately - I say this with respect to many colleagues who are in the majority -, at the most difficult time for Italy since the post-war period, unfortunately we are faced with the most embarrassing government in the history of Italy. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u168	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, it is an honour for me to speak today, at such a difficult and delicate time for the country, when we carry out a work: we have succeeded in approving four decree-laws in one with this climate, so I would say that we have really managed to do something great. [[Applause]] I am truly proud of this and I thank all the majority, all the opposition and especially all the people who helped us in the offices, because it is also thanks to them. Why four decrees in one? Many from outside wonder why four decrees in such a short time. It is logical why: we are experiencing an emergency, compared to what my colleague Mr Causin said before; it is an emergency that has evolved over time touching different regions in a different way. So we had to intervene in a different way: it seems very, very simple to me. Now we have managed to put these rules into order and we all approve them together - something really well done. Many accuse us of the fact that the rules are fragmented. But are we aware of how many categories of citizens and businesses we need to account for and give back-up and aid? That is why the rules are fragmented: there are really many categories to which we must refer. I mean, we spent 100 billion this year, and we're probably gonna need a lot of them next year, because we're all seeing the numbers. The numbers are serious and the situation is still serious: if in March we had as peak 6,000 cases a day, now we continue to have 12,000, and there are not few. We must realise this: the situation is still difficult. But let's look forward. We managed to have a good step. We managed to cooperate with the opposition, and it was not easy. But I must say that the opposition has also managed to bring home - I would say to bring to the homes of the Italians - three very important things. So I would say thank you for the things you have suggested to us. [[Applause]] We would probably have done them too, but I saw that you sponsor little of the things you did, as if you were ashamed that the majority gave you the opportunity to do something concrete for the Italian citizens. [[Applause]] Mr President, we are very proud of the work we have done, but we have seen that on the other side we have worked, yes, but there has always been someone who wanted to do the rip-off, someone who wanted to get rid of it. [[Applause]] , someone who always instrumentally put a bit of a stick between the wheels. But it's okay, it's okay, because we have a goal: to do good to the people who need it the most. So if you want to go on with the insults, we'll go on anyway. If you go on with the slaps instead of the hugs, we're okay with the same thing, because we only have that goal and we'll keep turning the other cheek, because we want to do good to the citizens who need it. And we will continue to do good. [[Applause]] Mr President, the time is difficult. We are approaching Christmas, a time when we all want to be close to our families, to families that are far away, to family members who are far away. We have suffered from distance and loneliness; many families have endured pain, so it is a time when we want to be closer. Unfortunately, the conditions do not allow us to do so. I know that the measures for Christmas are now under discussion, and I have this prayer to pray: first of all to all of us and to all Italian citizens, to do everything possible to comply with these rules. But above all, if there was the idea of questioning these ideas, I would ask you to do so very carefully, because the risk really is too high. [[Applause]] We must not take the risk of other really unpleasant things. Let's move on. I am happy for what the opposition has done and I am happy for what the majority has done, because we have done really important things and I am proud of this. We started from the things that were missing, for example for research. We have to do a lot in Italy for research, we know. Our young researchers go abroad because they find more resources and they are Italian researchers who win more competitions to realize interesting projects. Unfortunately, we don't have the tools in Italy. We have to do everything we can to hold them back, so we have renewed the PhD and PhD scholarships for at least three months. It is a minimum, but at least we lay the foundations for a reform that must serve our researchers. We remain on education: we have allocated five million, few resources, we know that, but they will be used to reduce the training gaps of children and pupils who, unfortunately, in recent months, have suffered a great deal because they have had to follow the teaching from home. Let's go ahead and think about everyday problems. Let's think about those families who have to pay too much rent. We know very well that unfortunately the income for many people has fallen. For the problem of the house we have invented a prize for property owners who will decide to lower the rent to their tenants. It is a unique, experimental measure that we have tried, we have written it and we have succeeded in achieving it. [[Applause]] The owners can receive up to 50 percent of the discount of the rent that they will make to their tenants. Let's try it, maybe it won't be the optimal solution, but let's see how it goes and at the most we will also put other resources in addition to the 50 million already allocated. Colleagues, I must thank you very much because for six months we have all worked together on a measure that has now taken concreteness, that is, over-indebtedness. I have repeated this several times in this House. Unfortunately, we never did, but now we've made it. We have improved the rules on over-indebtedness to help the people most in need and who are unable to pay their debts. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u169	Excuse me, Mr Pesco, from my point of view I see too many people grouped together. The moment of the vote is approaching, so I ask you to have some more patience.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u170	Please, President Pesco. PESCO (M5S). By improving the rules on over-indebtedness, households will all be able to access the procedure together, spending less. It will also be easier for small entrepreneurs to access the procedures. But above all we have made possible the famous debit thanks to which those who have nothing will not give anything, and it is the most important thing because it is a concept that we should learn also at international level, since unfortunately many countries are really in trouble. [[Applause]] That is all I say, Mr President, except that much creativity is needed. In the things we do, ladies and gentlemen, we have to put creativity into it, otherwise the laws remain gray and dark, while we should do something more to make them actually useful to our citizens. So let's get creative. Among other things, we are in a time full of new resources and new opportunities. We need new ideas. I think we're on the right track. Let us continue on this path, with strength and determination but also listening and sharing. [[Applause.]] 23.53 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u172	Colleagues, I ask you for a minute's patience because there is an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group by Senator Paragon. [[Brusio. Comments of Senator Calderoli]] Senator Calderoli, tell me what's going on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u173	President Romeo is asking you to speak on the order of business preceding Senator Paragon's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u174	No, you can't go ahead, because explanations of vote must finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u175	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You can refuse it, but you have to accept it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It can't be interrupted. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Who said that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, I'll finish and then I'll give you the floor. I pray Senator Paragon.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u176	More than I decree refreshments you should have called it a decree "hope in God," because by now the story of the refreshments is becoming a lottery. [[Brusio.]] Afterwards we cannot preach to the citizens when we are the first to stand there in the hut. [[Applause]] More than I decree refreshments you should have called it a decree "hope in God" because by now the story of the refreshments is becoming a lottery: if luck assists you, then take something. When we were kids at the oratory bar, we would take the Boers, not the Boeri of the petalosis vaccines, no: we would take the Boers of the bar in the hope of winning other Boers or other prizes. Even with you we reject the decree and hope for luck: who knows if I take something? Who meanwhile picks is the father-in-law of Giuseppe Conte with the norm saves smart sojourn tax [[Applause]] , also known as the rule saves father-in-law, of which the Premier's father-in-law immediately made use with retroactive effect. For one who takes, many do not take, because they do not have an account in the family, because they are children of no one or because they are entangled in the rifle of the Ateco codes. Mrs. Rosy, a refresher, writes to me: I find myself without refreshments, with a non-existent tourist season, with fixed costs never suspended. Here you continue to make fun of all of us by playing with the Ateco codes, not taking into account that behind the number of belonging there are families and exasperated employees. This morning the restaurateurs went down to Rome, protested in front of Montecitorio. It was written on the flyer they distributed, a leaflet full of proposals to revive the hospitality sector, one of the sectors that you are slowly destroying. The sectors of travel agencies, agriculture, weddings and gyms are literally folded. Gentlemen of the Government, do you understand or not that economic operators have their breath on the banks' necks and that a report to the central risk means dying permanently? Did you realize that suppliers have to be paid, that the goods are in storage? To those who already pay the subscriptions of management software for electronic invoices you have uploaded other management costs for the cowardice of cashback or the trap of lottery receipts. You have divided Italy into red, orange and yellow areas; then, when the yellow color starts, you get angry with citizens and traders because you have not imposed the car lockdown and after having pushed for the super cashback. The government, which therefore has not prepared the pandemic plan, exposing citizens and health workers also to the danger of death, allows itself to make morale. I am voting no to this government, which is a friend of in-laws, banks and multinationals, which is allowed to do everything, even to pay some taxes. Italexit wants to overcome the false myth of the deficit. A sovereign currency does not fail, and above all it does not allow hundreds and hundreds of people to queue for a hot meal outside the aid centers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u179	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, of course, on the subject of the vote. We know that there are certain institutional commitments when it comes to voting on the maxi amendment, so that some senators can have access to and vote first compared to others. However, given the timetable and doubting, as there is curfew, also that there are some institutional commitments at midnight, I hope that this evening's sitting will normally follow the course of the extraction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u182	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business or rather on the mess of business. As decided by the Presidency Council, we should each respond from our own place. We have also established a number of presences in the Chamber and in the stands above. If one sees the House at the moment, he immediately realizes that there is twice as much attendance as the forecasts made by our quaestors, not least the standing presences between the benches and in the Chamber. I therefore ask you to ensure that the numbers are respected because, when each of us is called upon to vote, it will not be at a safe distance from what the forecasts are. It's no use doing the air change, if we spit on each other. Therefore, all those who are extra must leave the Chamber and vote from other places. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u183	Colleagues, Senator Calderoli's call seems appropriate to me. I see an assembly in the hemicycle. I ask everyone to take their place according to the rules established by the quaestors senators, in the sense of occupying the seats for what will be the call even in the tribune. As we are constantly talking about emergency, security measures, masks and restrictions, each of us shrinks. We don't always have to call the rules and respect them. Please, I see an assembly. Senators, I ask you, please, to invite the people to take the seats assigned to them. Otherwise I'll wait, we'll stay here and spend the night together. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u184	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 137 of 28 October 2020, as deleted following the screening of eligibility and corrected according to the indications of the Budget Commission, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will be able to vote exclusively from his own post, declaring his own vote. I remember, once again, that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle, such as those there are at this time. Please step away. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Caliendo is drawn by lot.) Since today there are no needs related to air travel or to reach the workplace, but there is an issue that uniforms everyone's needs, I will not give rise to any priority. I therefore invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Caliendo. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, appealed. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bress, Buccarella Country, Carbone, Cario, Croati, Crocca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Floridia Gallicchio, Donno, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Fantetti, Faraone, Fedeli, Fenu, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floridia Gallicchio, Donno, Durnwalder Luvinezi, Evangelista Fantetti Senators say no: Aimi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Battistoni, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calderoli, Caliendo, Caliguri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Casolati, Causin, Centinario, Ciriani, Corti Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Bonis, De Falco, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis, Doria Fazzolari, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fregolent, Fusco Gallone, Garnero Santanché, Gasparri, Giammanco, Giro, Grassi Iannoni, Iwobi La Pietra, La Russa, Lucidi, Lunesu Maffoni, Mallen, Mallegni, Mangialavori, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Martellicco, Martini, Martini, Martini, Martini, Marti, Marti, Marti, Marti, Marti, Marti, Marti-Merini, Marti-Farini, Moagoni PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 137 of 28 October 2020 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 277 Senators voting 276 Majority 139 Favorables 154 Contrari 122 Absent 0]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 137 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u185	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-282.ana.u186	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 16 December, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 00:48 a.m. on 16 December.
