ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:36 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u3	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the current international scenario, with particular reference to the situation in Iran, Iraq and Libya. I call Mr Di Maio, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u4	Mr President, kind senators and senators, the enlarged Mediterranean is experiencing a particularly turbulent phase. Today the most dramatic crises on which international attention is focused are mainly in Libya, Iran and Iraq, but we are still concerned about the conflicts in Syria and Yemen. While in various countries, beginning with Lebanon, street demonstrations testify to the need to give concrete answers to the legitimate political, economic and social aspirations of large sections of the population. The widespread instability, especially in this region, affects the Italian national interests and, above all, the interest in our security for scenarios that, at times, are located a few hundred kilometers from us. We also have an interest in combating terrorism, managing migration flows and protecting our soldiers engaged in bilateral and international training and stabilisation missions. To them, women and men in uniform, let us renew our deep gratitude. We are being pressured by security - as I said - but also by economic interests linked to energy supplies and the penetration of our businesses. More generally, it is at stake the same geopolitical role as Italy in the sea that we want to continue to consider nostrum. What is happening above all in the Mediterranean has a direct impact on the daily lives of our citizens. The more united and compact Italy will be in the face of these challenges, the more it will be able to put in place an effective capacity for political initiative. Our country will always strongly reaffirm that the only response to this instability is and must remain political. There are no military shortcuts in the Mediterranean; the history of recent years has shown that conflicts bring only other conflicts, triggering destructive spirals. Of course, the military option can change reality in the immediate future on the ground, but it does not produce sustainable solutions capable of recreating the prerequisites for a shared perspective of peace and prosperity. It is a lesson that we have learned in Iraq, as in Libya, and that we must keep in mind also these weeks. It is in this spirit that I feel, as always, not only necessary, but also useful to share information and considerations here in Parliament, focusing on the two most acute crises on which I have been called upon to report: Libya and Iran and Iraq. Let's start with Libya. It is crucial hours and days and it is good that this debate will take place just a few days from the Berlin Conference, convened on Sunday at 2 p.m. A sovereign, united and peaceful Libya remains the top priority for Italy, for the Italian Government, for our national security and for the stability of the entire Euro-Mediterranean region. The further escalation of this crisis could pose other risks in terms of terrorist threats and illegal immigration, which we are averting with every effort. The ceasefire, albeit still fragile, is a good news because it is an indispensable condition for political dialogue. In this respect, we welcomed the Russian initiative to reach a formal agreement between al-Sarraj and Haftar and took note of the signing of the agreement by the representatives of the Government of Tripoli. We hope that it can soon be signed by all the other parties and, in the meantime, that a substantial truce can stand on the ground. The fact that Haftar has not yet signed the document shows how complex the Libyan equation is and how important it is for the entire international community, starting with the participants in the Berlin Conference, to be able to work on the same agenda. In achieving this first, even if fragile, result Italy has done its part: we have indicated and pursued the objective of a truce, cultivating the dialogue to the utmost with all the parties, even when few thought it realistic. The road is, however, still very long and difficult; it requires a constant and choral commitment. In this regard, the diplomatic effort of the last few hours by Turkey and Russia, which does not yet see the signing of the ceasefire by the two main actors of this conflict, shows that no country alone can think of solving such a complex crisis. The entire international community is called to work chorally to reach a conclusion. In a constantly changing scenario, we welcomed the announcement by Germany of the date of the Berlin Conference: 19 January, as I said earlier. It is good news, it represents an important step forward and, if it has been possible to identify the date of Sunday, it is also thanks to the incessant work of Italy with all the actors of this complex crisis. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] This commitment is testified by the thanks that Germany addressed to Italy at the last Extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union last Friday, recognizing the work of our country as decisive. Let me take a step back in this respect from the issue of the ceasefire, to briefly remind you of the dramatic picture of the Libyan crisis. A truce is particularly valuable, considering the escalation of clashes on the ground and the intensification of the air campaign that have affected the entire area of the front around Tripoli in recent weeks, with continuous attacks that have not spared targets in the capital, also affecting the civilian population and the infrastructure network, starting from Tripoli-Mitiga airport, only recently reopened. The recent offensive of the forces of Haftar to Sirte is also particularly important: on the one hand, it could strengthen its grip on the oil crescent and, on the other, it risks opening a new front to the east of the city of Misrata. In this dramatic scenario I remember in particular the heinous attack on the night of January 4 against the Military Academy of Tripoli, which caused more than 30 victims and dozens of wounded, including among civilians, and which Italy immediately condemned. These actions have aggravated a serious humanitarian crisis and fueled a dangerous escalation of the conflict, with the risk of triggering an out-of-control confrontation. The contrast is aggravated by the interference of external international and regional actors, in support of both sides. From internal conflict, the Libyan crisis has turned into a proxy war. In this context, there are the two agreements between Libya and Turkey on maritime demarcation and security and the decision of the Turkish Parliament to authorise the sending of its military to Tripoli: initiatives we have denounced for the negative effects they have had on an already highly polarised scenario. At the same time, we have stigmatized all forms of external interference in the country. Compared to this scenario, Italy's action has developed in recent weeks in line with five guidelines. The first: unworkability of the military solution and the search for a ceasefire. As I have already pointed out, Italy does not intend to intervene militarily in the conflict and continues to adhere strictly to the arms embargo. Every tightening up on the ground favours only the interests of external actors, whose agendas differ from our own and do not care about our own security needs, as well as the proliferation of terrorist groups. It is essential to try to keep the ceasefire and bring the Libyan crisis back on a political footing. The second is to restart the political process under the auspices of the UN. Dialogue must start again, and this is the main objective for which we strongly support the Berlin process, which is the only way forward for a political solution to the crisis in Libya. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] It is very positive that Chancellor Merkel confirmed the date of January 19. We expect from this Conference results and not only photo opportunity. After the Conference we will then have to work on operational follow-up, starting with the way in which the ceasefire is implemented. The third is the end of any external interference. The presence of foreign mercenaries alongside the forces of General Haftar is a further factor of destabilisation, as well as the most recent arrival of forces attributable to Turkey, in support of the Government of national agreement. In order to stop this interference on both fronts, all actors will be gathered around the table in Berlin on Sunday to commit them to full respect of the United Nations arms embargo. The fourth is Libya's unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Our goal is to have a stable government, representative of the whole country and able to exercise the legal monopoly of force, protect borders, respond to the most immediate needs of the population, manage migrants and asylum seekers effectively and respecting human rights. A stable and united Libya is a prerequisite for us to counter the terrorist threat, prevent illegal migration flows and protect our energy interests. Fifth: Inclusiveness. Italy supports the Government of National Agreement led by President al-Sarraj as a legitimate institution of Libya, recognized by the United Nations. However, at the same time, by virtue of the traditional inclusive approach, in the belief that only a constructive dialogue between all parties can lead to a shared solution, we maintain intense intercourse with representatives of other important realities of Tripolitania, Cyrenaica and Fezzan. In particular, we are talking with General Haftar so that he can respect the truce and accept the political process. It is on the basis of these guidelines that the work of the Government has been articulated in recent weeks. Since our mission to Libya on 17 December last, our action has focused on three immediate objectives: achieving a ceasefire; political support for the preparation of the Berlin Conference; fostering a more active and visible role of the European Union in order to encourage the convening and success of the Berlin Conference and, above all, to help ensure its follow-up. In order to strengthen the role of the European Union, we promoted a joint initiative with the Ministers of France, Germany and the United Kingdom and with the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr Borrell, on 7 January. Due to the deteriorating security situation in the country, we decided to meet again in Brussels, thus paving the way for the visit that President al-Sarraj made to Brussels the following day to meet with High Representative Borrel, President of the European Council Michel and President of the European Parliament Sassoli. This is a positive development. For too long, Europe has moved uncoordinatedly on Libya, allowing third-party actors to occupy the free spaces. This is a dynamic that must be fought decisively. Europeans are the ones who have the most to lose from an unstable Libya and the most to gain from a safe and prosperous country. It is up to us Europeans to avoid Libya being held hostage by a geopolitical competition between actors even far away and, therefore, less exposed to the consequences of instability. At last Friday's Extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council, Italy also promoted a reflection on the most effective ways and instruments to contribute concretely to the achievement of the objectives of the Berlin Conference: in particular, monitoring of the ceasefire; implementation of the arms embargo and security sector reform, including through the establishment of professional armed forces, and support for the necessary economic reforms. The European Union, also on an Italian initiative, has sent a reflection for a European ceasefire monitoring mission, of course at the express request of the Libyans and in a framework of international legality sanctioned by the United Nations. It would be an important step to stop external interference, prevent the massacre of civilians and give the European Union a unified profile and a leading role in the Libyan crisis. In recent weeks, in coordination with the action of the President of the Council, we have continued to have numerous contacts with the Foreign Ministers of the countries most directly concerned with the Libyan dossier: United States, Russia, Turkey, France, United Kingdom, Germany, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Egypt. On 7 January I met Turkish colleague Çavuşoğlu in Istanbul and the following day I attended the meeting in Cairo of some countries interested in the situation in the eastern Mediterranean with the Ministers of Egypt, France, Greece and Cyprus. It was important for Italy to be there. Italy did not sign the final declaration, because it was too unbalanced against Turkey and al-Sarraj. The strength lies in the balance and we have stressed to our interlocutors the urgent need for all external interference to cease and for every effort to support the Berlin Conference. That is the logic behind the proposal, which I put forward to my Turkish and Russian counterparts - and they accepted it - to work together on a trilateral table between Italy, Russia and Turkey for Libya. Everyone recognised Italy's fundamental role in supporting a political solution to the Libyan crisis and in facilitating the implementation of the Berlin Conference. The Italian Government's contacts with all Libyan parties were also constant, especially the talks that the President of the Council had in Rome with Mr Haftar and Mr Al-Sarraj. I am counting on continuing to meet other Libyans in the coming days. Finally, our action continues to enhance the role of neighbouring countries in Libya through their active involvement, starting with the Berlin process and its implementation mechanisms. After the meeting we had promoted in the margins of the Rome MED-Mediterranean Dialogues Conference with all the neighbouring countries on 6 December in Rome, more recently we had meetings in Algeria on 9 January and Tunisia together with Morocco, strategic partners in the region that can make a constructive contribution. Italy has been and will be present in all the formats in which decisions will be taken regarding the Libyan scenario. To sum up, we have dialogue with countries bordering Libya to actively involve them in the work of the Berlin Conference, and it is good to bear in mind that these countries have a crucial role for Libya as they have decisive influences on many of the Libyan tribes. Secondly, last week's invitation by Egypt to Cairo for a meeting of some countries interested in the Eastern Mediterranean was essential for establishing a climate of dialogue in view of the Berlin Conference and we were still present. Thirdly, the launch of a trilateral consultation with Russia and Turkey on the Libyan issue confirms the central role that is now being recognised to Italy again. Fourthly, we have promoted the coordination of the European Union within it to deal with this dossier with one voice and, therefore, with the aim of reducing internal divisions; divisions of the European Union which in the past have inevitably also affected the role of Italy. We can say that we have worked in recent weeks to be present in all the main tables of confrontation on Libya, and this will enable us to foster dialogue between the parties involved and to protect our national interests. We come to the Iranian and Iraqi scene. As in Libya, the Gulf remains at risk of a worrying escalation which would have devastating effects for the entire region. After a series of attacks and provocations, the fight and response between the United States and Iran with the killing at Baghdad airport of Iranian general Soleimani and the serious Iranian attack on two Iraqi bases hosting anti-Daesh coalition soldiers on January 8 generated very strong tensions. Iraq has harshly criticized the circumstances under which General Soleimani has found his death. The emotional wave was the basis for the approval of a parliamentary motion supported by the Prime Minister and voted in the absence of the House of Sunnis and Kurds, which commits the Commission to withdraw its request for assistance to the international coalition to fight Daesh and to end the presence of foreign troops on Iraqi territory. In assessing the facts and their consequences, the Italian Government has moved at EU, coalition and bilateral level and has given priority to four guidelines for action. The first is to contain tensions and foster dialogue between and with the actors most directly concerned; the second is to ensure the protection of our military engaged on the ground; the third is to support the efforts to combat Daesh in the framework of the international coalition; and fourthly to confirm the need to fully implement the nuclear agreement. On the first front, containing tensions and promoting dialogue, we immediately expressed concern at the dangerous degeneration of the security framework and condemned the attack on Iraqi stations hosting coalition contingents with three distinct positions. Almost unanimously, it was the voice of the European partners who, like us, made statements. We then made targeted bilateral contacts. The President of the Council had telephone conversations with the Iraqi President, who will be visiting Rome in the next few days, with the Iranian President and the emiratine Crown Prince. For my part, I have had various talks with the regional partners, which I have strongly encouraged to avoid any further action that might increase tensions. We also agreed at the European Union level at the Extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council on Friday that the Union should send a strong and high-level message to the actors concerned so that they can contribute to relaxation. We must now work to facilitate more and more dialogue between Washington and Tehran, an ambitious but indispensable aim. We take with interest the declared American and Iranian will to start a path that avoids an escalation and allows a gradual opening of channels of interlocution. We call on Iran and the United States to commit themselves without preconditions and to compromise. Secondly, the incidents which occurred in rapid succession at the end of the year have imposed a careful verification of the security conditions for our military personnel engaged in Iraq in the framework of the anti-Daesh coalition, but also of the European mission and the NATO mission. The Government considers it a priority to ensure their safety. Let us continue the confrontation with the other coalition countries on the future of the mission; we have transferred some of the quotas to safer places and temporarily moved some units to Kuwait. At the same time, the coalition decided to suspend certain activities and strengthen the safety devices at the bases. We continue to work with our international partners to ensure that all the forms of protection required by the development of the situation on the ground are put in place. The international coalition to combat Daesh - and I come to the third pillar of our action - remains a fundamental instrument, not only to counter the emergence or revitalisation of terrorist and subversive groups, but also for the future of Iraq, in terms of security, economic induced, training and reconstruction. We have no evidence to clarify whether, and when, the Iraqi Executive will follow up the motion of the Parliamentary Assembly, also because the Government is resigning. We believe, however, that, while respecting Iraqi sovereignty and, in the face of adequate security guarantees, efforts against terrorism should continue. The reflection on the future of the coalition will continue in the coming weeks. We will take part in an in-depth study planned in Copenhagen on 29 January at the level of political directors of the Foreign Ministries. Essential, on the path of renewal of the coalition, will be the plenary at ministerial level that Italy will host in the spring. We intend to facilitate a debate on the future role of the coalition in Iraq and Syria, but also on the positions of partners on foreign terrorist fighters and on the threat of terrorism on the South flank. The fourth cornerstone of our strategy is support for the nuclear agreement. At the same time as the serious events in Iraq, Tehran announced a new step backwards in the implementation of the understanding, freeing itself from the limitations related to uranium enrichment. However, it confirmed that these are reversible actions, renewing its willingness to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency. The Tehran authorities consider that, in view of their commitment to respect the obligations arising from the understanding, the other signatory parties, in particular the European Union, have failed to secure the economic advantages and facilities promised by the Agreement. We have always argued with conviction that the nuclear agreement is a pillar of the regional security architecture and a non-proliferation garrison, the only one we have at the moment. For this reason, too, we have called on Iran to restore full compliance with the agreements. This was the message we have agreed between the EU's Foreign Ministers and will continue to inspire our action. The Nuclear Agreement - as you know - is experiencing a difficult season, but its survival cannot be called into question. The E3 countries announced on 14 January the activation of the dispute resolution mechanisms that the Agreement provides for; mechanisms that do not have a punitive purpose, but are a further opportunity for confrontation and dialogue with Tehran. The High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy will oversee the exercise and we hope that Iran will grasp its cooperative nature. Let me remind you that the decision not to be part of the Nuclear Agreement's management group dates back about 17 years. Italy does not sit in Group E3 for a decision of seventeen years ago. However, I am obliged to clarify what is erroneously reported in these days about the non-information to Italy of the attack on General Soleimani. Such information, in fact, there was, from the highest levels of the U.S. State Department, in the hours immediately following the attack and inevitably immediately after that turn, precisely to the E3 countries, which, in any case, were warned to attack occurred. The incident of the Ukrainian plane shot down in Tehran during take-off with 176 passengers on board has triggered new demonstrations in the square. Among the victims of the killing, as many as 57 would be Canadians. Italy in Iran also cares for the interests of the Canadian people, the Canadian State, and for this reason I have had repeated contacts with my Canadian counterpart. The Iranian leadership, which, with the oceanic crowds of General Soleimani's funeral, has shown a compactness of its population inspired by nationalistic pride, is now on the dock of defendants for having admitted the responsibility of killing the plane with three days of delay. We ask Tehran to have full light on what has happened and to take action against those responsible. And in this sense there is the commitment of Iranian Foreign Minister Zarif. Even considering this new tension, leaving open the channels of intercourse with Iran remains fundamental to us. We are working to intensify the opportunities for bilateral contacts with Iranian counterparts, first at a technical and then political level. A bilateral agenda with Iran must be rebuilt, taking into account the general context and our interests, in the knowledge that there are political choices in Iran that we do not share. I am referring to the transfer of missile technology to non-state actors, activities that endanger the stability of the region, human rights violations. At the same time, we are intensifying bilateral cooperation and dialogue with the Arab countries of the Gulf, with which we share the need for stabilisation of the area to protect our economic interests, as well as security. In conclusion, I have tried to sum up the work carried out so far, the principles that inspired it, the strategy for future action. We will follow the debate carefully. In the wake of these latest international crises, there have been many criticisms and analyses of the role of Europe and Italy. Criticism is of course legitimate, in some cases useful. There is no doubt that the emergence of external geopolitical actors at the expense of the European countries has been fostered by European Union inerts, divisions and empty spaces as well. Steps forward have been made. Italy has made an important contribution and will be able to continue to do so if a far-sighted and shared vision prevails over short-term polemics. In foreign policy we must be united. There are no simple solutions to complex problems: counterproductive would be to face crises by trying to translate their complexity with the simplistic quest to side with one or the other. The solution, for us and for Europe, lies in the opposite. It is not a question of Circle-Bottimism, nor of naivety. To aim for sustainable political solutions, we need to play as a team, speak with a single voice, act in balance. Only then can we be credible and effective. Italy has the balance in DNA. In line with our nature and history, we can - together - give this country the role it deserves. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Misto-Leu and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u5	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Industrial Institute "Guglielmo Marconi" in Civitavecchia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, after the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, there are two possible reactions on our part in this House and also in the country. The first reaction is to criticize, to charge the government, perhaps the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the President of the Council, with such a significant task, giving them responsibility for a not particular effectiveness of our country. Frankly - I say this sincerity, having some experience - I believe that this state of mind must be rejected by the sender, because it is dictated by political prejudices, which can certainly be had but which in such a case it is particularly negative to feed, because one should try, on such a delicate dossier, to find a spirit of national unity in this House. The second reaction - sometimes echoes too - is that of a rather empty triumphalism in describing what Italy has done in this period. Let us then try to be serious and put aside these moods both wrong for opposite reasons. The Minister spoke of two factors: our security and our economic interests. We in the Mediterranean play Italian security, we play the economic interests of our country. When we talk about geopolitical issues, we talk essentially about this. So, what happened in the Mediterranean? I must say that we have also denounced it in other debates: in the Mediterranean three facts have happened, that they all bind together and if we do not bind them all together, we do not understand what is happening. In the Mediterranean, we see the European inconsistency, but not only that: even what Mr Di Maio referred to diplomatically (but it is right that he did so), that is the fact that the main European actors have moved in order scattered against each other. In doing so, they have brought absolutely nothing home, because the inconsistency of each European country has come after the European inconsistency. The second point is very sad for someone like me, who has this conviction in his DNA: we are serving, never as at this time, for many years, the inconsistency of multilateralism. The President of the Senate has rightly invited the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who has spoken from that scranno and told us, with extreme clarity, that his warnings about Libya have been completely ignored. Now, it is true that the United Nations has never been the world government, but an effective moral suasion has always exercised it: let us think about Iraq, let us think about Afghanistan, let us think about the great international issues, from Vietnam to the Cuban crisis. Today, for the first time, the voice of the United Nations is ravaging and multilateralism is weakening completely, because some world players have chosen this path. Therefore, European inconsistency and multilateralism in crisis. The third point is linked to the withdrawal of the United States. I address all those fools who in the squares of our country, in absolute good faith (but, as you know, the streets of hell are paved with good faith), many times have asked for the withdrawal of the Yankees, of the Americans. Well, now the Americans have withdrawn, they no longer need to be on the ground, because they have energy self-sufficiency, and what does that mean? That the emptiness that the Americans have left is filled by others. But do you think that fifteen years ago the Russians or Turks would have done what they are doing right now in Libya? They couldn't have done that, because the deterrent effect of American presence would have inhibited them. When they say: Di Maio, ma Conte, ma Pinco, ma Pallina... Unfortunately, our protagonists of today's politics move in a scenario that has completely changed compared to the past and that is much more difficult to manage, for a country that recalls the principles that Di Maio has recalled. I read them because I wrote them: is there anyone in this House who can say that we are opposed to the ceasefire being the best choice, to believe that there is an unworkable military road, to want a political solution, to affirm the need for Libya's integrity and that the countries close to Libya are involved? They're sacred principles. I believe that, from Salvini to the far left, everyone in this House agrees with these principles. It is clear, however, that affirming these principles when you have a weakened moral suasion becomes, at times, a proclamation of principles that then fail to be effectively translated. What is taking place in Libya? In Libya a proxy war is taking place and it is so evident that this is happening that the Russian mercenaries, who are certainly not aliens to a prior consultation with the Kremlin (in fact they withdrew from the first lines after Haftar took time to accept the conditions of Moscow), and the Turks arrive in a scenario where the real actors are the Arab Emirates, Egypt, Qatar. And where is Europe? Here the problem of Italy is extremely connected to the theme of Europe, which risks not to exist and to have in the backyard of the house someone who administers the situation not with the moral suasion, but with something different. What has happened in the territorial waters of Cyprus is very dangerous, because when the principles of international law are called into question and the perforations of the ENI, which are sacrosing, are bound to an initiative by Turkey, as it has been, this is very worrying. Colleagues, before moving on to Iran on which I will say only one thing, I just want to say - and I am speaking especially to the right, because I believe that those who come to this Parliament are certainly in good faith, even if we can then have different ideas - that sovereignism is needed here, but the sovereignism that is needed is the European one, because it is the only thing that can save us. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) M5S, PD and IV-PSI.]] National sovereignism, in fact, is only voleitarianism because in the world that is emerging today, the traditional nations will no longer count for anything. It is not said that it can count Europe, but if we do not assert principles as a common foreign and defence policy, it will certainly not count Europe either. And we come to Iran: I must say that I disagree with the American position. I mean it honestly, even though I will represent myself, and clearly. This position vis-à-vis Iran is different from that of Europe: Europe certainly does not have the strength to assert its position, which, among other things, is very damaging to Italy's interests, which, as you know, until some time ago was Iran's first trading partner. Beyond that, it is said that Iran has connivance with Hezbollah and Hamas: it is certainly true and we know that a Shiite corridor has been created from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean Sea which includes Iran, Iraq, Syria and Hezbollah in Lebanon to the latter country. However, we fought ISIS and the Islamic State, but the Islamic State did not help Iran, it is the product of the Sunni world. The latter has fed the Islamic State heavily from the financial point of view and has lingered to fight against it, considering it for a long time as a stumbling block, there in the middle, compared to the Shiite corridor, for which it was fine, until the point at which it was not known that this cancer had to be combated, this tumor. I am not saying that there are good people and bad people, I am saying that we must work to ensure that there is a balance between the Shiite world and the Sunni world, without forgetting that deepening the divisions of the Sunni world - which today is another huge issue - is wrong, because it is a question of trying to work "with." Colleagues, these are the reflections that I have made on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies: I hope that there can be a common orientation of this House and of this Parliament because the Government, which is in a very difficult condition, as Europe is, needs to be assisted at least in Italy, that is in the Homeland, by the consent of all of us. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD and IV-PSI and Senator Monti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u8	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u9	Mr President, I have listened to the words of the Minister and Mr Casini, who, when he says that national sovereignism is not necessary, finds me in a diametrically opposite position. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In Europe - we all know this - France's interest is different from Italy's, so it should tell Macron that national sovereignty does not exist. As far as Minister Di Maio is concerned, I have listened carefully to him and will return the most important points below. I would like to focus on the passage in which he said 'I heard the Merkel' and, again, 'la Merkel' told me: he has appointed her three times in this House. Well, we don't take orders from Merkel; we take orders from Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Merkel from here, the Merkel from there, the Merkel from there, also told us that yesterday at the meeting "Macron" told us to do "Macron" and that we must all be united. Nice words. No to military actions: but who wants military actions? He said that the political process and the meetings must be done, that we must go to Palermo, he said that the Palermo Conference was held and that the Berlin Conference will be held on Sunday. Nice words, but there is one missing and it is: "courage", the courage of this nation. We have to start having a vision. We must have the vision, Minister, not the others! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As Senator Casini rightly said he freed himself, a vacuum, we remember who did the damage in Libya in 2011: we did not do the damage in 2011 and we are in this situation today to have to resolve them. However, since there is a void, we can fill it: if the United States of America, as Senator Casini said, have abandoned the void and are no longer interested in the Libyan question, it can be Italy that fills it, since Libya is close. Our interest is there, it must be us who lead the game and not let the others lead us, because Berlin and France are far from Libya, while we have it here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] When we feel that in this very delicate situation, in addition to migrants, refugees arrive, that is, Libyan citizens who are in situations of war all arrive in Italy, we believe that it is our country that must lead the game: it is we who must dictate the line, it is we who must demonstrate the courage of a nation as big as ours and how we want to resolve the situation. I understand that the other issue, concerning Iran and Iraq, is perhaps distant to us, but Libya is there. So it takes a lot of courage, what I don't see in you: the courage of a nation. It takes a vision. As far as the issue of Iran and Iraq is concerned, you have taken a ride, but something really terrible has happened in that country. In Iran - they say by mistake, but we must go to check - they have shot down a civil plane and this country must express a huge condemnation of this fact, because 176 people have died. It's a battle we really care about. In conclusion, as far as we are concerned, our position is that we must be able to have a vision, courage and face responsibilities, but Italy must be the driving force and it must be Italy that must give the vision on the Libyan issue. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u10	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u11	Mr President, Government, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, our vice-president, Mr Garavini, will then speak for my Group. I would just like to make a reflection focused mainly on the security of our military abroad, as you, Minister, have pointed out in your information, and then in line with Senator Casini's words. There is, of course, great concern on the part of all of us and I believe that this information is useful precisely to reassure and speak first of all to our citizens. There is apprehension for our military abroad, to which endless thanks go for what they are doing in so many scenarios of war. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] It is a thank you from Parliament and the Senate and it is a full support to the activities they carry out every day on the territories of war. The other issue is national security. You, Minister, have also mentioned this aspect. We know that after Germany, we are the second country in Europe for number of American bases on our territory. Vicenza, my city, is one of those on which a reflector has been rekindled at the moment: there are again movements and activists who have made themselves felt. In this regard too, I would like to reassure our cities which for years have been hosting important American bases on our territories. In my city there are two American bases and another in the same province, so there is one issue that should not be underestimated and I believe that bringing these aspects to Parliament's attention is also a way to restore authority to our country at this time. From this point of view, the Berlin Conference as well as all the appeals and points you have highlighted, starting with the need to regain an incisive and authoritative role of the European Union and Italy. In fact, we cannot afford that in the U.S.-Iran conflict, as on the destabilisation of Iraq and on the ten-year war that Libya sees strongly in crisis, in difficulty, with destabilising and very worrying scenarios, there is no recovery of Italy's authority. We cannot allow it to happen that Italy, as unfortunately we are also reading these days, can be somehow replaced by other actors who have come to the international scene: the Russians, on the one hand, and the Turks, on the other. So there is no criticism about this; on the contrary, we maintain, like Italy Viva, that there is absolutely a strong role and a spirit of national unity, but we ask loudly that Italy in no way be replaced by other actors who are dangerously, in these hours, trying to assume a more protagonist role. This is precisely because we are interested in maintaining our security and, at the same time, in defending and protecting important economic interests, which are not only those of the ENI: I am thinking about immigration and infrastructure, as President Renzi has repeatedly said in the newspapers these days. Minister, our call is to continue the important work of weaving that Italy has always been able to carry on and to find a united spirit of the whole European Union, which, unfortunately, we see today, is in great difficulty. We thank you and wish you good work. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Valente]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u12	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving in an objectively much more complicated context than in previous months. The elements of tension in the Middle East theatre and in the Central and Eastern Mediterranean have obviously grown, just mention Turkish intervention in Syria, the failure, I would say, or at least the stalemate in the negotiations in Doha between the Taliban and the United States, and the advance of Haftar, which evidently changed the balance, moving on the military field a dialogue that was already difficult from the political-diplomatic point of view. To this have been added the tensions in the Persian Gulf, where the control of the navigation is more and more difficult and is one of the most delicate passages on the front of the energetic supplyings. From this point of view, the re-emergence of the last few weeks, which led to the killing of Soleimani and al-Muhandis, resulted in Iran's declaration of exit from JCPOA (Joint comprehensive plan of action). I think that even on the nuclear side, although we are not part of the E3 Group, as you said, Minister, we still need to be present and the fact that Borrell, the High Representative, is present at the E3 Group meetings is a guarantee for Europe. I think Italy still needs to invest in that perspective. However, it is much more complicated for us to move to a theater where we have always had a political capital to spend and where our strongest ally, namely the United States, has decided to withdraw and make some choices also of reconfiguration of its structures. Those voids left free by the United States were inevitably occupied by Russia above all, but also by Turkey. This questions Italian diplomacy, but also the choices of this Government. Let's start with Libya. I want to say this very clearly: we are trying to recover ground because those who had registered the Libyan dossier in the past Government and, that is, Salvini, flanked by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, decided to abandon the political-diplomatic presence in Libya and chose to withdraw the device within the Central Mediterranean. It was a very clear choice. We have not invested politically in the political dialogue between Libyan actors, obsessed with migratory flows. Haftar's military initiative started in that vacuum and now it is difficult to recover, even if I have to say one thing. I want to say it with objective data: Minister Di Maio and Minister Guerini have done in the last month more missions and meetings - I counted them - than in fourteen months we have done Moavero Milanesi and Salvini. I want to stress this by acknowledging to the Government that it is working and recovering a complicated and difficult dossier to manage. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I come to the other uphill road: rightly - and I agree with that - we have chosen not to follow the military option. Let's say that then, in the face of media reconstruction and some attacks by the opposition, it is said that Turkey and Russia are now involved. We have made a consistent choice with our Constitution: no to the military option and to the sale of arms when a country is at war and has a growing conflict within it; yes to the sending of soldiers where there is the maintenance of the ceasefire and there is the construction of a necessary consensus. From this point of view, I think the work that is being done is correct. We need to invest more politically and diplomatically. We have a capital to do and I think that it must also be explained to the Libyan actors that the risk of relying only on their protectors who feed the war by proxy can lead to the partition of Libya and to define, in fact, the protectors where those who today have their autonomy risk losing it. Europe and other allies can ensure, from this point of view, that Libya is not divided and can have a future. Sure, it's hard and complicated. I think the lines of action outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs are correct. Our task today is to work and create conditions for at least substantial maintenance of the ceasefire. There is full support, in cooperation with his colleague Maas and Chancellor Merkel, for the full success of the Berlin Conference: we are all committed, as European partners, to success. I think it is also appropriate to invest in the technical trilateral with Russia and Turkey, that Italy has a role in it and that there is a channel of dialogue and daily placement, as well as the work done on the southern shore of the Mediterranean to involve all the actors on the southern shore: Algeria's role from this point of view is definitely fundamental. Minister, I'd like to add two points. I'll give them to you. I have not heard of the involvement of representatives of local communities and mayors. I remember that in Minniti's time there was a great deal of investment in this aspect. I say this because, having to follow the diplomatic political path and not being able to follow the military option, I think that the role of the mayors of the local communities and the Libyan associationism, that there is and that had given rise to a forum of dialogue, is useful to make pass the message that investing on peace, on the ceasefire and on the Berlin Conference can be the way to guarantee the autonomy and territorial integrity of the country. The other point is the involvement of the United States. I say this by making a broader reflection that affects all of us (and, Minister, we must also call to responsibility all the representatives of the Government and its closest collaborators): I refer to Iraq and the role that Italy can also have in a reconfiguration of our presence. Well, when we talk, as Minister Guerini did today to the Joint Commissions, about a possible shift, to be discussed in Parliament too, from the willing coalition, the coalition of the willing, to the NATO perimeter, does not mean that we change our work and raise the quality of our intervention, but we change it and invest more on the training of the police forces and on the stabilisation of the country, still maintaining a garrison for the fight against Daesh. That reconfiguration also protects the American ally, so symbolically there must be a change of pace in Iraq, after what happened. Our greatest presence and our greatest political and military capital in that region can also be spent on asking for an upgrade of the US commitment to the Libyan dossier, which I think and think is fundamental, in order to ensure not only the ceasefire, but also the possibility of truly starting an international mission leading Europe. I think we should try to invest in a commitment of the United Nations, because if it comes to the Security Council, it is easier than Russia, the United States and China, the main international actors, then they do not go out in front of a heavy commitment, such as investing in a theatre like the Libyan one. I therefore welcome the direction taken by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I think that, from this point of view, we must invest in the success of the Berlin Conference. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and IV-PSI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u14	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u15	Minister, I would like to start with a premise and points on which I think our Group and the whole of Parliament agree with what you have said. Firstly, there is the fight against terrorism, on which I think nothing can be said at all. The fight against ISIS or Daesh, to say the least, should be a foundation of our battle and I believe that we must agree with you on this, Minister. Then there is support for our armed forces abroad, engaged in peacekeeping missions. On this point too, as other Members have already done, on behalf of the whole Group I believe that I can bring our support to the Armed Forces, which carry on our values of civilization and our willingness to help the people who are most in difficulty. Turning specifically to your speech, Minister, on the one hand there is the Iranian question, in which President Trump's action, defined by too many as reckless, is bringing to light internal aspects of the Iranian regime, which have often been forgotten or set aside for too many. There is no doubt that, in compliance with the internal decisions of a sovereign state, the clashes that are taking place in the streets these days, contained by the Iranian forces, even by force, are the symptoms of a social malaise, which most international powers, except for the United States and Israel, have all too often failed to see and emphasize. On the other of the fronts that have led us to today's debate, that is the Libyan one, we are witnessing a ballet - we can see it seeing the press notes and the various news that arrives - in which, however, Russia and Turkey are leading the pace. As a corollary of this dance, played by military battles and with the blood of civilians on the territory, there are then the diners, who are invited not to spite and who are completely silent and of a purely decorative nature. Both on the Middle East and in the Libyan front, we have seen, as Italy and as Europe, mere spectators, but this you, Minister, and the whole Government know this and that is precisely why you come here today to tell us that Italy has played a leading role. Minister, you have reported that Italy has been a fundamental part of all the political and diplomatic action that has led to the achievement and packaging of the Berlin Conference, that we all hope will succeed. But I do not see this leading role and, unfortunately, I am not the only one. We have seen many press releases and flying interviews, in which you and President Conte, in a perhaps cumbersome version for you, wish for a more important role than what you have. I would like to draw your attention to a few recent statements on the subject of international chessboards and, in particular, to the role that has been required - or rather, it is hoped - for Europe for decades now. There are too many of them, and I can't quote them all. The problem is that the result of all this action (beyond the words and relationships that, as Senator Casini also said, are beautiful, of role and opportune) has not come: of "dirty" - let me say the expression - there is nothing. The energy and power battle in place today among the major powers, before being fought must be understood and understood, but in order to do this, as I imagine you will have had the opportunity to guess, sometimes you have to make silence and deepen the way you act without struggling. Struggling in foreign policy all too often causes greater damage than silence itself. Let me give you a suggestion as a mere representative of the people: the press releases and statements you made when you held the position of Minister to the Ministry of Economic Development in foreign policy do not serve. In fact, all too often they are deleterious and not only for you, Minister, but also for our country and for everything that concerns our appearance. On the other hand, now, the marginality of our country on the international scene is evident to everyone. It is not us, but the majority of foreign observers, to say it. The attempt to organize a table, out of time and without the necessary conditions, by President Conte is a clear sign of this and any further statement made in an attempt to minimize what happened only makes reality worse. I mean, the patch is worse than the hole. I suggest something. Among the various topics that will be discussed at the Berlin Conference is one that has already been discussed at the table between Russia and Turkey. One of the main points of the agreement should be to allow the safe passage of humanitarian assistance services. Here, for example, I have not heard from you any kind of word about humanitarian assistance to people in difficulty. I believe that if Italy fails to play another role, at least it should commit itself to this. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What can I say, Minister? We can only hope for his active repentance, which will result in a full awareness of the need to start from scratch, with the awareness, however, that the international irrelevance that President Conte had initially averted, given his closeness to all the greats of Europe, seems to be no longer counting. I would also remind you that the Conference held in Palermo was attended by President Conte, but I do not see much results. Yet the government - it is true - has changed, but the President is the same. Let me say something else. It will then be the citizens who will suffer all the consequences of a choice of international policy that we call too influential at international level, because they will be the ones who will also bear and support economically the effects of a Libyan crisis that, at the moment, does not see a great exit. I am thinking, in particular, of the energy sector (because, in the end, the bills are paid by the citizens) and of immigration (because we have already seen what a policy on reckless immigration means). Perhaps you, Minister, and the people's lawyer, do not care, because if the people were really at the heart of your interests, you would listen to him and have him voted. But democracy today, of course, is scary. Congratulations! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u17	Minister, I have listened carefully to you and I must say that there have been, in my view, some omissions in the report, although it is complete, which you have done today. The main omission is, in my view, the trigger of some crises in the Middle East. The triggering reason is a novelty that has occurred in the Islamic world: this world is no longer divided, as it used to be, between Sunnis and Shiites; the Sunni world pays to the end a process of fragmentation that is taking place between so-called moderate Sunnis, those of Saudi Arabia, the Emirates and Egypt, and those instead linked to movements close to the Muslim Brotherhood. Muslim brotherhood, in turn, is evicted in movements that support the jihadist militias, Daesh, al-Qaeda and, al-Nusra, present in Syria. The second element of novelty - but this you, Minister, have emphasized - is that in Libya is happening what unfortunately has already happened in Syria: a conflict for proxy between foreign powers, which directly invests the national interest: who governs Tripoli, governs the migratory processes, energy processes and probably also the terrorist processes that can invest our country. The Istanbul Agreement, before, and the Moscow Agreement, after, between Putin and Erdogan - I stress: with the total absence of Western countries - has made Moscow and Ankara the new protagonists of politics in the central Mediterranean, which is the strategic hub of relations between Africa and Europe. All this happens a few hundred kilometers from our maritime borders. But the re-proposition in Libya of the so-called Syrian pax is comforted by the fact that, on the one hand, al-Sarraj is supported by Turkey and Qatar with men, militias (including militias that fought in Syria) and damars; on the other hand, that of Haftar, is supported by the Emirates, Egypt and Russia. This has transformed Libya - as I said before - into the new front of confrontation between the two sides in struggle for the leadership of the Sunni world: on the one hand, Turkey and Qatar who support the Government of the now worn out international body and, on the other, the Emirates, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. So a confrontation not only political and military, but also religious. The fragmentation of Sunni Islam polarizes in this case among those who consider the Muslim Brotherhood the purest expression of political Islam, and the group of countries, including Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, as I said before, who consider it instead the expression of a dangerous group of terrorists, who have as their sole intent to destroy Arab national states in order to return, as they say vulgarly, power to the Ottomans. This is the underlying reason why Haftar did not want to sign Moscow's Diktat Agreement: because his contacts are not only the tribes of Cyrenaica, but are called Mohammed Bin Zayed, Mohammed Bin Salman, al-Sisi. These people, who are the presidents of their respective countries, claim that in North Arab Africa there is no longer an island connected with Muslim Brotherhood. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , because they want to win the battle of religious supremacy in the Sunni world. One of the many serious things that happened during this period was also the military and maritime pact signed by Erdogan with al-Sarraj: they created a territorial continuity between Libyan waters and Turkish waters, and they divided the Mediterranean into two, hitting the energy and strategic interests of countries such as Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Egypt and - let me say - even a country called Italy. But I'll come back to that later. For the sake of Fatherland I want to fly over the painful episode of the summit with Haftar, who had come to Rome for many other reasons, not to meet the Italian Government; he had an appointment with two senior officials of the State Department: that was his appointment. When you noticed it, in a somewhat grotesque way you remodeled the agenda of Haftar and your agenda, and you claimed to meet him, while, of course, creating a scorn towards the Government of al-Sarraj, which you supported, who brutally slammed the door in the face of the President of the Italian Council, who supported him. But, by chance, both leaders, when summoned by Erdogan and Putin, immediately ran to Moscow to find that understanding. But diplomatic catastrophe after diplomatic catastrophe, you, Minister, and this really surprised me, refused to sign a document signed by France, Egypt, Cyprus and Greece, in which the maritime pact between al-Sarraj and Erdogan became empty and null. You have to explain to me why this is so extraordinary. In order not to create a dispute with Turkey, which has interfered in our affairs? Not to create a dispute with al-Sarraj, who slammed the door in her face? Why wouldn't you sign it? It was only a document which declared, however, null that evil maritime pact which separated the central Mediterranean in two. The only thing you did was to invoke an international intervention on the UNIFIL model in southern Lebanon. Speaking of UNIFIL, I think you are aware that every week, in southern Lebanon, there are tripartite meetings between the international organization, represented by the blue helmets, led today by the Italian general, Israel and Hezbollah. In Lebanon, the UN International Organization, which takes orders directly from the UN Secretary-General, regularly meets an organization that, in the United States, is considered a terrorist organization. Therefore, the complexity and contradictions of the Middle East, in my opinion, must be analysed for what they are. Here I will make a few remarks, which I do not know if President Casini will appreciate, courageous in relation to the politics of the United States. I think that the various American administrations have basically destabilised the Middle East over the past few decades. They improperly invaded Iraq. They have given support, with the Obama administration, to the Arab Springs, creating the disasters that this support has generated. They supported jihadist criminal organizations in the war in Syria. They supported the Kurds, and then suddenly withdrew the support given to them when it was no longer needed. And they ended this process of destabilisation with the murder of General Qasem Soleimani. Just a joke about this, of a general nature, Minister. I remain convinced that in Western countries the use of violence must be subject to certain rules, those of the values that we represent. If we want to be respected in the world, we must first respect those rules. I do not know whether the decision to kill, in the middle of a street, a high exponent of a sovereign government respects these rules. Soleimani was not considered as a dangerous and pronounced international terrorist. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Soleimani participated in the war against ISIS. The Shiite brigades gave a strong, huge, incredible tribute of blood to free cities like Mosul, like Raqqa, like Aleppo. Did they do it for heroism? Did they do it because they were on our side? Did they do it because they were allies to the international coalition? I know they did. And killing Soleimani today, in my opinion, re-proposes the terms of the relationship with Iran again. Iran is a semi-democracy, and I do not know whether President Casini will make me pass the term; a semi-democracy, where one votes, however, for a President of the Republic with executive power but controlled by Shiite religious authorities. That Iran wants to consolidate the Shiite Crescent in the Middle East and wants to find its own role in the negotiating table that presides over the resolution of crises. That table is called Astana in the case of Syria and is regularly invited there. Tables that, of course, do not foresee the participation of Western countries. Simply put, we demand that Iran play a role, but we demand, at the same time, that it not become a nuclear power. And we activate a principle of sanctions against this country, impoverishing its population and certainly benefiting the most extremist parts of that country and not the most moderate parts. But do you think this is rational and reasonable? Do you think this can and should be the policy of Western countries? These are questions I ask myself, Minister; none of us have the solution. You said, at one of the five points of your information, no to the military option. I tell you frankly that if we do not assume responsibility we will not only not be the protagonists of peace, peace and stabilisation tables, but we will not be invited to the tables either. No to the military option means contradicting also the politics of this country: we fought in Afghanistan, we - and it was a huge mistake - bombed Libya, we participated actively in a war in the Balkans, imposing peace. In the grammar of international diplomacy, there are peacekeeping missions and there are peace enforcing missions and therefore the choice is not always no to the military option, this means then leave free to those who instead to different types of military actions and options are activated and are in a position to do so; as demonstrated in Libya and as demonstrated in Syria. You spoke before the embargo was under control, and indeed, in some respects, EUNAVFOR Med provides for military intervention even on the Libyan coasts, and when you have to worry about securing the arms embargo in Libya - which is not guaranteed today - you will have to activate an option that I do not know if you will call military, but that is a different option from a peace table. I'll tell you then, Minister, that we've made some very bad figures this week. Italy is excluded from the tables that matter. You are so proud to go to 2 p.m. next Sunday in Berlin, but the Berlin Conference is a formal act, in which the Moscow Agreement will be ratified, which was preceded by the Istanbul Agreement and where the only players who have remained on the ground are Turkey and Russia. The overinvestment you've made and you're doing on international organizations doesn't lead anywhere. Reclaim for our country, which you represent, what you have not done to date, also activating a series of options that obviously oblige that Government to assume the only responsibilities that then allow it to participate effectively in the solutions and tables of peace. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u18	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, in the Defense Commissions of the House and Senate, in joint session here in the Senate, we heard the information of Minister Guerini, as urged by the Groups of Brothers of Italy and those of other political forces. 12:57 p.m. (Rauti follow-up). A hearing with the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the Foreign Chamber and Senate Committees in joint session would have been helpful. Last night we also attended the Palazzo Chigi table with the President of the Count Council and we have now listened to you in the Chamber, while we will not have the question time with the President scheduled for Thursday. The whole picture, therefore, could and should - even in its inevitable complexity - appear clear and instead there is no clarity and there is no clarity on neurological issues. Italy has moved - it would have to be said, rather, that it has been agitated - interlocating, it is true, with international diplomacy, according to a line that the President last night defined of coherence, but what does not appear is the consistency of this line, the concreteness, what the ancients defined the ubi consistam. In particular, I want to refer to the crisis of the Libyan scenario, where a prolonged European and Italian absence that of course - we admit - precedes you, combined with an American retreat, has allowed new actors to become protagonists in the area and if once there was the fundamental role recognized to the tribes now we also - allow me the expression - a tsar and a sultan, who in the protection of their respective and very different geopolitical and economic interests, have become fundamental and practically exclusive players. That's the point. Meanwhile, Italian interlocutions with al-Sarraj and Haftar took place - as everyone knows - in a messy setting and with a few stumbling blocks - let's say so - of ceremonial and diplomacy. Even if we do not escape and no one escapes the importance of our participation in the Berlin Conference, which we hope will go better than that of Palermo, scheduled for Sunday at 2 p.m., which will be attended (we know now) also by the American Secretary of State Pompeo, what we continue to escape, however, is what we are going to say in Berlin. What is the Italian position with regard to some central issues? Since there is no doubt that the common objective is to arrive at the Conference with a truce signed by Mr Haftar, who instead asked for time to sign it, today the ceasefire is fragile and we do not see anything substantial at all, as the President-in-Office of the Council called it last night and as you yourself said in this House; nor are we sincerely convinced that it could stand, if it was not also signed by the strong man of Cyrenaica. In fact, behind al-Sarraj there is Erdogan's Turkey, which Haftar does not want at the table; I also want to draw attention to the fact that Erdogan is the imperialist (we also remember the attitude he had with Syria) that stands as a reference of the Sunni fundamentalists. Then, if behind al-Sarraj there is Erdogan's Turkey, behind Haftar there are Russia, but also Saudi Arabia, the Arab Emirates, Egypt. In short, an extreme complexity, which in relationships does not emerge in its entirety. In this fluid scenario, the central question that arises is the hypothesis that one hears the insistence of the sending of a supranational armed force: a mission of interposition, that can monitor and guarantee the respect of the ceasefire. We do not know whether this mission would take place with the blue helmets - under the auspices of the United Nations - or in a different form, as we have read and heard practically everywhere, which means, with the sending of a European contingent. In this case, the underlying question (another question) is which European country should have its guide and command. France, which in Libya has always played its exclusive and selfish game, without entering into the merits of the 2011 conflict against Gaddafi, and which today is pressing for a European contingent? Or could the guide be Italy, for its history and its vocation, as well as for its geopolitical position in the international scenario? Moreover, there is no clarity about our military missions in the Middle East and Libya, in Misrata, at a time when the scenarios are radically modified. We have been told (but it is obvious) that the security measures have been lifted and the training activities that our contingents have been carrying out for a long time have been suspended, but we do not know the operational posture of our contingents, exposed to a potential risk and side effects and what are the actual security conditions in which our military are operating. In fact, if the scenarios change - and have dramatically changed - the missions also have to change, they have to be adequately financed, to an exceptional and extraordinary extent; new and clear rules of engagement have to be defined. All this does not emerge. Another chiaroscuro, Minister, concerns the statements that I have heard about Libya united, free and sovereign and the important territorial integrity of Libya: certainly a beautiful concept. So your position is not the one that provides a solution even at the price of the partition and division of Libya between Cyrenaica and Tripolitania (remember that Fezzan also exists, with its autonomy and anarchy), as President Conte and the Undersecretary for Defense Tofalo said yesterday in a wide and articulated interview? I do not understand the three positions how they can be reduced to unity and which is the Italian one. And then the other aspect: another important element, but confused, is the question of the naval blockade, a proposal bouncing in the press, which lacks elements of definition and which we do not know, and we will go to Berlin to say so. Given that historically Brothers of Italy has always invoked - and continues to do so - the creation of a naval blockade off the coast of Libya in order to face the clandestine migratory waves, preventing the boats of death from leaving; saying that you have never listened to us and have argued that it was an impossible hypothesis and an act of war; today you give us reason, but you do not explain how you would intend to carry out such a blockade - or maritime ban, as you have also called it on another occasion - and how it should affect only the traffic of weapons that arrive also by land and air; as well as how possibly the operation Sophia EUNAVFOR Med, without a real naval force, could carry out this task; and again, what are our positions on the no-fly zones and on the safety of the ENI installations that are not spoken of enough. Wanting to be clear, jumping a few steps and going to conclude, with a responsible position and not polemic, because we always put Italy and national unity, foreign policy, at a time when it seems that Europe has lost the diplomatic challenge, the foreign policy of the Government seems inconsistent, based on slogans and propaganda, on a substantial political marginality of our country, within the framework of an absence of strategy of the European Union, unable to speak with a single and clear voice. We do not appear to be central, as a peacemaker, beyond your storytelling; we seem to be attached to the division of Libya between Russia and Turkey and, above all, we do not play a central and fundamental role. We are not influential, we are inconsistent and it is not enough to say that we are waiting for the Berlin Conference with triumphalism: in Libya there is not only an energy heritage, but through it passes a vast political and geopolitical design that can condition the rest of the world, national security, the global fight against jihadist terrorism, fundamentalist and threatening political Islam and Sunni fundamentalism. In the face of all this challenge, choosing not to choose is, however, a serious responsibility, the worst. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u20	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to remind my colleague, Mr Romani, who spoke earlier and rightly condemned the attack on Libya in 2011, that his party was in the government: no lessons, therefore, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Trump's decision to eliminate Iranian general Qasem Soleimani is having opposite effects to what perhaps the President of the United States and the Pentagon expected: not a weakening of Iran and a strengthening of American hegemony in the Middle East, but the opposite. First of all, a necessary premise must be made: to our American historian allies we remind that, while we understand the concerns about Iran's growing military activism in the Middle East, the practice of targeted murders is a violation of international law that not only damages the image of American democracy in the world, but constitutes a very worrying precedent. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Trump's action has strengthened the most self-righteous fans of the Tehran regime, making dialogue more difficult and weakening the moderate forces that have been fighting for decades for the democratization and secularization of Iran and that today return to the streets in the wave of anger for the killing of the passenger plane. The first concrete result is the departure of Tehran from the international agreement on Iranian nuclear, which Trump had first disowned in 2018, a turning point that raises serious alarm and puts global security at risk and that we must do everything we can to prevent. Italy, thanks to its historic good relations, both with Tehran and Washington, must be in the front row to save this very important agreement. Unfortunately, in 2003 the Berlusconi Government prevented Italy from joining the European Contact Group; the time has come to remedy this very serious mistake, returning to be the protagonists of this negotiation. Bringing Iran back to the international community is desirable not only for the preservation of regional and global peace, but also to defuse the ever-closer spiral of sanctions that are strangling the Iranian economy, but are also damaging our country. Just think of the collapse of the volumes of interchange between Italy and Iran. Import fell from 3 billion in 2018 to 120 million in 2019; exports more than halved, from 1.7 billion in 2018 to around 700 million in 2019. Our goal must always be to pursue our national interests, to be protagonists and not to recite a script written by others, which often diverges and even conflicts with our geopolitical and economic goals. Trump's unilateral action has further destabilised the Middle East Region, also increasing the risks to our troops present in large numbers throughout that area, to which our thanks go, of course, from Iraq, Lebanon, Afghanistan. I believe it is time to consider, together with our partners, whether the conditions exist for reconsidering the manner and consistency of our mission to support the fight against terrorism. It is no less urgent than the assessment already made for the mission in Afghanistan, which must include us in a broader remodulation of our military presence abroad. I thank Minister Luigi Di Maio who, with his words and his work, is demonstrating lucidity, balance and a great sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Contrary to those who, in the desperate attempt to accredit themselves in Washington's eyes, irresistibly applaud the assassination of a high exponent of a sovereign country without assessing the serious consequences, even for us Italians. It's not sovereignism. The Minister's approach, which is that of the entire 5 Star Movement, stems from the simple observation of what has happened in the Middle East in the last thirty years of history and, that is, that the use of force and weapons never solves problems, but creates more problems; it does not bring peace and stability, but generates violence and chaos. Only dialogue and respect for international law guarantee peaceful coexistence between peoples. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u22	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u23	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot yet breathe a sigh of relief. The situation, at least in Libya, continues to be explosive and the problem is that, however the situation evolves, the tensions of the last few days in the Middle East are destined to have in any case worrying repercussions in Italy and Europe. First of all, in terms of foreign policy, Europe in the Mediterranean has shrunk these days and this is serious because when we leave a vacuum, this is filled and not always by forces that go and do good. Seeing Russia and Turkey aspiring hegemonies in front of our doors is proof that something has gone wrong in recent weeks. Moreover it is probable that there will be a resumption of the migratory flows from the Libyan ports already in the last days, during the weekend, the non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have begun again to intercept hundreds of refugees at sea in situations of danger. At the same time, the risk of a new rise in terrorist attacks around Europe is also increasing and it is not to be ruled out that possible problems may arise in oil supplies. So there is still a great danger, even in a territory in which Italy has historically always played an important role, as a protagonist. Moreover, needless to hide it, there is the fact that our country does not have a basic say in the matter; which makes it even more alarming. The years and times in which the central-left governments, the Renzi Governments and the Silveri Gentilons, managed to bring the Mediterranean back into the agendas of both NATO and the European Union, seem now light years away. With the Legist-led Government, in fact, especially on Libya many mistakes have been made by our country. First of all, Italy had stopped dealing with foreign policy: it declined foreign policy exclusively in terms of migration issues. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI),]] leaving out everything else: good neighbourliness policy, support for exports, energy interests of Italians. Moreover, Italy has deserted the various ministerial summits, both at European and international level. Unfortunately, even recently, Italy, for example, did not participate in the last G20, causing an unhappy and dangerous isolation of our country. It is no coincidence that we have not pursued any clear international strategy, even creating confusion even in terms of the confirmation of our historical allies. As a corollary to this situation, which is already very worrying in itself, there is the fact that Europe has had several difficulties speaking with one voice for years. Here we need a clear change in Italy's political action on foreign issues. First of all, it is necessary that Italy sits continuously at all European and international tables, both technical, preparatory to the various summits, and political ones, and that we return to politics with capital P. Foreign policy cannot be left to the improvisation of the last moment, in the event of an emergency or near the outbreak of a war. Foreign policy is based on the credibility of actors and trusted relationships built over the years. Moreover, it is important to start from the assumption - also this is a legacy of the previous Government - that no single country can do it alone. On the contrary, the splits within Europe and the consequent immobilism of the European Union do nothing but favour external countries; all in all, Turkey and Russia themselves have been able to take advantage of this, of individual selfishness and therefore, in fact, they have tried to fill the void that has been created. We need, then, a compact, concerted action at European level; it is appropriate and strategic to act as Europe also and above all on foreign policy and defence policy issues, by relaunching the project of a European army, which puts all the Member States in a position to make the weight of a great democratic force such as the European Union strong, even compared to global giants such as Russia, China, the United States or other emerging realities. We must also be clear and consistent in terms of alliances. Trump is a president who often gives the creeps, but it is also true that a president does not make the country he represents. In this respect, I believe that the United States continues to be our main allies, despite the contingent difficulties of this political phase. At the same time, I believe that the new international context does not admit naivety. We must interpret the foreign policies of others well. For Erdogan, the war mission in Libya, probably, is not so much the instrument to trigger a real war conflict as the deterrent against Russia in order to be able to participate in the partition of Libya and strengthen its geopolitical weight throughout the Mediterranean area to the detriment of Europe, taking advantage of the same European divisions. It is a good thing, then, that Europe, after weeks of silence, is finally getting ready to try to boycott Russia and Turkey's attempt to leave Libya's areas of influence on its own, in such a strategic area for us. It is a good thing that the date of the Libya Peace Conference has been set and confirmed, to be held in Berlin, with all the actors in the field, including the countries close to Libya. Yes, as you said, Minister, we must work towards a political solution in which Europe but also Italy regains an important role, continuing to insist on an immediate embargo of arms directed to Libya and also restoring - we hope - Operation Sophia, in a version that sees again the involvement of both the Navy and the Air Force, and also of the fleets of other European nations, aimed, therefore, at an effective contrast to the traffickers of human beings, the defence of borders and also the rescue of refugees at sea. Let us also welcome the sending of a European peacekeeping force to Libya, with the participation of Italian soldiers under the aegis of the United Nations, provided that - of this must surely be acknowledged to the Government - an agreement is reached and that the security conditions for our Armed Forces are guaranteed. Even in Iran the situation continues to be highly at risk, despite the easing of tension in the region. Thank goodness there were no casualties; it is good that the defence immediately provided for security measures in support of our women and men engaged in missions. Only, unfortunately, with the killing of Soleimani by an American raid, all that climate of anti-Americanism and, indirectly, even anti-Westernism throughout the Middle East has again been stirred up. This climate, therefore, could also affect the whole Western world, bringing back the risk of new terrorist attacks and a new resumption of the spiral of violence in the various European cities. On the one hand, nobody, even among the parties involved, probably hopes to trigger a war, but how easy it is for the situation to get out of hand has been seen, for example, with the explosion of the Ukrainian Boeing and with the consequent death of all passengers on board. That is why all channels of dialogue must be kept open. Europe cannot and must not wait on this too; nor can it stand by and wait for the actions of others. In particular, the Minister's commitment to re-establishing the nuclear dialogue today is positive, because, although the events make it unlikely to resume the dialogue, it is absolutely important that everything be done to get the process back on track. In this respect, the relaunching of economic trade between Europe and Iran can be useful, precisely because, at a delicate stage like this, Iran's isolation must be reduced and there must be reasons to avoid a new nuclear race. With regard to the situation in Iraq, however, I believe that we should continue to anticipate the presence of our soldiers engaged in training local forces. In short, Minister, Italy must return to being a protagonist and a driving force capable of driving Europe into foreign policy, first and foremost on all the issues that concern the Mediterranean area. Mr President, I would like to send, on behalf of the whole of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but I am also sure on behalf of the whole of this House, that it is a heartfelt expression of gratitude and closeness to all the women and men of our armed forces, particularly in the missions in the territories covered by our information. There are 2,240 between Iraq, Libya and Iran. Our great appreciation for the presence and value they express for being men and women of peace, expressions of democracy, committed not only to the security of Italy, but to security at global level, goes to them and their families. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Di Maio for his report, in which I think he has shown very clearly - and I would like to say this in the context of my speech - that there is a reversal of the trend in our foreign policy, particularly in the Mediterranean area. I say this without any whining and no attempts at office defenses. I believe that the activism of recent times and the ability to resume a series of diplomatic relations are proving that we are able to resume a strong diplomatic political initiative in a scenario - let me say - that we do not now discover that we are complicated and complex and that it has become even more serious in recent times. As far as the story of Libya is concerned, we cannot remove what happened and the difficulties of our country and the Italian influence in Libya, which derive from the choice that was made to bomb. This is often removed in our debate too, but we must continue to deal with it and we must also say very clearly what has happened. We also had an obsession in our relationship with Libya, which is finally being changed today, because we are now looking at the geopolitical interests of Italy, whereas before - I am thinking, for example, of former Minister Salvini's actions - relations with Libya were dictated solely by the obsession of immigration. This is the fundamental point: the rest was completely neglected and choices were made that certainly did not favor the operation of dialogue between the parties, but that were choices of flattening, only and only by virtue of this blessed obsession. I want to remember everything that has happened, the difficulty and the complexity, because, as Senator Casini said well, we have had and have to do, precisely on the Libyan affair, with a division of Europe - this is the point - and also with a confrontation within Europe, between those who thought they could defend their national interests only with the protagonism of a single country, in the challenge between countries, forgetting that the only possibility to defend the interests of individual countries, for Italy as well as for France, is linked to the fact that Europe can speak with one voice and the facts I believe are proving it. That is why we very much welcome the Berlin Conference and we must not underestimate at all the role Italy has played in convening it. There is the great challenge, both Italian and European, to regain a leading role, to be able to play a role in the Mediterranean and to avoid being completely marginalized, by the attempt that is being made, with the protagonism of Turkey and Russia and by a process of "syrianization" - this is indeed the danger that lies in Libya - to get to the protectorate and partition. What is being produced, as we all know for a long time, is also a proxy war. For this reason, it is right that dialogue should always be pursued and made clear to the various Libyan parties that Libya's interest and the only chance for Libya to have territorial unity and regain sovereignty lies only in a strong dialogue with a European Union that can also speak with a single voice. Libya's interests cannot, in fact, be entrusted to the challenge between Turkey and Russia. I want to say another thing: here again I have heard that the prestige and influence of a country are in fact linked to the choice of the military option - there has been an intervention by Senator Romani on this - as if the prestige of a country can only be exercised in this way. Instead, we fully support the choice of our country and the statements made by Minister Di Maio, on the fact that, as far as we are concerned, the main road is to continuously cultivate not only the diplomatic road, but also the dialogue between the parties. After all that has happened in recent years throughout the Middle East, do we still think that the military option is the only way to stabilize those territories? It was exactly the opposite. I would like to remind you that we have been in Iraq for seventeen years, we have been in Afghanistan for nineteen years, as a Western coalition, and still today the situation has not been completely stabilized, indeed, the destabilisation continues progressively. The choices of military option are also the bloody trail of energy policies, because this is what we are talking about. Today, for a country like Italy and to make sure that we become the driving force behind a resumption of united action in Europe, the main road - I repeat - is to cultivate the possibilities of dialogue between the parties and to succeed with deep action, because there is no other way. I've heard of missions. The only possibilities we have are, of course, those of a peace monitoring mission, but with the consent of the parties, under the auspices of the UN. Multilateralism will also be over, but there is still a principle of international legality and it is the only way for there to be the consensus of the parties involved. This is the road that can give us back prestige and put on the field a force like Italy, because this is the history and tradition of our country. We cannot think that today there are responsibilities for choices that have been absolutely wrong and harmful even for Italian interests. Italian interests in the Mediterranean are protected in this way, with an ability to speak with the various actors and with a capacity - which we hope can be realized at the Berlin Conference - of Europe to regain its own strength and its own protagonism, because I do not believe that in the Mediterranean area it is possible to think that other partners, such as Turkey and Russia, can continue to occupy a space because this is actually contrary to the interests of Europe and our country. On the issue of Iran and Iraq, here too I have heard accusations of pre-pochism and gaffe. Speaking of deep irresponsibility, but we forgot - and I really finish - what did Salvini say after the American raid that killed Soleimani? He even chanted this action. I believe that, since we have the chance (we are the bridge with Iran), we must continue to work for a strong resumption of dialogue and, together with Europe, continue to pursue the idea of keeping the nuclear agreement in place. With regard to the mission to Iraq, let me say Minister, I believe that we should consider how to proceed, because we cannot think that, after others have destabilised, we remain there at the risk of paying all the consequences of the irresponsible destabilisation decisions that others, like the United States, have taken. I thank everyone and especially the government for the work they have done. Let us continue in this way, because I believe that the Berlin Conference will be an important point, with our work and commitment together with the other European partners, in order to be able to offer a chance for the stabilisation of Libya. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u26	Mr President, we, the Brothers of Italy, who are a patriotic force, have not escaped, nor can they escape what you have said here, namely the need to find a unified, cohesive and shared position in our nation's foreign policy, let alone what the President of the Council did last night by convening a table with the opposition forces to face the issue together. However, let us add with equal frankness that a position as significant as that of seeking national convergence at a time of extraordinary importance in which our main national interests are put at risk cannot be reduced to a photo opportunity, as unfortunately appears also to emerge from yesterday's meeting as well as from many other things done in foreign policy - and not only - by the two governments led by President Conte. We cannot reduce foreign policy to a roundabout of meetings or to a roundabout of photo opportunities, let alone we can subordinate it to Casalino's statements, who is in a hurry to make something appear that does not happen: I am referring for example to the faded meeting in Rome, in which President Al-Sarraj preferred not to participate after his presence had been announced. In this field and especially at this time, Italy is the European and Western country that risks most in Libya, the eastern Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf. It risks more because our country's energy routes are threatened: we import energy from Libya (12 percent of oil, 30% of gas) and along the Persian Gulf; we could import energy from the eastern Mediterranean and also along the East-Med and TAP routes, which pass from there. We are an energy importing country, unlike the United States - which now export energy - or Russia or other European countries: it is vital for us to maintain those energy supply routes. We are the country that risks most because we are the southern border of Europe also with regard to potential migration flows and, behind them, the potential terrorist flows. This is so true that - precisely in order to deny that no to every military option - our military are engaged on mandate from the Government and Parliament in all these strategic theatres: they are still engaged in Kosovo and the Balkans - and I quote the Balkans - after a war that we have fought with others to pacify this area; they are engaged in Misrata in the hospital and Tripoli in defense of our embassy; they are engaged as a force of interposition along the Shiite green belt (not by chance Shiite) from Lebanon, along Iraq and Kuwait up to Afghanistan, in Herat, also fortunately dominated by the Shiites who protect our military. We are committed, and therefore we are interested more than others, to stabilise these areas, so it is true that we have sent our military to you with the missions financed and directed by Parliament. There is a question of who threatens our interests; if we do not ask ourselves, then we cannot have a shared posture in Parliament and in the country to protect our interests. At this moment, Minister, it seems to me that the main threat comes from Turkey, and that is not clear yet. So much so that Turkey is taking over both our energy routes and the sources from which migration comes or could come from. Turkey already has the source of emigration in the Balkans, it blackmails Europe and Italy, and it would also like to have the other border of emigration in its hands, namely Libya and Africa. Turkey is a country that needs energy like us, unlike Russia (which does not have these objectives); Turkey that needs our energy, has entered Syria and from there points to Iraq and oil wells. Turkey wants to arrive in Libya, in Tripoli, and then also take our oil wells. Turkey has made such a clear agreement with Libya, to govern the entire eastern Mediterranean, to cut off the routes of the TAP and, possibly, also those of the pipeline that should arrive from Israel, through Gaza and Cyprus, to Italy and Europe. And we have not reacted with sufficient force and clarity since the beginning, when there was an agreement between a Government of Tripoli, supported by us, and the Government of Erdogan. If we do not have this clear, we cannot move with sufficient sharing and shared strategy. Of course we can't help but make it clear that France, even recently, first sabotaged the European mission to Tripoli, which was to go sub-order to Tunis (we all know who sabotaged it), then the eventual European summit and then the passage to Rome of al-Sarraj; if we haven't made it clear that - even if weakened by some mistakes made in the field, which we all know - France is still in the field and contender and if we are not clear as interest that in Libya, without the United States, we are not going anywhere. The Count government had made this clear at the beginning, because I remember the photo opportunity of the beginning of the legislature between Count and Trump, where Count, satisfied, said that America was with us in Libya and we could rest quietly. I remember those statements, as I remember the summit in Palermo and the photo opportunity, that Casalino wanted to make, with Haftar and al-Sarraj, thinking that a photo opportunity was enough, and as I remember the statements those days. In foreign policy, photos, statements, ballet or waltz of meetings are not enough: we need to have clear friends, enemies and national interests. In all the points that you have enucleated us, there is no first point, which we could also share to a large extent, both for Iran and for Libya. At the first point, there is no national interest, what I have enucleated in a few minutes and which could very well expand with other issues: what are our main markets? We were the first partner in Lebanon and Syria, the second partner in Iran and the first trading partner in Libya This will mean something and you could add to everything else. The first point is then to understand what the national interest is. The second is which countries have conflicting interests with us: to identify, that is, friends and opponents. The third is to move according to a shared strategy, not excluding the military option shared with our main partners, all the more so with those of Europe. As far as Libya is concerned, I think the point is here in the end. Without a shared military option, one cannot claim to defuse the Libyan theatre, when there are international and regional actors of that magnitude behind it, who, moreover, have different conflicts and interests among them, to the point that if Russia wants to stop Haftar, Egypt absolutely does not want to. When there is this context, only a shared military action in the European and, if possible, international, perhaps as an extension of the Sophia mission (but it should be a naval, aerial and terrestrial mission, possibly under Italian leadership), can stabilize the situation in Libya, which we need more than anyone else. There, in fact, with national interest, the role of our country in the world is also at stake. The first and also the second Conte Government is responsible for this. When the agreement was reached with China, it was known that we would lose American support in Libya. It's not that it comes from the case. The ambiguity and contradictions of a foreign policy have led us to isolation and thus to this state of affairs, which can only be reversed if there is real awareness of the national interest, the stakes, of which are friends and opponents. Here, yes, you can have our support, because national unity is necessary to recover the lost ground being at stake the destiny of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u27	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u28	Thank you, Minister, for reporting. It is not useful for an important debate such as this to end in positions of internal policy. Indeed, we must all have at heart the contribution that Italy can make in the international scenario and we must all be concerned, because the situation needs it. The Mediterranean, the sea in which Italy is immersed, risks becoming the main epicenter of world insecurity. In the face of this challenge, our words must live up to it. Libya and its stability are a primary interest in Italy. I considered it a mistake, during the so-called Giallorossi Government, to have focused attention on Libya almost exclusively in relation to the migration issue. Of course, there is also this concern (Libya is right in front of our coasts), but we must not forget - you did not do so in your speech, Minister - the risk of terrorism. After the birth of the caliphate they spread to Libya, in particular to Sirte and Derna, important outbreaks of Daesh. The Libyans fought hard and valiantly against these outbreaks, there were many dead and wounded, and precisely as a result of this was born the Italian mission to establish a military hospital in Misrata, because the security conditions led to believe that it was precisely the military that had to handle this need, but it was the need to cure the wounded who had fought against terrorism. As we all know, Libya is also important for Italy for energy issues. When we debated the situation in Libya - we heard it again today in the parliamentary debate - we heard vibrant criticism of the military intervention of 2011, which ended with the elimination of Gaddafi, often forgetting us, however, in the re-enactment, that however at that time Gaddafi was acting in a very cruel way towards his own population. I too, however, certainly have to be critical of that intervention, in particular of the acceleration of Sarkozy's France, which was followed by the international mission. In fact, even in Libya, as happened in Iraq with the war wanted by President Bush, in which Saddam Hussein was then eliminated, there was a particularly devastating element, and that unites these two interventions, that is, a use of force, military intervention, carried out without a strategy for the after; just talk with our military to know that instead it is fundamental, especially when deciding the use of force, to know what the objective is and how to manage the after. Since that date Libya has experienced a condition of instability and lack of prospects and this is certainly a problem for Italy. Foreign policy is a patrimony of a country, I've heard it also in the words of some colleagues of the opposition, and therefore today it risks to be really laughable to play the game of who Italy counts more or with who counts less. Foreign policy needs reliability, coherence and continuity. We Italians were the first to reopen the embassy in Tripoli after the most bloody moment of the Libyan situation, we were the only ones, with an agreement, to have a military mission (the hospital I mentioned earlier). We then signed an agreement with the recognized President al-Sarraj that then became the basis for a European intervention (but at the same time we had opened a conversation with Haftar, but also with the representatives of the Fezzan and the mayors of the municipalities). There had been an action, therefore, and I must say that this action has returned to the present Government. On the other hand, it seems to me that there had been a slowdown in the previous government on all the main issues. So when I hear part of the opposition - particularly the one that was first a majority - complain that we are not counting anything today, it seems reductive and frankly even ridiculous. Let's reclaim a positive cornerstone of Italian parliamentary history: continuity in foreign policy, for the interest of the country. So what do we do today? I agree with the guidelines that the Minister has presented here. Of course, we all work for the ceasefire and we hope it will succeed. Have Russia and Turkey taken on greater leadership? There's no doubt about it. Is that good? From our point of view, I don't think so. However, ascribe to Italy - or only to it - this situation is short-sighted: there has been a disengagement of the United States in the area, particularly during the Trump administration, and this gap should have been filled by a greater protagonism of Europe. I liked the expression of European sovereignism that Mr Casini mentioned today, but let us be honest: not having made choices for a long time to strengthen European foreign defence policy makes it necessary for States to make Europe speak, because without their decisions it cannot act, and there is no doubt that on Libya the European states have not all rowed in the same direction. Without a real understanding between Italy and France, the European voice on Libya is cacophonic. The Berlin Conference can be a very important opportunity to make up for past mistakes. 13.50 p.m. (Following PINOTTI). I have therefore welcomed the Government's moves and I have listened, in agreement with them, to the lines presented here. I think that there must be aid work for Libya on a European level: the reconstruction of a state certainly needs a security framework and, if it can help to monitor the ceasefire, as we did in Lebanon, Italy will not back down and knows how to do it. But this must be included in a project in which we work on the economic, social and civil reconstruction of Libya: it is a longer and less visible part, but it needs more commitment, and it is the one that remains. The Sophia naval mission was born in another context, with important tasks, such as the formation of military capabilities and the security framework (later the arms embargo was also inserted); we try to understand the current needs and remodulate it also by imagining new mechanisms compared to the changed scenarios. I conclude with a suggestion about Iran and Iraq: look, the battle to defeat Daesh was epochal; in 2014, when terrorism became a state, the work done by Italy within the international coalition was very important. We have trained 25% of the Kurdish peshmerga who fought against the terrorism that had taken place. The choice was not to intervene directly but to support the Iraqis so that they could free themselves, and it was a right choice. The final battle to win back Mosul has seen Shiite militias, Iraqi armed forces and Kurds foreordaining attack plans: a small miracle. However, even if terrorism is no longer a state today, the danger has not failed: Daesh is no longer a state, but has not been completely eradicated. Terrorism is a "karst phenomenon," therefore the risk that it may reappear, even in Libya, exists. So let us not forget this objective when we work to cool the crisis. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u29	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, allow me to make one small point: I would like to remind my colleagues Alfieri and Garavini that Salvini was Minister for the Interior, not for Foreign Affairs, in the first Count Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; he has not abandoned Libya at all, therefore: on the contrary, he is a Minister who has done much with and for Libya, to guarantee the security of our country, reducing the deaths at sea. Have we forgotten the patrol boats given to Libya and the training of the Libyan Navy personnel? I'm closing the premise. The Libyan situation is symbolic of the structural weakness of European foreign policy. Libya's political instability is due in the first place to the ambiguity of the European positions of countries that are also close to us, which conceal their economic interests behind their declarations. The line of a foreign policy is manifested by diplomacy, dear Minister, by facts and agreements, and not by words over which our country has relied too many times without then assuming a central position in Europe, as the first interlocutor with Libya. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Without going into the merits of the other global geopolitical scenarios currently underway, on the one hand of the Mediterranean we have chaos in Libya, and on the other hand a Europe fragmented by state interests and not united by the real political will to use diplomacy to reconcile Libya: we often hear about the need to build and shape a European conscience, but then the facts deny the intentions of the Member States. Behind the veil of declarations of practice there are strong national economic interests that are pursued with selfishness and without any concern for the consequences that our country has suffered for a long time. It is on this point that I would like to dwell, because after a year in which the strict control of our borders has led to a drastic reduction of landings and deaths at sea, thanks to the policy of the League, with Matteo Salvini Minister of the Interior, today the return of a policy of opening ports could encourage the arrivals of illegal migrants and potential terrorists, through illegal and dangerous channels, that I define the tunnels of death. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to recall the statements made by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the European Union, who said that fighters from Syria and Sudan were detected. There are 700,000 people who come from sub-Saharan Africa and can be induced to emigrate. To emigrate where, dear colleagues? Italy, Europe, but Italy, first of all. And it is clear and well-known, ladies and gentlemen, that the consequences of Libya's instability fall on Italy, left alone once again, as demonstrated by the failure of the Malta Agreement; yet another example of solidarity in words by Europe. I expect Mr Borrell to be able to take concrete action on Community foreign policy and reverse the course after years of inability to develop a credible and effective Community foreign policy (not to mention national foreign policy). I agree with you, Mr Pinotti, that foreign policy is fundamental, it is one of the pillars of a nation: it is essential to protect it; it is essential to act accordingly to pursue a concrete and credible foreign policy for a nation like Italy. I continue to say that if Europe, dear Minister, is not united, not even this parliamentary majority and the current Government seem to be able to express a unique position on the relationship with Libya and the Memorandum signed in 2017. It is clear that on many issues there is no political unit in Article 95 of the Constitution which the President of the Council is unable to maintain. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There are those who demand the renewal of the Memorandum, who revises it and who still cancels it. Minister, I therefore wonder what the Government's intention is on the Memorandum and the relationship with France, which is central to Libya. There are those who have always lived in arms with the Macron Government and those who met the yellow vests. Above all, we ask for clarity: what is the national foreign policy line? Is there a unity of political direction of the majority on foreign policy? For years we of the League have been asking for the restoration of Italy's image and authority abroad; but this can only happen with a Government that respects the country, that is, that knows how to protect its borders and express an authoritative and consistent line in relations with other countries. Cooperation with Libya and with the Government of al-Sarraj is therefore necessary for the progressive resolution of the Libyan conflict and to counter the trafficking of human beings, ensuring the security of borders for the good of the Italian, European and not only people, as well as to protect our economic importance beyond the Mediterranean. I conclude, Minister, by saying that our country must return to making its first interlocutor with Libya feel in Europe, and be a promoter before the international community of the return of peace in Libya in order to guarantee national security. This Government, Minister - we know - does not have a real and credible political orientation. For the good and love of Italy and the Italian people, Minister, I seriously advise you to leave the seats. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, fellow Senators, the issue of Libya is extremely important for our country, as has been widely said: a country so close to us from which we have much to fear regarding migratory waves (and the arrival of terrorists, taking advantage of them) and in which we have specific interests. I think we should also say this: there are important Italian investments, particularly in the oil and gas sector; it is true, I think we can say that we cannot just think that energy issues should not be mentioned. That is why Libya needs great attention and would need continued action over time. The Government, yourself, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the President-in-Office of the Council have been very active these days, these weeks, but, beyond the specific effectiveness of the initiatives taken these days, we pay a substantial length of years on this issue. It has been said several times, and I would like to reiterate this: Forza Italia strongly believes that a solution in Libya must be supported and has its weight if it is as inclusive as possible. In particular, as members of the European Union, it would be appropriate - it would be of interest to the whole of Europe, not to Italy - to have a European initiative. But there was no European initiative, Minister: you yourself said that Europe has left a free space in which other international actors have arrived. It is true, however, that those who, more than anyone, should have urged the European Union to take an interest in Libya in a pressing and continuous manner should have been the Italian Government (of course, I am not just talking about the current government, which has already been there for four and a half months, but also the previous ones). Those who, if not us, had to press for joint action in Europe. We do not need to agree on every single position. We know that with regard to Libya, for example, France has its own position, but this does not prevent us from proposing mediation, peace and peace, which is certainly of interest not only to Italy but to the whole of Europe. Unfortunately, the last positive long-term strategic actions of Italy that have been effective were those of Silvio Berlusconi with the agreements made with Gaddafi and Libya, which have made Italy and the Italians overcome a reputation certainly not good because, beyond the image of the Italians "with the heart in hand," our colonial past in Libya has seen black pages. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We cannot deny it; we regret to say it, but it is the truth. It was therefore possible to overcome this situation, then, Sarkozy, immediately supported - and perhaps for this very reason - by the President of the United States Obama, decided to do a wretched action that cost tens of thousands of deaths in that country, not in the immediate but for the continuous riots, wars and clashes of all kinds, that have been there in recent years. In this situation - which unfortunately should not have been determined - joint action by Europe is necessary; it is extremely important for Italy. Italy, as I said, should have pressed for Europe's attention. Relations with the European Union, however, have, one way or another, experienced moments of unnecessary confrontation - then we have also seen the results of budgetary obligations - and, for another, taken the form of an extremely condescending attitude because the only thing we were looking for was a certain wide sleeve on our budget deficits, in exchange for which we left the field free in every other sector; all these situations obviously then pay off. A country so close, with so many interests and elements of influence on our nation, cannot be simply left there saying that, as any initiative can be dangerous, we do nothing. It is even more dangerous: inaction in the medium term risks being truly and directly dangerous, for all the issues we have talked about such as investment, instability, unbridled migration and terrorism. That is why it would be necessary and appropriate to have the availability for a military mission as well. It is clear that the solution cannot be purely military. That is also what you said, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to complete the reasoning with what the President of the Military Committee of the European Union, who is an Italian, General Claudio Graziano, who was also Chief of Defence Staff: the solution cannot be military, but cannot be deprived of the military component because, when there are armed forces that are also supported by foreign countries, it is clear that if there is no willingness to be on the territory, of course as a force of peace (for which the European Union would have its credibility), there is the risk that with an active, however intense, there will be no result. Secondly, particularly when there is a military mission and when we have soldiers - we already have them in Libya - in theatres that have problems (otherwise we would not send soldiers), it is very important to give the idea of a united country. Forza Italia has always sought an action as united as possible abroad, as a force of both Government and opposition. It becomes difficult to do so, however, when within the same government forces there is no unity. It is enough to see what happened not farther than this morning; the Minister of Defence Guerini has made himself available to missions - in particular he spoke of Iraq, but it is clear that the same speech can be made for Libya - and a possible NATO mission, since we are among the most important member countries, would mean having Italian soldiers, and then, immediately afterwards, the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Di Stefano not only said otherwise, but also defined what the Minister himself expressed as an adventurism. All this weakens the position, both at diplomatic level, and for a possible presence of Italians, which in some cases is not possible, but is current and current, especially in Iraq and Libya, which we are dealing with today. This is a real problem which makes it even more difficult to have the necessary availability - otherwise it would be necessary - to be present even with military action, because the military component cannot be overlooked in such a situation, which has degenerated for the reasons I have briefly expressed. Minister, as far as the issue of Iran and Iraq is concerned - it has become a sort of Iranian outbuilding - I have listened carefully to your words, in many ways also acceptable, aimed at seeking non-traumatic solutions and so on. Allow me, however, to point out that I have found your attention excessive in never uttering a different word for the two main players of what has happened these days, namely the United States and Iran. I say this with all respect in the first place for the Iranian people, who see so many of their young people courageously protesting against the regime - even this has been omitted by almost everyone - and these are not isolated cases, also because 5,000 or 10,000 young people in Tehran perhaps weigh much more than 600,000 who manifest elsewhere. Rather than receiving encouragement, those 5,000 young people - if they are 5,000, but often many more - are people who risk their lives. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Only in the last two months have 1,500 people been killed by the forces that we would call law enforcement, but that are actually forces of tyranny. They killed 1,500 people and thousands more who went to prison, where they don't get treatment like we do, but they risk and often suffer torture and imprisonment, we don't know how long. So we can't have an attitude of equidistantity. Let us also remember that General Soleimani was in charge not of a brigade or any division, but of a brigade dealing with military operations abroad. Let us remember that there are three types of military operations abroad. There are peace missions, in which - for example - Italy is engaged. But since Iran does not make peace missions, two things remain: war and terrorism. Therefore, he was not a nice general, although certainly intelligent and capable, but he was the leader of a particular force that continues to exist. I conclude by saying that I appreciate that the Minister has said that, in our dialogue with Iran, we must be aware of the differences that exist on certain points. I would have appreciated, however, that he mentioned, among the points in which we disagreed with that country - and "dissense" seems to me a little word - the fact that Iran constantly not only threatens, but also promises to annihilate the State of Israel. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is a state that has been a part of the United Nations since before Italy and in any case such a fact should be avoided, if only on pragmatic issues, because it is a state that, in the case, knows how to react. Therefore, as well as for decency and humanitarian issues and values, remembering that Israel is the only democratic state in that area, all this should also be avoided for questions of opportunity. Dealing with a region is not a good thing, no matter how it is practiced. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u33	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am the last speaker in this very complex and interesting debate. I will only comment on the Libyan question, because my colleague, Mr Ferrara, has already spoken about the Iranian question. Many of my colleagues have spoken on all the points in the scenario that are being foreshadowed in the last few days. I would like to focus on three aspects which will be considered as a reference to the past the first, the present the second and the future the third. The element linked to the past is what several colleagues have already recalled, namely the fact that Libyan chaos is certainly due not to this Government, nor to the previous one, but to a reckless choice of the then Berlusconi Government to participate directly in an intervention that was decided in the UN Security Council - in which Italy does not participate, as we well know - aimed at overthrowing Colonel Gaddafi's regime and to provoke the chaos that we are experiencing these days. I believe that no senator in this House, or even Minister Di Maio, is going to propose a scenario that follows what we have experienced in 2011. Let's go to the present. I believe that the most interesting and innovative element of the present has been the work carried out in concert by the President of the Count Council and the Minister Di Maio, who have brought Italy back to be the protagonist in the Libyan scenario. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrari]] With what element of novelty? Activating mainly with the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean (i.e. Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt) to make them protagonists of a process of dialogue and peace that will not end in Berlin, but will start simply. This is the new element that I and many of my colleagues have found and on which I must acknowledge that the initiative has been taken above all by Minister Di Maio. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The other element of novelty is that the predominant role of Russia and Turkey - as has been mentioned by several colleagues - is seen today flanked by an element of strong protagonism of Egypt and the Emirates. It is news today that most likely Haftar has left Moscow without signing the ceasefire agreements, precisely on the pressure of Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. This is the present, of course, with which we must confront each other. And if Italy, in the wake of the long tradition of foreign and international policy, has decided - I think rightly - as President Conte and Minister Di Maio have indicated, to seek in the most absolute way the political solution to the crisis in Libya, it must be proud to have made this choice and must claim it, continuing on this position from the first day after the Berlin Conference. It is not conceivable that you can sit at a table with a smoking gun, as they are doing, have done and will do other countries; it is not conceivable that in words you want to support the process of dialogue, but that in fact you proceed with the civil war in Libya. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Taricco]] The action of the Italian Government - and I believe that the whole of Parliament must support it - is primarily aimed at the third point, that of the future. We firmly want a European-led mission to be planned under the auspices of the UN and we would prefer with direct Italian control a force of interposition between the two factions in struggle. It is not appropriate for anyone - mainly to us - to divide Libya into two state entities, because from that division would most likely start other self-employed pushes. Libya is a coacervo of several tribes and not only the composition of two entities (Cirenaica and Tripolitania), or even of three including Fezzan. What the Italian Government must claim in all international fora is to reaffirm the line: that of political dialogue and political mediation - and the Italian Parliament must do everything, with its activity of parliamentary diplomacy, to support it - is the only solution of the conflict of a country that is at the gates of Italy. There is absolutely no other way. To have involved - as the Italian Government has done - the main actors of the southern shore of the Mediterranean testifies that we want to pursue this line in the best possible way. Thank you, Minister, for all the work you are doing and I thank your fellow Members for their attention on this issue. The awareness that we must all mature is that there must be no divisions of political groups to bring home the best possible results, namely peace in the Mediterranean basin. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Minuto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u35	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u36	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 2 December 2019, n. 137, introducing urgent measures to ensure the continuity of the service carried out by Alitalia - Società Aerea Italiana S.p.A. and Alitalia Cityliner S.p.A. in extraordinary administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-181.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 16 January, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.21 a.m.
