ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u4	On 8 September, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance; the Interior; Infrastructure and Transport; Education; Health; and for Equal Opportunities and the Family;
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1928, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call Senator Vitali to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it would be worth saying that we are on the same page, despite debates and confrontations held in this House with promises and commitments by the Commission to limit the abuse of the decree of urgency to the greatest possible extent. Above all, with regard to the epidemiological issue with which we have been dealing for several months, instead of asking for and opening a greater confrontation with Parliament, which is the only body entitled to intervene legislatively in these cases, let us return to this House to discuss the usual decree-law. It is a measure that not only extends the state of emergency until 15 October, modifying the resolution of January 2020, but also grants the President of the Council the power to intervene in this period with his decrees, which not only are not put to the attention and scrutiny, not even ex post, of Parliament, but also do not have the constitutional scrutiny of the President of the Republic. They are therefore administrative measures that affect essential freedoms provided for and guaranteed by the Constitution. In our country there is no specific rule that regulates the implementation methods in emerging times. This was a conscious choice, which our constituent legislator has worked to invoke a fair intervention and collaboration between the institutional and constitutional bodies. It therefore seems to us that, behind this decree-law, the abuse of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which, by allowing the President of the Council to restrict and establish restrictions also on movement, affect essential freedoms provided for in the Constitution. It seems to us that this decree-law is nothing more than an escamotage to create an abuse by the Government, at the head of the President-in-Office of the Council. We therefore believe that this task belongs to Parliament and not just to us: there is a broad debate and now a constant case law, including constitutional law, which recalls a reserve of law when essential freedoms and constitutionally protected and guaranteed rights must be limited; only the legislator can intervene to influence this matter. On the other hand, the President-in-Office of the Council continues to do so, who on several occasions expressed his willingness to cooperate with Parliament, even with the opposition forces, and then we saw how these meetings and comparisons ended, only for the sake of the media. In essence, the President-in-Office of the Council has in no way taken into account the indications given by the opposition representatives. Then there is an anomaly in this decree-law, which should be a coacervo of norms regarding the emergency Covid-19 and a temporal extension of the state of emergency: it appears - ex abrupt, would say the Latins - a rule that affects the renewal of the heads of our security services, which has nothing to do with the matter or the urgency provided by the Constitution for the issuing of the decree-law. [[Applause]] Whether it is an exquisitely political and non-emergency problem, linked to the Covid-19 epidemic, shows this a few days ago in the House of Deputies, where a group of Members had, in my opinion, rightly tabled an amendment to delete this rule, which has nothing to do with the decree-law in question. The President of the Council said that the appointment of the directors of the Security Agencies is certainly his prerogative. But, if that is the case, it is not clear why a rule has been introduced which provides for more measures, up to a maximum of four years, modifying the current framework, which provides for a single renewal, only for four years. Thinking wrong is a sin, but sometimes you guess. It seems almost a rule aimed at keeping those responsible for security services under the sword of Damocles and in a rule of law it does not seem to me that this is allowed and admissible, so we vehemently denounce it to the public: at a delicate moment such as this, there is an attempt to condition the extremely delicate and independent activity of the security services. This is also a vulnus present in the decree-law under consideration, for which we ask that we do not pass to the examination of the articles. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u7	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u10	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in my opinion we must work together to resume the normality of the legislative process, compatible with the epidemiological phase that now leads us to a certainly not short period of controlled coexistence with the virus. As Italy Viva we have been among the political forces that have urged information from the Government before defining the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers; this is happening on time and we must restore the centrality of Parliament. I think it is a common situation of suffering for the Government and Parliament to deal with rules quickly, urgently, moving forward for time extensions naturally due to the terrible epidemic. However, this extension of the state of emergency until 15 October is necessary for the still very unstable epidemiological situation. In these days we are experiencing an increase of the contagions and many of the extraordinary interventions of the Government, starting from the more full-bodied ones (from the decree-law care Italy, the decree-law n. 18 of 2020, the so-called I throw again) in order to contain the effects of the epidemic on the collective health and the real economy of the Country that are closely tied, in their presuppositions of effectiveness are closely connected to the declaration of the state of emergency arranged from 31 January to 31 July and that with the measure under consideration extends until 15 October. At the end of the state of emergency the measures adopted with the decree-laws issued so far, such as the issue of masks, recruitment of personnel in the health professions, the solidarity fund for doctors and health workers, the simplification of the meetings of collegial bodies, the smart working for disabled people and I could continue citing the rules that extend in the decree-law under consideration. We all know that the fight against coronavirus cannot be a sprint but a marathon; it is right today to extend the state of emergency, but let's take some time, as a government and Parliament, from here to 15 October to gradually restore a perhaps simplified but normal legislative process, even with the more organic definition of common pandemic plans and protocols, also to give more clarity of interventions to Italian citizens and citizens [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u13	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I am speaking in a personal capacity. At the end of July, the President-in-Office of the Council came to this House to ask for Parliament's support, through a resolution, so that it would be possible for the Government to extend the state of emergency. At that time things probably seemed better, but today we see that there is actually a recurrence of the epidemic. On that occasion, the President-in-Office of the Council asked that all the instruments, means and extraordinary powers to deal with the emergency, provided for limited periods of time, in accordance with Article 24 of the Civil Protection Code and, therefore, the state of emergency authorising the issuing of civil protection orders, should not be lost. Here I would like to make a small distinction with what I have just heard, because the state of emergency does not authorize the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which are acts that are made by the President of the Council and are ordinary, but the use of civil protection orders, which are instead acts that can act as a derogation to any existing provision, obviously in compliance with the general principles of the European Union's legal order and legislation. In view of the deadline of 31 July, the Government then obtained resolutions from the Chamber and Senate that committed it to put as an end to the extension on 15 October. The extension is therefore the necessary precondition for maintaining all the instruments of power that serve to ensure timeliness and effectiveness, which without the extension would have ceased to have effect. There are 38 orders issued, the subsequent implementation procedures, the coordination by civil protection, the same Scientific Technical Committee (CTS), the office of the Special Commissioner. In short, the overall system of protection and allowances which had been difficult in recent months would have been stopped. As a result, the Council of Ministers adopted a decree-law extending until 15 October, as we know, the various decree-laws of 2020; smart working, school building, the recruitment of doctors and pediatricians, the recruitment of residents, drug testing and so on, everything related, relevant and closely linked to the need to deal with the epidemic and its consequences. It is therefore clear that nothing in this respect has to do with the rule introduced, which concerns the extension of State information and security services. As the previous speaker said, there is therefore a real heterogeneity on this occasion which does not allow Parliament to fulfil its role. This rule, which has already been criticized in the other branch of Parliament, is, in my view, a genuine attempt to circumvent the parliamentary function and hence the centrality of Parliament. So then all the legislation, as it is built, leaves me puzzled. I would therefore like to say on a personal note that I shall abstain from the vote because, in fact, here we have the attempt, once again, once again, to bypass the centrality of Parliament and I do not want to endorse that with my vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u16	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, we are talking about the conversion of Decree-Law No 83 of 30 July 2020, which includes urgent measures related to the expiry of the declaration of the state of emergency. I remember that because it is important that every act is not only formally linked to previous acts, but there is also a call for responsibility on this. A preliminary ruling has been submitted, to whose approval, of course, the Democratic Party is opposed, that if it passes, it would lapse the decree that determines the state of emergency with extension until 15 October, with all the consequences that this Senate must be aware of. We believe that the preliminary ruling starts from an incorrect consideration, namely that the extension of the state of emergency planned until 15 October does not present any elements of discontinuity compared to the declaration of the state of emergency adopted on 31 January 2020. So the preliminary ruling says that there is no discontinuity between the acute initial phase of the emergency and the current one. I think there are four reasons why this assumption is wrong, namely that there are no elements of discontinuity between then and today. The first reason is that this is a non-automatic extension and for a limited and well-defined time that will end on 15 October. The second reason is that the Government has previously explained to Parliament the reasons why it considers it useful to extend the resolution of the state of emergency and has, consequently, defined the most appropriate and more cogent deadline in the current situation, the most appropriate modalities and instruments to proceed with. The third reason is that the Government has arranged with primary source, as Parliament has requested, with Decree-Law No 83 of 30 July 2020, the rules on the basis of which to operate, according to specifications and possible needs. Finally, the fourth reason is that the new Decree-Law does not make a general extension of all the deadlines due to expire on 31 July, as provided for in the old declaration of state of emergency, but proceeds on the basis of a careful selection, which has led to the identification of exactly the measures for which it is still necessary to extend the deadline to 15 October 2020. These are the four reasons why we consider the assumption on which the question referred is incorrect. I conclude my speech with two considerations, the first of which is linked to the relationship between the Chambers and the Government, with respect to this act, and the second concerns the terms of restrictiveness and the issue of the limitation of freedoms, which so much entered the Parliamentary debate, which preceded the decree of extension of the state of emergency. In the first case, concerning the relationship between the Government and the Chambers, it must be remembered that the provisions of Article 2 (1) of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 remain firm, according to which the President of the Council of Ministers or a Minister delegated by him must explain in advance to the Chambers the content of the measures to be taken, in order to take into account - as it has been - any addresses from the same formulated and, if this is not possible, for reasons of urgency related to the nature of the measures adopted, however, the Government subsequently reports to the Chambers and therefore has the possibility to report immediately afterwards. I would like to make a final comment on the issue of the restriction of rights: the provisions of Decree-Law No 19 provided for very strong limits, of which we have discussed, restrictions on rights and also on regional autonomy. Now they apply only because they are compatible with the subsequent Decree-Law No. 33, which instead has objectively widened the meshes and this must be recognized. Therefore, after this authentic interpretation, it is clear that the extension does not allow to return to the too narrow limits of Decree-Law No 19, for example for the freedom of assembly or religion and, above all, to generalized lockdowns, nor does it allow the Regions to place limits only in a restrictive sense to national provisions. In other words, it starts from more favourable limits for citizens and the Regions are allowed to derogate in both directions, both in a restrictive and in a more permissive sense. Therefore, in view of all this, I declare the Democratic Party's vote against the proposal for a preliminary ruling, recalling, in relation to many of the assumptions that led several colleagues to support the incorrect extension of the state of emergency, that in recent months we have realized that the epidemiological curve is a phenomenon that must continue to be placed under our close attention, of the Government as well as of Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u19	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the proposal for a preliminary ruling we have put forward is justified by a number of elements, which cannot possibly be put into effect by that sort of blackmail, just made by my colleague in the Democratic Party, saying that, if our proposal were to pass, there would be no opportunity to cure and have a measure that would allow us to deal with the health emergency. Probably, either he ignored what is written in the question referred for a preliminary ruling or he did not know the tools that could be used to deal with the urgency of certain aspects, if necessary. Here it is a question of extending certain aspects of the state of emergency, which contain the same problems as the first declaration of the state of emergency. What were the news and the elements according to which the Government declared the state of emergency for six months and not for four? What elements did the government have? I am not referring to the elements which we have known afterwards and which have been silent on Parliament, as regards the famous report of 13 February. I am referring to the basic elements which should have allowed for the declaration of the state of emergency. The latter should have allowed the Government to acquire the so-called medical devices, so as to guarantee that situation which was not guaranteed, especially for the basic doctors; there was no possibility of supplying those devices. Until the first decree-law was issued on 23 February, nothing was done by the Government in terms of acquisition. Not a statement of the state of emergency! The declaration of the state of emergency means that the next morning we will try to do what is necessary to ensure the possibility of intervention; instead nothing has been done. [[Applause]] And today I am told to make a new extension of the state of emergency? To do what? You want to tell me what was done for school? We're ten days away. I in this House have said, from the outset, that thousands of rooms should have been rented to ensure social distance, in which we believe. But all this has not been done and today we do not need an engineer to tell us that, if the benches become single-seaters, it is clear that more space is needed. In the face of all this, do I need the statement of the state of emergency or the extension of the emergency? Rather, I need skills and the ability to identify instruments, such as decree-laws, in order to intervene on the necessary aspects at the time of urgency. But we do not have this competence; we do not have it and the government does not have it. And there is no relationship of fairness between the Government and Parliament. What do you want to do with this extension? Are we going to extend the system of decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers, which means neither more nor less, nor by Parliament, nor by the President of the Republic, nor by anyone? With what result? With the result that, after weeks, it was sometimes necessary to correct the same decree of the President of the Council of Ministers with a decree-law. In the face of this, Mr President, our question for a preliminary ruling is much more correct, not least in terms of the rules governing the issuing of decree-laws. How can this measure be introduced, under the pretext of the emergency, even the extension of the management of the Services? It is quite insane, both as regards the extension of the executives themselves, and in terms of the use of an emergency decree-law to take such measures. Let us just imagine what would have been said if this had been done by a centre-right government, what would have been said about the interests of a President-in-Office of the Council who wanted to keep secret services good. I do not think of these things and I do not want to use this parameter of judgment, but I just want to be sure that I am in a Parliament seeking to carry out, according to the rules and the Constitution, the necessary interventions for effective protection of citizenship compared to the emergency Covid; an emergency that is not only on paper, but is made up of serious health interventions on the equipment that must be guaranteed by the Government to all citizens so that there is the possibility of overcoming the epidemic, as happened in 1956 with the so-called Asian which - let us all remember - caused 30,000 deaths in Italy, which lasted about two years and which infected millions of people. At that time there was no declaration of state of emergency, nor any restrictive measures of freedom. At that time it was the first Republic and there were politicians up to the task for which it was not necessary to put such measures in place. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u22	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I think that no one in the minority denies that an epidemic is actually taking place and that we absolutely need prudence, common sense and even a little constructive optimism that does not hurt our country. However, this does not justify the fact that we must use an instrument - the state of emergency - which is not provided for in our Constitution while it is so in so many Constitutions of other European countries. Among other things, the idea that the extension of the state of emergency is not absolutely correct, it is useless to hide it, it snakes even among the colleagues of the majority. We have already seen it in the Chamber of Deputies and also in the Senate with attitudes and behaviors that show that a certain annoyance to the fact that the President of the Count Council continues on this path, there is also in the same majority. So, perhaps, it would be appropriate for all of us to think with a minimum of attention about the risks that we run on this road. Remember, in fact, that the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is used by virtue of the state of emergency, is a unilateral act of the President of the Council. There is also no prior control of the President of the Republic. We are talking, that is, really about unilateral decisions that put at risk, or that, in any case, risk severely restricting personal freedoms and what our Constitution provides and guarantees. [[Applause]] This is a dangerous tool. Then, furious to make decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers - I sign, I feel the boss and I decide everything - even the President of the Council Conte has come to feel almost the Head of State, so much so that he has candidate Mattarella to let him in Pope and let him out cardinal. Everyone's figured that out. [[Applause]] So these characters, who until the day before are unknown, although naturally exercising their profession, their role as citizens and their work, suddenly from one day to the next they become President of the Council and even now they have got their heads together and even want to be President of the Republic. Let us be careful: let us all think as politicians because in the future we must avoid the possibility of these things happening again and let us be careful now to limit the powers of those who already feel a character of who knows what size. This is the real danger to our democracy. Even the choice, made precisely with the provision at our examination, on the subject of the secret services clearly created within the majority a rebellion that was then recomposed with the usual phrase - attention, very dangerous - according to which either we do so or we all go home. In fact, if we do not vote for trust we all go home and then, of course, everyone preserves their place. But this is a blackmail that must not exist in democracy. [[Applause]] Already there's an anomaly. I was talking about the President of the Count Council, who also held the delegation of the secret services. This is basically a bit of an anomaly, because the President-in-Office of the Council traditionally assigns this delegation to someone else. He, therefore, head of the Government, also maintains the delegation of the secret services and, even, placing the trust with a norm inserted in this decree on the emergency, ensures that the heads of the secret services, appointed by him, are extended for who knows how long. In this way, if one tomorrow should happen that Count or his Government fall and he is no longer President of the Council (maybe for the formation of another Government), the heads of the secret services will be the same people he appointed. [[Applause]] On this subject, the Copasir highlighted this point very clearly. I would also like to address the President of the Senate who, let us not forget, is the second office of the State. This situation is dangerous, because the secret services, with Copasir and control, are based on a fundamental institutional balance for the security of our country. Balance which has been put at great risk by a measure and a rule, which the President of the Council of Ministers wanted, in a decree on which it was said: either vote like this or we all go home. Do some thinking, colleagues in the majority, because a little discontent is there and certainly some choices are not shared. Be very careful, because this road is very dangerous. You should also bear that in mind, Mr President. I know that you, Mr President, have fought a lot on this issue in a number of speeches which we have heard and which have also appeared at a public level. However, always be an interpreter, with the President of the Republic, so that this cannot happen. An epidemic, in fact, can be dealt with with with the ordinary instruments that the Constitution makes available. We come to the House. We vote, because of course a decree or a provision will be presented. Here we face the nodes and the possible freedoms that we want to restrict, just to try to counter this particular situation of difficulty, that is not living only Italy but that is living all over the world. So, outside of the political controversy, we are very careful, because fear is what, in a few days, comes yet another request for an extension of the state of emergency. Infections rise, the positives are numerous, there is the problem of schools, there is some general confusion in the country and then we continue the state of emergency. We are very careful, because this is not the instrument. Also on various issues such as school, business and the economy, it is the Parliamentary Parliament, it is the legislative power that must address these issues. This is also because, if this is the place where decisions are made, it is much easier for a comparison to take place. If the decisions are made only one, can you explain to me what kind of confrontation can be carried out in this country, on all the various issues and difficulties that exist? Perhaps a political confrontation would help, perhaps even the same majority, to better deal with the issue of this particular situation. Let me say, in fact, to conclude with a purely political assessment, that, rather than the state of emergency, this state would need the state of organization. What's missing in this country is the organization. [[Applause]] To give a clear example, that of the school, we are all here today to discuss whether the benches will arrive or not arrive or who will measure the temperature. No one, however, has explained to us today, to the first influence that will come in October and November, how the situation will be faced, what the child will have to do, what the parents will be able to do, what the class will have to do. There's a risk of paralyzing everything. How is this situation handled? We still don't know. [[Applause]] We know that it is difficult and complicated, nobody has the magic wand, but already now in an organized country there should be guidelines and you should know where you have to go, what you will have to do, how you will move the ATS, ASL or USL, depending on the acronyms in the various regions, and how you will intervene; if there will be the responsible Covid and what will do; whether they will be made fast swabs or fast ones. On serological tests we still do not know whether all teachers will do so or not. You said that 11 million masks will be made available for schools. [[Comments]] For once listen: there are 8 million students; so it means, having to change them every four hours, that it takes a little more than 11 million a day. [[Applause]] Are we sure that we have all the tools we need to produce all the masks we need throughout the fall-winter phase and next year's spring? They're essential goods. Has there been an organizational plan in which we are said to need these essential assets for our country? Do we have the companies that are able to produce them in order not to have problems in having to do supplyings abroad? Are flu vaccines - as I asked last time - ready for everyone? Are we sure we have the stock of shirts, medications and all the necessities? This planning and this organization are there or aren't there? Because it's not the state of emergency. [[Applause]] The state of emergency was on January 31st, but in February or March we were all in a condition in which the organization was needed, but at the time it was justified that it was not there. Objectively, beyond political polemics, if you get a tsunami, it is easy to criticize, but it is difficult to answer. Six months later, however, you can still be organized and this planning serves. Even the majority members say this: I heard Mr Marattin say that it might have been necessary to think about the school five months ago and not in mid-August. [[Applause]] That's what we're asking for. Make a resolution on the state of organization; let alone the emergency, Count and his delusions of greatness that are ruining this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u25	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this question, even if it is not signed by us, because we are even more convinced today, more than already expressed on other occasions, that there is no need to extend the state of emergency, which - let us remember - was voted at a time when instead there was a logic to implement it, on 31 January 2020. It was absolutely justified at that time; one could not do so, but it was justified that the President of the Council should assume the burden and the honour of deciding on his own what urgent measures were to be taken. Today the repetition of this measure stems from a confusion and a deliberate error, that of confusing urgency with an emergency: they are two completely different things. The emergency, as everyone understands and knows, is a photograph of a state of affairs. The emergency cannot be the danger of the emergency, but it must be something in place, as has happened so many times in a disaster: there has never been a state of emergency for fear that a river would flow; when the river exonda, there is the state of emergency. Instead, we are confusing the emergency with the danger of the emergency, because at this moment there is no particular emergency, fortunately, beyond the confusion of the data, that do not tell us who is actually sick and who is only infected; if the asymptomatics are all able to infect; who is able to infect and who is not; how it is possible that an increasing number of infected corresponds to a different number of people taking the test from time to time. Beyond all this, it is quite clear that today the situation of the Covid-19 is different from that of last January: at that time there was an emergency in place, while today there is a situation that can also suggest a future danger of emergency, but that in the state does not justify the suspension of the constitutional rule, that is, that the rules pass through Parliament. What if it's urgent? Our Constitution, which does not explicitly provide - as you know - for a state of emergency, has offered all the instruments to the Government to intervene immediately. The decrees have this function; they have a subsequent control by Parliament, but they can be issued with the sole control - let's call it this - largely constitutional of the President of the Republic. In fact, the state of emergency is an instrument through which a constitutionally protected function of the President of the Republic is removed, which is to verify the urgency of a decree-law. It's a serious fact. They say: but the President did not complain. But we must not abuse. We can and must do so, because the state of emergency - I say it to those who listen to us, to those few who listen to us on television at the moment - does not alter the possibility of intervening, but changes those who intervene. In this way only Conte intervenes, while in the normal way the Government intervenes with the signature of the President of the Republic, but the measure has the same speed, except a subsequent control by the Parliament. We believe that he has abused himself too much of the Covid-19, to fight it for charity: I am completely sure that there is in each member of the Government - look that it is a great opening of credit - the will not to favor the growth of contagion and disease according to their own assessments, which is not said to be right. I give a qualification of serenity and will, of good faith - let us call it that - in the provisions. But this has nothing to do with the fact that, alongside the desire to counter the Covid-19, there has been no side effect of the state of emergency: an increase in the centrality of the President of the Council in terms of communication, consensus and image. So why raise us the doubt that this extension is nothing more than the desire of President Conte to counter the coronavirus, for goodness sake, but to do so by increasing his specific weight and his consent, improving his image and strengthening a political role that, otherwise, as all newspapers and not us say, is strongly shaky within his coalition? Have the courage of President Conte not to use, even in good faith, the coronavirus for an exquisitely political purpose, for a purpose that has nothing to do with the state of emergency, not existing today. We shall vote against the continuation of the examination of the measure, therefore, because we are defending the centrality of Parliament, because we tell all citizens that the emergency has nothing to do with urgency, which can be met with normal instruments. We will vote against, finally, because "canisciun" is fess "," as the Neapolitans say. [[Comments.]] Dear President Conte, we have seen and discovered your cards for a long time! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u26	President La Russa, please don't talk outside the microphone. Talk to me. If you speak out of the microphone, you don't understand anything. When you speak out of the microphone you feel absolutely nothing. [[Comments. Call the president back.]] Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators, referring to the bill n. 1928, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u27	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1169. The working rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u28	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the agreement signed in May 2017 between Italy and Argentina on security cooperation. The agreement, consisting of a preamble and 13 articles, establishes the commitment of the two countries to promote, develop and strengthen cooperation in the field of security in order to prevent and combat crime and terrorism, establishing itself as a legal instrument aimed at regulating police cooperation from a strategic and operational point of view, while at the same time allowing the intensification of relations between their counterparts bodies in the two countries in charge of public order and security. The draft ratification law consists of 4 articles; the economic charges for Italy are estimated by Article 3 in just over 89,000 euros per year from 2020. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law or other international obligations entered into by our country, and takes into account the provisions contained - among others - in the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, in the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1988 and in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime of 2000. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. 10:58 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u29	As you are not included in the general discussion, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u30	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. The Agreement between Italy and Argentina on Security Cooperation, finalized on 8 May 2017 in Buenos Aires, during the State visit of President Mattarella, and already ratified by Argentina in July 2017, constitutes the legal framework to promote and intensify police cooperation between the two countries, in order to prevent and combat transnational organised crime and international terrorism. The Agreement allows to update the regulatory framework in the field of cooperation in the fight against organised crime compared to the previous Agreement signed in Rome in October 1992, which will cease to produce its effects, thus adapting the legislation in the light of the operational developments in this field. This Agreement also testifies to the willingness of the parties to consolidate the intense and excellent relations existing between our two countries which, in addition to the deep historical and cultural ties, are based on substantial bilateral collaborations in the fields of economic, scientific, technological, environmental and university cooperation. Buenos Aires - I want to stress this - has always been a privileged interlocutor for Italy in Latin America, also in the light of the presence in the country of the largest Italian community abroad, as evidenced by the intense exchange of visits and contacts at high level, among which I would like to remind - last - the visit in Italy of President Fernández last January.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u31	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u34	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, first of all I would like to add the full text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Garavini (IV-PSI). I declare the Italian Viva Group's vote in favour of the ratification and implementation of this Agreement, which is an organic legal instrument for organising cooperation on security and the fight against organised crime, including at international level. It aims to achieve efficient and effective bilateral police cooperation and addresses a number of issues, from trafficking to illicit arms trafficking, online cybercrime and child pornography, financial crimes, such as money laundering, and of course illicit drug trafficking. It therefore aims to promote, not only an extremely valuable exchange of information, but also to promote forms of cooperation in the training of police personnel. I would remind you that, as the rapporteur has pointed out, there is still a memorandum of understanding in place in the fight against organised crime which dates back to 1999 and which is being updated with today's ratification. It is therefore an important tool to promote better work and better cooperation between police forces at international level, even more relevant in the light of the spread of various crimes in the field of organised crime and terrorism. I therefore declare, I repeat, my Group's vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u37	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, in view of the wide debate and the deepening of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this ratification measure, as well as the subsequent ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u40	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in order to optimize the time, I also declare the positive opinion and consequently the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group on the measure under discussion, as well as the subsequent draft laws no. 1220 and 1221, while Mr Faggi will speak on draft law No. 1763.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u43	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u46	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I too am voting in favour of this measure by my group. I would like to point out that the Italian Parliament and the Argentine Parliament have met on this subject several times at the initiative of the Iglesias MEP during the Macri Presidency. However, I hope that this habit, Covid permitting, will continue during the Fernández Presidency and will meet on this issue, including involving the Italian National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor. They were very important meetings - I believe that one of them was also attended by President La Russa - and I think that it is fundamental, through this agreement against organised crime and for the coordination of police forces, to work together and consolidate a now centenary relationship between Italy and Argentina. We know how many of our compatriots are there and how good are those in charge of our diplomatic representation, starting with Ambassador Manzo, who do extraordinary work. I believe that today's ratification by the Italian Senate has a high symbolic value to consolidate and put a new brick to the relationship so particular and extraordinary between Argentina and Italy. True, governments pass by and presidents change, but the importance of our bilateral relationship remains. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u47	I personally support your speech, Senator Casini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u50	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I speak very quickly just to make a contribution. I fully agree with what has been said by those who have already spoken in an explanation of vote. It seems to me that the relationship of collaboration between the Italian Police and the Argentine Police is of extraordinary importance. That is why we are voting in favour, especially in relation to the excellent reports that Senator Casini has highlighted. They are cultural historical relations of great proximity with a friendly people and with a friendly government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u51	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1220. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon to examine the Senate Act 1220 of ratification and implementation of the amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. In October 2016, the meeting of the Contracting Parties in Kigali in Rwanda approved the amendment to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, implementing the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, which entered into force on 1 January, on the reduction of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) listed in an annex. These substances are used in particular in the refrigeration and air conditioning sectors which, although not having an impact on the layer of atmospheric ozone, can lead to high global warming potential. More specifically, the amendment that is being ratified today, as well as introducing specific details on the gradual reduction of hydrofluorocarbons, makes clear the commitment to apply to these substances the obligations and requirements introduced under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the related Kyoto Protocol. The ratification of this amendment by Italy, moreover, will not impose additional obligations on central governments and businesses, since the national and European Union legal system already complies with the provisions introduced by that amendment, because the European Union Regulation No 517 of 2014 introduced measures even more restrictive than those provided for in that amendment. With regard to economic charges, the technical report accompanying the specific measure as the Kigali amendment itself does not impose any additional burden. However, our country is called, following the discussion held by the Conference of the Parties held in November 2017, to refinance the appropriate multilateral fund for the implementation of the Montreal Protocol and to adjust the share of its contribution to the fund, currently amounting to 6.63 million euros per year. Article 3 of the Ratification Bill therefore assesses the economic burdens resulting from the implementation of the measure in EUR 2,118 million per year from 2020, which can be attributed - as mentioned above - exclusively to the need to adapt the Italian contribution to the Multilateral Fund for the implementation of the Montreal Protocol. The total contribution due from Italy as part of the financial mechanism provided for by the Fund is in fact EUR 8,751 million per year. It is also pointed out that the text does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with European law or with other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed to approve the draft law by the Assembly [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u54	As you are not included in the general discussion, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u55	Mr President, the completion of the ratification process will enable Italy to be brought into line with the position adopted by most of the countries of the European Union. To date, in addition to Italy, only Spain and Malta among the countries of the European Union have not ratified the amendment that entered into force on 1 January 2019. The ratification in question is also part of our country's international commitment to the international protection of the environment and the fight against climate change. In the European context, in fact, Italy is among the most in favour of ambitious emission reduction targets, we have already exceeded the required results at European level by 2020, guaranteeing opportunities for growth for companies compatible with the protection of the environment. I also stress the urgent need for action against hydrofluorocarbons. The estimates published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) state that, in the absence of global action, these substances (hydrofluorocarbons) could account for between 9% and 19% of global greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Thanks to the control of the production and global consumption of hydrofluorocarbons, established by the Kigali amendment to the Montreal Protocol, it is estimated that further global warming of 0.4 degrees Celsius by 2100, will be avoided, thus representing the single largest contribution to the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement. Last but not least, in the light of Italy's commitment to an ambitious international action to combat climate change, in November 2019 at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), our country hosted the 31st Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, the first meeting of the highest decision-making body of the Protocol since the global entry into force of the Kigali amendment, which took place in January 2019 after the ratification of 20 States Parties. On that occasion, our country ensured its commitment to ratify Kigali's amendment in national law as soon as possible. For this reason, the Government thanks Parliament for launching this important ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u56	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u59	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly because I consider ratification to be important in our examination. As my colleague Mr Airola explained, the Senate today ratified an amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer. I recall that the Protocol entered into force in 1989 as an instrument of the United Nations Environmental Programme and was ratified by 197 countries, including Italy. The purpose of the Protocol is to gradually reduce the consumption and production of substances that alter the ozone layer with calibrated programmes for more or less developed countries. The amendment that we are going to ratify today is going to fill a previous mistake that has led over the years to replace dangerous CFC gases with HFCs, following the adoption of the Montreal Protocol. However, it was subsequently established that HFCs, although not harmful ozone substances, are powerful greenhouse gases that can have an impact on climate change, thousands of times greater than carbon dioxide. So in October 2016, in Kigali, the sixth amendment to the Protocol was approved, which we are about to ratify today. With it, the parties undertook to reduce HFC gas production and consumption by more than 80% over the next thirty years, saving 80 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide by 2050. This is a very impressive reduction in CO2 quantities which, according to expert calculations, will help improve air quality and further protect the ozone layer. The 5 Star Movimento has always supported every measure aimed at reducing the impact of man on the environment in order to preserve the planet and ensure a greener future for the next generations. Today's ratification is in this direction. For this reason I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u62	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in a telegraphic way simply to leave a sign of interest on the part of the Group of the European Forza Italia on the measure to be taken in our examination concerning the ratification of the amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, anticipating that our vote will be in favour. The Protocol is the operational instrument of the United Nations Environmental Programme for the Protection of Air Ozone. Following the decision to refinance the Multilateral Fund for the implementation of the Protocol, Italy will have to increase its annual share with an additional contribution of just over two million euros, with a total amount of 8.7 million euros. For the reasons that have also been set out by my previous colleagues and, as I have pointed out, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u63	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u64	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1221. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u65	Mr President, the draft law before us, to which a small amendment has been tabled, ratifies a great agreement, for the great relationship we have with the Government of Gabon. The Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Agreement between Italy and Gabon on cultural, scientific and technical cooperation, signed in May 2011. It is an Agreement composed of 19 articles, which aims to provide a legal framework for the deepening and discipline of bilateral relations between the two countries, in the fields of education, culture and technology. First of all, the parties' commitment to developing relations between the higher education systems of the two countries in the scientific, technological, literary, cultural, artistic, sporting and information fields, in order to contribute to a better knowledge of their respective cultures and peoples expressing them, in accordance with Article 1. The text is also intended to facilitate, at the same time, the admission on its territory of citizens of the other Party, for purposes of training and study, in accordance with Article 2, and to commit the parties to foster mutual knowledge, through the exchange of notions and to promote the equivalence of diplomas awarded by the two countries. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of five articles. With regard to the economic burdens arising from the implementation of the measure, Article 3 assesses them in little more than EUR 220,000, starting from 2020, to which must be added EUR 14,920 per year, starting from 2022, for mission expenses: so we are voting, in fact, an increase in expenditure of EUR 14,920. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed that the draft law under consideration be approved by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u66	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1763. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u68	Mr President, the adaptation of the February 1984 Agreement on the revision of the Lateran Concordat with regard to spiritual assistance to the Armed Forces - having to amend an agreement, an exchange of letters has been held which we must ratify and execute - is necessary to update the discipline of the spiritual assistance of the Catholic military of the Armed Forces and the status of the military chaplains in the light of the historical, political and regulatory evolution that has been determined in the meantime and, moreover, to make changes to the code of military order. I quote the decisive point, that of updating the legal status of the chaplains as an autonomous figure with respect to the military organization, i.e. the possibility of accessing the military degrees by assimilation and not by integration into the military hierarchy, in order to have a correspondence between the positions of the military degrees and those of the religious responsible for these tasks. With regard to economic burdens, Article 6 lays down a clause of financial invariance; it is pointed out that the reduction of the burden on the State in relation to spiritual assistance to the Armed Forces is one of the main objectives of regulatory intervention. The exchange of letters between the Italian Republic and the Holy See on spiritual assistance does not affect the order of the European Union and does not present incompatibility with national legislation and other international obligations entered into by our country. For this reason, it is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u69	I declare the general discussion open. She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u70	Mr President, within a little bit more of the substance of the measure than the rapporteur and, if you will allow me, I also use my time to make my explanation of vote. The measure under consideration has normative innovations that reflect the changes that have occurred in recent decades in the Catholic Church, especially by the Second Vatican Council and subsequent reforms of a concordat type; they also reflect the changes that have occurred in other contexts in the civil order, with the extension of the right of religious freedom in various areas and, within the Armed Forces, with the suspension of the compulsory lever and the consequent reduction of the military staff, this also in relation to the new functions that the Armed Forces have been called to carry out in Italy and abroad, especially in support of the civil populations in difficult situations and circumstances and, as regards foreign, with international missions of peace. These changes have been highlighted at the time by the Chambers when ratifying the 1984 Concordatory Agreements and have recently been the subject of new attention by Parliament, in order to urge the preparation of the agreement provided for in Article 11 of the Act of ratification of the 1984 Agreement in order to redefine the legal profiles of a new relationship between the chaplains and the military structure and to achieve a significant relief of the State's burden on the spiritual assistance service. In this new historical-political and normative context, the inspirations of the Entente are lowered. Due to the specificity of the functions carried out for religious assistance in the Armed Forces, the organic relationship between the chaplains and the military structures remains firm, especially in order to allow them the full availability of spaces and places within the concrete military organization. The concept of assimilation to hierarchical degrees with respect to the previous discipline has been redefined. [[Brusio]] Ma'am, I'm having a terrible time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u72	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Ma'am, I'm not done. I just said I'm having a hard time talking.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u73	Actually, there isn't much trouble. I would ask colleagues to pay more attention. In the meantime, I was documenting the continuation of the work. I would remind you, given the interruption, that we will proceed with the discussion of the question referred for a preliminary ruling on the next measure. Please, Senator Faggi, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u74	Okay. I conclude and declare that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group agrees and will vote in favour of the measure in our examination. Allow me, however, to make a personal point on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u75	Please, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u76	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, you don't have to take it out on me, for God's sake, but even if it wasn't so bad for you, it was there for me, because at the end of the day, this is a Senate. We are about to vote for a ratification that probably does not interest anyone, an important ratification between two important bodies, the State and the Holy See. It will not matter to anyone, it will not emphasize anyone, but I would like to be able to speak. On the contrary, every time I speak - as is the case with other colleagues - there is a terrible buzz. I'm sorry to have to say this, but I tell you, every time I point it out, you take my word off or you tell me there's no buzz. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u77	Thank you. I'll be more careful. But it's true that you complain more than others about the buzz. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). But I'm not complaining. See? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I assure you, there was no greater disorder than normal. Ask yourself some questions. [[Comments of Senator Faggi]] The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u78	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the importance of ratification by the Government. It has already been said by the rapporteur that, on the occasion of the ceremony for the anniversary of the eighty-ninth anniversary of the Lateran Pacts, the exchange of letters between the then President of the Council Gentiloni and the Vatican Secretary of State, Cardinal Parolin, for spiritual assistance to the Armed Forces was signed. The successful conclusion of the Agreement on the regime of spiritual assistance to the Armed Forces reconciles the element of continuity, constituted by the presence of military chaplains in the Armed Forces, with that of innovation, represented by the changed internal and international scenery. The agreement negotiated by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers will allow the implementation of the provisions of Article 11 of the 1984 Agreement, which provides that spiritual assistance to Catholics in so-called obligatory structures, i.e. barracks, hospitals and prisons, is provided by clergymen appointed by the competent Italian authorities on the designation of the ecclesiastical authority and according to the legal status, the establishment plan and the arrangements established by agreement between the parties. The Entente reaches a point of balance between the Italian objective of rationalising and containing the burdens and the Vatican's will to preserve some prerogatives of the military chaplains. Hence the interest of the Italian Government in completing the ratification process.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u79	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u82	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to point out that I was unable to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u84	You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by the Movimento 5 Star Group. However, I must also say that I will abstain personally from voting. Unfortunately, I have to vote in favour of the Group to which I belong, but I do so solely because of the extension of religious freedom and the integration of ratifications with other confessions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u87	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u90	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will also vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u91	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u94	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I simply wish to express, as President of the Lega Group, a little regret for what happened a short time ago when Senator Faggi spoke. Mr President, this has happened again: the first time we are told that it is a coincidence, the second is a coincidence, but I would not like a third time tomorrow and that a personal matter may arise between you and Senator Faggi. The senator intervened only and exclusively, since there was a bit of buzz in the courtroom, to ask for some attention and respect. For his part we would have expected perhaps a somewhat more institutional attitude. [[Applause]] So let us hope that this, which has already happened in the past, will no longer happen in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u95	Do you really think there might be a personal matter with Senator Faggi? She offends my intelligence. Thank you. [[Comments.]] It offends my little intelligence. [[Comments]] Really? I don't think you're convinced.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u98	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would simply like to draw your attention to the agreement that would have been taken between the groups on how to proceed with our work today, namely to suspend the work of the morning just after the vote on the suspensive issue and the preliminary ruling and resume them at 4 p.m. to complete the examination of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u99	Thank you for your speech. It was already agreed between the groups that, after examining the question of the preliminary ruling on the measure we are about to examine, we would have suspended our work. I must check with the President whether the recovery will be expected at 4 p.m. or, more likely, at 4.30 p.m. We'll let him know in any case before the suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1440, 307, 1022 and 1116. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Parrini, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u101	Mr President, I would simply like to add a brief speech to the report which is before us in order to stress the great importance of the measure in our examination. The measure consists of an amendment to Article 58 of our Constitution that allows us to remove an Italian anomaly on the national requirement to be voters of the Senate, which for a long time the generality of political forces has expressed the intention of wanting to change. It allows us from this point of view to achieve a political result, which also reduces to zero the risk that there may be, due to the diversity of active electorates in the two chambers which have equal powers, majorities which are different in the two branches of our Parliament. I am also obliged to say that, within the time limit for tabling amendments by other Members as well, as rapporteur, I considered it necessary to submit an amendment which is entirely a substitute for Article 1, so that we can approve in this section of Parliament a text equal to that which has been approved in the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. a change to the only historical requirement of the active electorate. I think this is appropriate for a number of reasons: firstly, we have had a suspension of the procedure for this measure of many months because of the Covid and it seems to me significant to give the House an equal text that can be immediately voted on at second reading; secondly, the debate in the Commission also revealed the position of certain political forces of reserve and opposition on the extension of the passive electorate as well. I think it is appropriate from this point of view to open up and create the conditions because in the second and final vote, which the Senate will do - I hope - in three months' time and the House will be able to do in a few weeks' time if we vote on the same text of the House, we can have a very broad consensus of more than two thirds of the members, just as we had in the House on the active electorate alone when it voted on 31 July 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u102	I inform you that a question for a preliminary ruling and a question for suspension have been submitted. He asked Senator De Falco to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u103	Mr President, I am going to present a preliminary question to which Mr Fattori, Mr Di Marzio and Mr Martelli have added their signature. The rapporteur has just spoken of the importance of this reform, which, however - let us say this - is very, very timely. We should try to remember that the constituent Assembly - and thus the rapporteur of the Commission, Mr Ruini - considered the Senate to be the age limit of forty years. I welcome the innovation and amendment that brought the same rapporteur. However, the overall reasoning must be developed on the age limit of both active and passive electorate. The differentiation between the House and the Senate is slowly eroded by these changes that we do not see the point of fall, but that make us understand, both for the timeliness with which they enter during the referendum campaign, and for their characterization, that is, an exchange between politics and institutions, that all this proceeding through a fragmentation and a shred of the reforms is nothing more than an attempt to hide from the Italians and also to Parliament all the reasoning behind it. I am referring to the fact that we want to go slowly, without revealing it as already done in a way that may have been overlooked in the previous bad attempts at reform - I am referring to Renzi's - to overcoming bicameralism. We know that the Constitution allows us to amend the Constitution itself, but it does not allow us to question the overall structure of the State. We can also discuss the equal bicameralism that we have, not perfect, but we must not get to the suppression of bicameralism through surreptitious, cryptic, hidden maneuvers. Well, that the proposers denounce the point of fall of this process would be fair; transparency would impose it; it would also impose a sense of fairness on the institutions and citizens. What else are we seeing here? We are witnessing artificial changes through which the good faith of Parliament and its citizens is basically being undermined. I call on all those who support the 'no' reasons for the cut of Members to consider the possibility of voting on this foreword, otherwise, by hand, we will have not already an equal bicameralism, but a hyperperfect one, from which the finding of the uselessness of a double, then the abolition of a Chamber, will arise. Well, I believe that we cannot allow this and that it cannot be done especially by those who are working hard to ensure that Parliament's cut does not take place. Attention, this is one of the changes that are announced, but soon there will be others, always parcelled. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider the question of the preliminary draft which is being drawn up as follows: a plan in my own way of being ill-constitutional and even unconstitutional, because the architecture of our country, namely that we are an elective parliamentary republic, cannot be called into question, and this is the design that will gradually be realized. You can see it. We can't not see it. 11:54 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u104	He asked Senator Calderoli to intervene to illustrate a suspensive issue. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u105	Mr President, I would like to say at once that the suspensive issue does not want to be a hindrance to the course of the measure. We have voted in favour of the House and we intend to do so in the Senate, as we have already done in the Commission. What I am going to put to the House is a chronological assessment of what we are going to do. The measure was voted in the Chamber in July 2019 and in the Senate on 15 January 2020, i.e. when the confirmation referendum had not yet been held compared to the reduction in the number of parliamentarians. We vote on it in January, it remains parked until today and someone thinks to put it to the vote ten days before the holding of a referendum that will affect very concretely with respect to the number of members of the Senate. If, as I believe, the active electorate brought to eighteen years is a sacrosanct and legitimate right to vote, being first partial compared to those who were not yet twenty-five years old - if an adult vote for the referendum, I do not understand why he should not also vote for the election of the Senate of the Republic - compared to the passive electorate, I think that reasoning about 315 elected members of the Senate, i.e. 200, can pose some problem or at least a reflection on what needs to be done. Does it make sense to decide today, on the basis of a vote that has not yet been expressed? Sounds unreasonable to me. President Romeo had not already proposed not to discuss the measure in this House, but to do so the week after the vote on the referendum. Mr President, forgive me, but this is the first time I've seen a lizard wander around the Senate. I ask Senator Parrini for confirmation: she is small, but she is a lizard; who knows if she has turned 25 or 40 years old? [[Comments.]] Leave it there; in the end, it's the one that hurts the least in here. Mr Parrini (PD). The lizard has been secured. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). We sanitized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's a new one. The question is whether it is a gecko, in which case it would even bring luck. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, Mr President, it's not a gecko, it's a lizard. I ask you to recover your time for this reason. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Absolutely, Mr Calderoli, there is no need to ask. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Turning to my speech, I wonder why this lack of common sense, because - we all know very well - to get the yes (or an alleged yes) to the referendum have started the games or - better - the blackmails of the type I say that I vote yes, provided that it is. We must then approve the basic text of the electoral bill in the House of Deputies, so everyone knows that, once approved, since there is a secret vote in the Assembly on electoral matters, it is reasonable that we will not go anywhere (to my delight). With the majority system, in fact, it is not so true that, in the evening of the vote, we know who won; the problem is that, when one votes, he decides who will go to rule, which is exactly the opposite of what happens with the proportional method that is proposed instead. Others call for an elective base of the Senate no longer regional, but circumscriptional (so that, expanding, you can have the greatest chance to be present), the reduction of the number of the great regional voters for the election of the President of the Republic and then - dulcis in fundo - a revisitation of the bicameralism equal and the confidence or constructive distrust. I've been hearing about this for 30 years. And do you think that, in a time span that sees the election of the President of the Republic in the middle, assuming that this legislature lasts until that point, reforms that in thirty years have never been done? I refer you to common sense and, above all, consistency, with reference to what has happened. I say this first of all to Senator Parrini, rapporteur of the measure and President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The provision transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies, with the forecast of eighteen years as an age for access to the active electorate, has seen the adoption of amendments that have increased the age for access to the passive electorate from forty to twenty-five years. It is interesting to see the signatures of those who introduced them. Apart from that signed by myself and my colleagues in the Commission, Amendment 1.28 carried very illustrious signatures, such as those of Senator Parrini, who is the rapporteur of the measure; Senator De Petris, President of the Misto Group (Liberi and Equal); Senator Faraone (Italy Viva - PSI); Senator Marcucci (PD); Senator Unterberger (Group For the Autonomies) and Senators La Russa and Fazzolari (Brothers of Italy). The only ones who have not signed it and abstained are colleagues from Forza Italia; the amendment was therefore adopted by almost a plebiscite vote. Today we come to this House and there is an amendment by the rapporteur which repeals the same proposal that he made in the Commission. You can always think again, but that applies to the individual senator. In this case, we are talking about those who have received, with the vote of the Commission, the mandate to report to the House as rapporteur on a text which also contains your proposal. In my opinion, something is not right when an amendment appears in this House which repeals what he himself has introduced. I voted - and rarely happens - on the rapporteur's mandate to bring the text we voted in the Commission to the House. I am not telling you not to discuss it, but we must do things with transparency and intellectual honesty and not with the games of the amendment that appeared at the last moment in this House. In fact, everyone knows that if it had not been deposited, the measure would have been postponed until the date to be allocated. Here we are talking about a very short article, but very heavy in terms of content. My proposal, therefore - and I shall vote against the reference made by Senator De Falco - is to return to the Commission and I am willing to work also in the week of suspension of work because of the regional, administrative and referendum elections. At that point, we shall vote in the Commission on the deletion of what is intended to be deleted in the Chamber and then we will come back here on Wednesday 23, showing that voting on something on which we all thought otherwise until six months ago is not just a flag to be put here today, but it is a gesture of dignity, common sense and decency of the institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u106	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will take place in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u109	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, I very much appreciated Mr De Falco's speech because, especially because we are in the electoral campaign for the referendum, the concept must be introduced in this debate that the reduction in the number of Members is a small part of the design that is being drawn up, that is to say, that bicameralism is a problem. Strangely, the bicameralism paritarian, in the form introduced in Italy with the vote of 1948, immediately did not like it, in the sense that before it liked and after no more. The first and bad example of tampering with equal bicameralism was when the duration of the legislature, initially differentiated between the two branches of Parliament, for the Senate was reduced from six to five years, so as to equate it with that of the House. However, the sense of an equal bicameralism - and the great democracies teach it - is to value and not to compress the difference between the two chambers. An example, because it is interesting to make a comparison with other systems, is that of the bicameralism of the United States of America, where the Federal Senate and Congress have almost the same strength, even if in reality the Senate is a little more powerful. The legislature lasts four years for Congress, while for Senate six; moreover, every two years a third of the U.S. Senate is renewed. The consideration that has been made is that it is right and important that there should not be a majority crystallized for the entire duration of the legislature, because the elector must have control, even in the medium term - the famous mid-term elections of Congress - over legislative activity, which is also borrowed in other nations, such as Australia. The other important thing is that the reforms that have affected American bicameralism have gone in the sense of extending and not weakening the strength of this situation. An example is that of the amendment tabled in May 1913, by which the American Senate became elective (before it was not elected by universal suffrage). Italian bicameralism has its strength in the fact that it was built this way for a reason. Why are the senate's active and passive electorates different? Because the Constitutional Assembly had concluded that the Senate should represent a Chamber of Reflection, therefore composed of people on average more mature by age - although obviously we must recognize that the older does not make a greater maturity - also from the electorate's point of view. Not only that: it was also considered to differentiate the electoral system, one on a regional basis and one on a national basis. Every attempt to compress this difference, that is, to make the Senate a photocopy of the House inevitably has a single outlet, that of creating two equal Chambers, in order then to be able to say that one of the two is too much and then to switch to bicameralism differentiated, with only one Chamber holder of the trust relationship, that therefore has the legislative power. It was also said by the rapporteur, who said that it is important to have a homogeneous majority in the House and the Senate. No, it is not. It is important that this is not the case, because the control of the voter occurs when the way in which the two branches of Parliament are elected differs. Even better it would be to have a gap between the moment in which one House is elected and the moment in which the other is elected, always for the famous electoral control. Instead, we are going in the opposite direction. The general design that, little by little, is revealing cannot be carried forward in these terms. Fortunately, this single segment has been introduced into the debate and the rapporteur has said what he has said, because so we can say that the current constitutional reform and those that are coming should be rejected and that we should vote against it. This is because they are all reforms aimed at reducing the power of choice of the elector: I would call them "reforms of mandate" in white. In other words, the idea is that a legislature should be crystallised into the initial electoral will and government legislative activity. In fact, less control of the elector and less differentiation allow for greater power for the Executive, which already has enough of its own. All the other accessories that are of course within the debate (such as constructive mistrust, etc.) are pierced, which are actually only used to try to rebalance what has now been lost, that is, the strength of a bicameralism. What worries me and strikes me is that, within this very House, we do not see this need. I have heard a lot of talk about how to strengthen Parliament's power: good, good, good, but in the end it is not actually done. I have never seen an assigned business, with a series of hearings, in which exactly this principle is placed or there are also representatives of other elective Chambers around the world. It's always self-referential. The United States is an example, but there is also that of the Swiss Federal Parliament, in which it is expected that the minority and the opposition will participate in the government; or the case of Sweden, where, when the government goes under during the examination of a measure in the Chamber, a season of plagues will not open, but simply the parliamentarians take note that that text is not shared and that, consequently, it needs further study. We welcome, therefore, any reform that increases Parliament's power, and we do not want any reform that diminishes it; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the excellent work he has done on this subject. One of the greatest reforms that we could conceive of would be this: to get rid of the idea that the government must necessarily be a monolith that can never be voted down. It is not good for democracy, because in fact it crystallizes a situation for the duration of the legislature. Even the forceful attempt to carry out a legislature until its expiry can make sense only in another kind of order, not in ours, in which it is physiological that, at some point, the parliamentarians are free, since they represent the nation and not a political part. Let us remember this, since I still have time: a Member of Parliament, when he is a candidate, is an expression of a party, but when he is elected, he is an expression of the nation. These concepts have a meaning: it means that the Member must also be able to be free to say no and not be blackmailed by a vote of confidence. In this respect, a reform which we do not talk about is the following: do we want to make a little contingent on the number of votes of confidence, establishing a total of them per year? In this way, like all important instruments, it would center: good wine opens at the right time; good oil is used in moderation; trust also. It is clear that we cannot ask for moderation from those who make full use of the instrument, i.e. the use of trust. As a Parliament, we can (we could) impose it; we simply decide not to do so because, by referring to certain statements that have already been made in this referendum campaign, Members must be monitored: the less there are, the more they can be controlled. If that is the spirit, it is clear that we will never be able to ask Parliament (i.e. ourselves) to control the government, because it is the Executive that is giving us the line. Therefore, by closing the discussion, which is in general, and ending on the subject itself, it is important to maintain all the forms of differentiation that exist between the two rooms and, if possible, increase them, because the strength of the bicameral system is this. We have a jewel, bicameralism equal, and we obviously don't know what to do with it. If we were given a spaceship, we wouldn't be able to fly it, we wouldn't know what to do with it, and the first thing we would think would be to destroy it. No, let's learn the best how it works: this is a logical reasoning, the rest is propaganda [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u112	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I decided to speak after listening to Senator Calderoli's very serious and responsible speech, which this House should share. Mr Calderoli is often regarded as the inventor of reforms and amendments, sometimes even provocative or instrumental: there have been times when he has tabled millions of amendments, putting in trouble the printers, the photocopying machines and even the Senate pen drives, which also had difficulties, although megabytes and gigabytes allow for space. Today, however, Senator Calderoli has made a reasoning of absolute common sense, which a serious Assembly should not fail to share. Beyond the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which the Forza Italia Group is in favour of, but also of the suspensive question posed by Senator Calderoli (then events could be competing or concurrent), and leaving aside procedural and regulatory aspects, we are witnessing a fact on the slopes of a referendum which, in my opinion, deals with a serious issue in a rough manner. In fact, the question not of cutting Members, but of anti-politics and anti-parliamentaryism, has ancient roots and I am not just talking about Italy. In these days the centenary of the Carnarus Charter was celebrated, which was launched in Rijeka by D'Annunzio and Alceste De Ambris (the newspapers talked about it). It was a very innovative and modern constitution, almost provocative, also because D'Annunzio and the protagonists of the Fiumana company knew well to speak more about history, in perspective, than for an immediate need of Government, being that of Rijeka a company that followed the First World War and contested the mutilated victory and therefore the border lands that in the discussions after the war had not followed a certain fate. I quote the Carnarus Charter not only because in the classrooms of Parliament it is good to know the history of the constitutions, of Italy and of Europe, but because one of the promoters of the story was Keller, who was a pilot, an intellectual and a futurist. That said, one might wonder who Keller was: the one who overwhelmed and threw a night vase on Montecitorio. Perhaps someone heard mention of this episode during school studies, then maybe he doesn't know that it was Keller who made that flight on Montecitorio; at the time there were no advanced radars or drones, so you could get over Montecitorio and launch an object; I hope that now the anti-aircraft defense and vigilance have developed and that with modern technologies no one can arrive, but not to launch a night vase, which would be harmless object; Today - who knows - some terrorist could throw a lot more on Parliament, if anything among the applause of most of the people, who would say to throw on it who knows what, maybe contamination viruses. I then retrodated the anti-parliamentary controversy of a hundred years, to the Fiuman enterprise, which made the constitution, yes, but with Keller and D'Annunzio (it was the time when the passages were heroic: they had gone to throw tricolored leaflets over Austria, in the phase of the First World War; they came over Montecitorio to throw away the night vase, to say that Parliament was disgusting (in sign of ridicule). So there's nothing new. To some politicians who think they have discovered the anti-parliamentary controversy, I say that they have discovered absolutely nothing. They certainly did not know many of them of Carnarus Charter, of Rijeka, of the pithal cast on Parliament or of Keller; so at least it remains in the records a memory on the centenary of the Carnarus Charter that all in all is an event that has mobilized intellectuals, writers and constitutionalists, for which conferences are being held in Pescara, the Vittoriale and elsewhere. I also remember that de Vergottini, constitutionalist and professor emeritus of Bologna, has just published a study on the Carnaro Charter. We could retrodate the anti-parliamentaryism even more, because even in the days of ancient Greece or ancient Rome the comedy of Aristophanes or Pluto - who were not constitutionalists, but authors of the time - laughed at the ruling classes, obviously in the modalities of the time. We are all talking about Athenian democracy, but it was still on a narrow circuit. The comedy of ancient Greece and ancient Rome at times laughed at the ruling class and also at politics. At that time there were no parliaments of a certain type, but forms of assembly participation both in classical Greece and even in ancient Rome, which, although certainly in a rather authoritarian condition, had the Senate anyway. The attendance was sometimes also dangerous and for some it was lethal, other than the current one: Julius Caesar participated with harmful consequences in Senate meetings. So I want to say that anti-parliamentaryism and the attack on parliaments and assemblies is very ancient (let's stone them!), so putting the issue at the end of costs and age is ridiculous, dear friends: it costs much more than a minister incapable of 100 Members; it must be said in this House. [[Applause.]] And the incompetent ministers had them all governments, it is not a monopoly: you could ask me who I allude to; to a lot of people. Let's say that the chronicle offers countless ideas, which I don't even need to quote, but also history offers many. We all remember Ministers of Cultural Heritage who were teased in the 1970s and 1980s, because they did not seem the most suitable people for the task; we also remember Ministers of Education challenged (the students have always marched against them: now they cannot do them, because there are anticovid norms and on the "Chinavirus," but the virtual procession is permanent). So anti-politics is nothing, but it has proceeded in a confusing way. So I come to today's point. What is the need now? By 20 and 21 September, when the referendum will take place, we must show that electoral reform has taken place in the House. Since the Senate does not have it on the agenda, it does some stuff (eight, twenty-five or twenty-one years, for the passive and active electorate). As Senator Craxi said before, there are those who say that the Constitution is not touched, and now, at four o'clock in the afternoon, we do it to bits, to show that we have done something. [[Applause.]] It's a joke, a clown and a ridiculous thing, ladies and gentlemen! Then we can abolish the Senate, make the Senate of the Regions, predict eighteen years for the active electorate for the election of the Senate (there are those who want to give it to sixteen). Everything can be done, but seriously, Mr Parrini: I am telling you that you have no particular faults, because you arrived at the Presidency of the 1st Commission the day before yesterday. Senator Calderoli is also right: he is given a mandate to the rapporteur, who then has to correct the mandate, perhaps for political reasons, so where did we send this rapporteur? We don't know: by ramengo, by a few lines. I want to say to the House that this is not serious. I do not go into the matter either, because the 18-year-old electorate for the Senate is certainly right. When the Constitution was made, the Upper House predicted another concept of the Senate, which may have changed. On the passive electorate, my Group has a different view and believes that we should remain on the current parameters. However, the debate on either principle is not scandalous in itself; it is on the eve of a referendum. For the reasons I have said, I do not share and criticize the anti-parliamentaryism of ancient Greece or that of Keller, although I realize that this is an ancient fashion and that Parliament has often deserved sleeping vessels thrown from above. It is not that criticism is always unfounded, but then it is necessary to see what replaces what is being criticized: if Parliaments are replaced by ignorance and incompetence, then, dear friends, I keep Parliament! [[Applause]] I could make examples of ignorance and incompetence, which have always been there, but at this time there is some abuse of ignorance and incompetence: the quantities have changed a little. [[Applause]] So the referendum will see 30% or 40% of the voters vote and do you know who will vote? It will be mainly those who will vote in Veneto, in the Marches and in the other regions called to vote for the regional elections. The seat, in fact, will be given another card and maybe they will wonder as well, saying that they went to the seat to vote Zaia, Giani, Ceccardi or another candidate. They will then find a further card in their hands and, probably, the anti-parliamentary sentiment, from Aristophanes to Keller, in the electorate will win. In fact, if we could all get rid of 900, not just 400, maybe there'd be only one representative in the Chamber of Deputies and one in the Senate. If the problem is the cost, let's leave two, a senator and a congressman: it would cost very little and it would be done sooner. But then we have to ask ourselves where we put concepts such as democracy and the representation of territories. Mr President, I see that I am running out of time. Since we are waiting for the sitting to be suspended until 4 p.m., I would ask you to give me an extra minute, which does not change Parliament's history. As for the most serious thing that the Senate can do today, I believe that the proposal for a full preliminary ruling is also right, but I agree in particular with Senator Calderoli's proposal and the idea of returning to the Commission, so as not to prejudice the issue. I know that there is a double reading to be done, for the approval of the text in conformity between the House and the Senate and the lengthening of the times, but if, as you say, the legislature will last an eternity, until 2023, there is time. However, let us not be funny: as for the fake electoral law before the House of Deputies, everyone knows very well that the text approved will not be that, because the return to proportional representation of a certain type would be a dramatic mistake, which the country and Parliament will not make. The game of age, eighteen years and the active and passive electorate - I want to understand then, outside, who understands it - in order to be able to say that we are changing the Constitution and that we are approving the electoral law before 20 September is a joke: we return to the Commission, for an act of wisdom and dignity of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u115	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, reading the constitutional provisions that are orbiting us these days, I recall the title of a beautiful book by a lawyer no longer among us, Saints Romano: ==References====External links== Paraphrasing him, I would say we could talk about fragments of a reformist legal dictionary, because that is what it is. These days we are in fact in front of a series of interventions, all on the Constitutional Charter: each, if taken separately, has its own ratio, more or less acceptable. You understand, however, that the norms - which, as you know, are interpreted against each other - cannot be left as monads: they influence each other and interfere with each other. Today, in this House, we should vote on a measure designed to align the active electorate of the Senate with that of the Chamber of Deputies and perhaps, if the amendment adopted in the Commission survives, even to lower the age of the eligible senators, thus creating a House very similar to the other branch of Parliament. However, it seems to me that doing all this on the eve of a possible, sensitive and important reform of the Constitutional Charter is premature, because the two measures are subject to obvious interference. Reducing the number of Members of Parliament is by no means merely a technical fact; what may seem like a linear cut conceals something else. Let us not forget the suspicion that the intention of the main legislator of that measure is to arm the legislature, i.e. to reduce parliamentarians only to ensure that it lasts until the end. Of course, a motivation of this kind alone would be enough to make us react as Italians, not as politicians anymore, because in this latter capacity we have already voted and have done so respectful of party disciplines; it would be enough to make us react as Italians and to make us vote no in the urn. However, we also know that the intention of the legislator does not enter into the interpretation of the norm and therefore, if that intention and that interpretation of the spirit of the legislator can have some significance in politics, from the interpretation of the provision it remains out of the question. So what are we looking at? On the eve of a transformation that could give life - forgive me the technical image - to a single Parliament with a single Chamber, composed of 600 members in total and divided into two sections, where one controls the other. I am in favour of bicameralism and I continue to be, because I believe that this country has a serious problem, which is the excess of standardization. But if we want to combine these measures with their outcome, we must also decide (and perhaps it is premature to do so today) which republican form we want, because other issues remain in the background (some marginal issues, such as the abolition of CNEL; others less, such as the role of life senators, which can in practice change the final purpose of the popular will, precisely because they are appointed for life and therefore alien to the logic of gathering from the bottom of social demands). On everything I think we should start thinking about the possibility of recovering the deficit of representativeness, which will be (and I also tell you why), not compensated, in my opinion, by saving costs, finally moving to a federal state. Let us not forget that the latter is the form of state of Germany, which is the locomotive of Europe, and it does so - it seems to me - without giving in to the egoisms and particularisms of the various Länder. So in the background there is a bigger problem: these reforms are soulless, because they have been set up to respond to singular and particularistic instances; they need, even if animated by good intentions, to find a point of unification. Not even moving to a federal republic would be enough, because we all have an even more serious problem and we know it: for some time now we all (we can be ten, one hundred, one thousand or one million, it changes little) are crushed by the decree of urgency. That is our evil: it is with it that this House is being compressed and its work is being degraded. First of all, I would say that perhaps a responsibility rests on the Constitutional Court, which has not properly sanctioned - with much clearer words than it has done, because in reality something has said, it is clear - the abuse of the decree of urgency: necessity and urgency are clear requirements that restrict, on the theoretical profile - alas, not practical - the operational area of the decree-laws. It was necessary to have the courage, without whether or not, but always to judge illegitimately the law of conversion by reason of the dragging of the vice of the converted decree-law, even if not governed by the requirements of necessity and urgency. But beware: I do not want to point the finger at this majority, which is overwhelming the opposition with the decree-laws. I want to give you the honour of arms, that is, I am aware that it is now the system that almost forces us to do so, I know. We need to look out of this House to understand what is going on, because if we continue to rule that the world ends up in this House, we will continue to make mistakes. Social networks have had a profound impact on the functioning of democracies, we know that. [[Applause]] There is a report commissioned by the British Government that questions the consequences of social affairs on democracies. It's not all to waste. The Internet is an extraordinary revolution, equal to the invention of the press. In the aftermath of Gutenberg, he didn't immediately notice what was happening. Within a little over a hundred years the Industrial Revolution that brought us to the Moon began. The modern era actually begins at that moment, with the sharing of knowledge. Now we are faced with the maximum, logarithmic, exponential sharing of knowledge. Such sharing has allowed political parties in the media to impose their ideas on the electorate, it has allowed them to become known, for good and for bad, but it has allowed to give voice to those who might not have been able to have. So there are advantages but, careful, the same tool that gives us advantages then forces us to pursue the daily consent. It is a mechanism that transcends the good will of individuals. Even the best politician, by now, cannot escape this mechanism and then it is up to us to find remedies and tighten the links of the decree of urgency in order to prevent that when you are at the government you can give in to the temptation to make a race towards consensus. That's the real problem. Therefore, I believe that this question deserves to be accepted because dealing with the issue of the active and passive electorate without having an idea of what will happen to the nature and structure of this Parliament is premature. We're waiting for the referendum. Let's see what the Italians' answer will be, in my opinion anything but obvious, and then we try to understand in which direction we want to go. The position of a point on a map is not a route, from that point a route must start but we must decide. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u116	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator De Falco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 53 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question put forward by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u119	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on a point of order on a matter of substance which I consider important. In the afternoon we shall vote on the measure, probably consisting of one article. There is an amendment, which has already been announced in recent days, but which has been confirmed by the President of the Commission, as well as the rapporteur, which is entirely a substitute for that article. Now, our Rules of Procedure provide, quite logically, that, when an amendment is entirely a replacement for an article, that amendment is voted on, there is no longer a vote on the article. This makes sense, because we vote in favour of that article written in this way; if we vote against it there is a contradiction and, in order to avoid this, the Rules of Procedure provide that we do not vote on the article. However, in another article, not joint, but separate, it is said that, when a bill consists of a single article, the vote on the article eliminates the final vote. So if these two forecasts are put together (which I do not think should be done, all the more in the presence of a constitutional bill), a paradox is created, which has already occurred, even if it is a non-constitutional bill. The paradox is that, if someone is against the measure as a whole and there is an amendment entirely replacement, which reduces the scope, which someone legitimately considers negative, of the measure, although these are contrary to the measure, it appears that he voted in favour. If, in fact, he votes in favour of that amendment, which entirely replaces the article, being the only article, although he wishes to vote against that measure, then his vote is ultimately in favour. This really reduces the possibility of expression. The principle of non-contradiction is not at stake here, because one can very well support an amendment and vote on it in relation to the text that exists. The amendment is voted on, not because it is ideal, but because it is better the correct text from that amendment than the original text. Then someone may feel that this amendment is the best solution. I ask the Presidency, since there is also time to do so, to consider whether it should not apply the combined provisions of two different Rules of Procedure, which are separate. In my opinion, moreover, when these two articles were adopted, it was never thought of making the connection between the two. It has already happened last year that our Group was forced to appear as opposed to a measure, which it had strongly wanted and of which it was among the first signatories, because there had been an entirely replacement amendment that had, in our opinion, reduced its quality (of course, others had another opinion). In this way, we have turned out to be opposed to a measure which we had strongly wanted, presented and supported and of which we would have voted for the final text with that correction: better than nothing, but we would have liked another text. We therefore voted against the amendment, but we would have liked to have voted in favour of the measure. Since there is a need to show clearly who is in favour of and who is against the measures taken, even if this takes an extra minute for the vote, even if the amendment is adopted as a replacement (there is more than one, but, when an amendment is tabled by the rapporteur, it is very easy for it to be adopted), I would ask that the final vote be held anyway. And I would ask that everyone should be able to comment on the text that results from the examination of the amendments, on which one can be in favour or can be against, just as one can be in favour or against that amendment because it reduces or increases, as appropriate, the quality of the proposed text. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u122	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr Malan's point is actually an issue that exists. Even with our offices we have dealt with this issue very precisely and we have come to the opposite conclusion, but we agree that it is the Presidency that is responsible for a correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, making us kindly communicate it to all the Groups and to the House when our work is resumed in the afternoon, so that we can settle things in the statements and in the course of the parliamentary debate. We are of course going back to the interpretation of the Presidency and the Offices. Our assessment leads to the conclusion that the amendments should be voted on at the end and that explanations of vote can be made before the vote on the amendments, both ours and the rapporteur's, because that vote is entirely a substitute for the measure itself. We are going back to the Presidency, hoping to know the exact procedure to which we will stick before the resumption or the resumption of our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u123	Given that the matter is of course serious and that we have examined its implications, in the meantime, precisely because of the interpretation given by the Presidency to the question put forward, explanations of vote are anticipated in order to respond to this need. However, I would like to explain the content of the interpretation and the reasons, which convince me even more after having carefully followed the prospect of Senator Malan, where the Senator quoted an example that resolves with a single vote in order not to create a contradiction. It is precisely this, in the sense that we have an entirely replacement amendment, so that there is no acceptable institutional logic that can, even in the abstract, foresee a different vote on a content that is exactly substitute and totally absorbed with respect to the substance of the measure. So, in this case, a different solution would lead to a formalism completely detaching itself from the substance of the decisions of this House, which I do not think is conceivable. We have also looked at this issue in the light of the Rules of Procedure, which makes one exception, among other things, when there is an amendment that has been deleted and does not replace it. Therefore, when there is a very specific exception, it means that it is not possible to envisage others. The Presidency considers that the vote should be unique for this reason. There is an entirely replacement amendment which therefore becomes the measure for which it cannot be envisaged, even in the abstract, the possibility of a different vote, which would have politically intuitable reasons, but which would also undermine the function of the Assembly from an institutional point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u126	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). I am very sorry, Mr President, although I know that the Presidency's decisions are unavoidable, that it has immediately given an assessment without taking into account what I have said. For God's sake, I understand very well, but at this point I am setting an example outside of the abhorrentness: suppose there is a law that says that those who speak badly of the government go to prison for ten years, which is clearly against the Constitution and against freedom. I say of the government, but it can be of any other subject, I do not make it a matter of right, left, majority or opposition. Clearly, it is a hateful thing and against freedom. There is an amendment that says: not ten years, but only a fine of EUR 50,000. It is clear that the fine of 50,000 euros is preferable to prison for ten years for those who freely express their opinion, but with this system it ends that you, who are opposed to both, are forced to vote in favour of the fine of 50,000 euros for those who freely express their opinions for a mechanism made to save time. The principle of contradiction is there; the contradiction is precisely the individual vote: one is forced to vote in favour of a rule that considers wrong, even if very serious, for this mechanism that saves one vote. I would ask you to take this into account, because that is the real thing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u127	Senator Malan, you made an example by paradox, but that would fit very well if there were more amendments and not when there was an amendment and a measure. I fully understand your objection, but I believe that another kind of consideration must prevail, which obviously does not respond to all your objections and which - I acknowledge this - does not exhaust the doubts you raise. But there are situations in which a balance is struck, and a logic that I call institutional in this sense must prevail in balance. As agreed between the groups, I suspend the work until 4 p.m., which will resume with the general discussion on the measure under consideration. (The sitting was suspended at 12.30 p.m. and resumed at 16.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u128	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u129	Mr President, the general debate normally has the characteristic of being followed in a distracted way, but I think that today's debate is very important because today we have a picture, perhaps much more precise than what we... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u130	I would ask colleagues at the entrance to take their seats in the House and avoid huts.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u131	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). I was saying that today we fortunately have the chance to have a more precise picture. The first thing I want to say is that this legislature has begun with the conviction - also on my part and I believe it was a serious mistake - that the sense of the "fight" to the political class, improperly defined chaste, and to all that is institutional representation was what the Italian people wanted. This was a mistake because it was an unvisionary vision and I did not first consider the fact that, on the other hand, there was a very different situation and a very different picture. By accepting, therefore, the presentation of pieces of constitutional bills designed to be put together to completely change the structure of our Constitution, we have shown that we lacked this vision at the beginning of the legislature. We had the little bit about the cut of parliamentarians. Of course, by presenting this little piece, even if submitted to a referendum, it was very difficult for a person to say that he did not want it, at least so it had been studied. Today we have another small piece that actually leads, if the approved text were to be the same as the one approved by the House, to equate Chamber and Senate and paradoxically to achieve the objective that had been fought (I am among those who founded the committees for the no and did with the same a great battle when the previous constitutional referendum was called). There is, moreover, the other 'bubble' in relation to referendums, let us not forget that it should be a kind of panacea on the basis of which we should have some sort of popular democracy but, in fact, we know that this would not be the case and that this kind of result would not be achieved. The legislation that we are analysing today, if it is submitted - as I imagine it will - to referendum, is another question that people will say: Why not? Why don't I have to do an operation like this? Of course, it is much simpler than presenting a draft amendment to the Constitution and we also come from two experiences, namely that of the centre-right, which made a constitutional reform construction, and then the recent one made by Renzi. I have made this rather long premise to say that it is not only wrong to proceed today to the debate on this bill, when there are ten days to the referendum vote, for the consequences it will have, but I think it is profoundly wrong to proceed to a revision of the Constitution in small pieces, as if they were small bits to give to the cat of the house. As they are small, the house cat can swallow them, while if you serve him a lunch on a table set with the appetizer, the first, the second, the dessert and also the fruit, maybe the cat says that, as there is too much stuff, he lets it go. That's the point. Such reasoning has been made, which frightens me today, because I have seen the forces of this Government at work. I've seen them since the beginning of the legislature. The pandemic has had various pros and cons, like all the misfortunes of life, but at least we have opened our eyes to a reality: we have today a Government (if we want to call it Government, because already this word gives the sense of collegiality but in reality we have a group, pass me the term, at the command), which goes ahead to the sound of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and decrees-laws, which are analyzed by a single Chamber, which is helped by task force of unknown and unelected people, which means that this is then the real model with which you want to manage the country. [[Applause]] A country that has certainly previously been annoying; a country that obviously needs to be addressed by a small group of this kind. But that, in my opinion, is not acceptable. The next step, in fact, is to become the shopping center in a globalized world (it is an inaccurate term), which is reorganizing from a geopolitical point of view. In the end, it is a way of putting this country - which of course has some specific features, so it cannot be treated as the last of the countries of the European Union - a leash without even realizing it. Colleagues, we have seen, from March to today, how the months have passed. I was also impressed: all of you will have read today on the "Corriere della Sera" that the Presidents of the Regions of center-right wrote to the Quirinale because the document of February 12 had not been participated by the Government to the Presidents of the Regions. It is the document in which forecasts were made with regard to the risks of the pandemic. You will remember that we had asked for this and we had also held hearings at the Copasir. In this situation choices were made without the predictions being made known, thinking of treating as an ox not only the people, but also those who had roles of nature and institutional character. If that is the philosophy then, if that is the way to go (keep secret information, set up task forces, reduce decision-making centres and take them there), I personally do not agree with this breakup and this way of changing the Constitution. It is a way that reflects the methodology of this Government and the way in which it has dealt with situations: it seems to give satisfaction to the so-called people, while, in reality, it bridles the fundamental and civil freedoms of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u132	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the reform of Article 58 of the Constitution in the area of active electorate. Whenever we are faced with reforms and paths of change, I believe that Parliament should welcome passages of this nature. I believe that this reform has an important meaning because it allows the young generations to participate in the election of the Upper House of our country and because it represents a sign of respect for that part of society that has suffered most in recent years from the economic crisis; I am referring to girls and boys who have objective difficulties in the world of work, who dedicate their time to study, often are children of families who have seen the crisis bite heavily, so they are the same ones who perhaps try to raise the activities of the family; they are girls and boys who volunteer and many participate in the political life of our country. It is therefore right to give such a signal. In our view it is right to have thought about this type of reform already in the past months; we also believe that the path as defined in the amendments of the First Senate Commission, allowing younger generations to be also protagonists as members of the Senate itself, should have been completed; in our opinion, therefore, the forecast of the lowering of the threshold for the passive electorate, allowing a passive electorate equal to the one in force for the Chamber of Deputies, should remain. This issue, in our opinion, also creates problems with regard to our assessment of the reform as a whole, because we believe that just as young generations must be protagonists from the point of view of the possibility of electing the Senate of the Republic, it should all the more be possible for them to be elected to the Senate itself. The completeness of the reform had therefore to go in this direction. I also believe that there is a problem of breaking up constitutional reforms, from this point of view we do not find something new. On the other hand, we had thought, like the center-right in past years, of organic reforms; in this country, in fact, beyond other attempts, there were two organic reforms of the Constitution: in 2006 that of the center-right and in 2016 that of the center-left with the Government led by Matteo Renzi. These reforms have been rejected by the electorate, so there is absolutely no argument from this point of view because voters are always sovereign both when it is good for one political side and it is bad for the other or vice versa. There is no doubt, however, that those were organic proposals that presented a number of possible changes in various areas of the Constitution. Today, thinking of the most recent reform, that of 2016, we cannot talk about breaking up: in that reform there was an organic vision, a revisiting of this House. We may or may not like the idea of setting up the Chamber of Regions, but there was still a plan that required it to become the representative Chamber of the local self-governments. Looking at what has happened in recent months with the epidemiological emergency compared to the remarkable contrasts that arose, for example, between the Central Government and the Regions for the gaps present in the Title of the Constitution that deals with the legislative powers of the Regions compared to that of the State (the so-called concurrent and exclusive legislation), shouts revenge on the fact that it had rejected that revision, which would not have reformed Title V but would have made clarity on the role of this House, which would have been the one in which the role of the Regions and the local self-government would have been predominant and certainly influential also with regard to the parliamentary life and the national government. Therefore, talking about breakup today only increases the regret for throwing that reform into the basket. I also believe that when we evaluate constitutional reforms, we need to get away more often from the person who proposes them. Today, in fact, we tend to evaluate the quality of a constitutional reform always starting from those who propose it (if it is nice or unfriendly, if it enjoys a positive opinion from the public) and we do not go to look, as unfortunately happened also in 2016, at the merit of the reform. This is therefore the most damaging aspect. I believe that an effort should be made to ensure that there was not only an extension of the age thresholds for the active electorate but a completion of the reform, as originally planned; we say this without any doubt, because of consistency with the positions adopted and because, precisely because of the fact that we are observing its partiality, we believe that this reform had to be completed. We are faced with a situation in which, following the referendum on 20 and 21 September which will redesign the composition of Parliament, we will have to put a new issue on how that Parliament, with a reduction of the Members themselves and with the differentiation that remains with regard to the composition, can be efficient in the political proposal and in its work, thus trying to understand how to build an electoral law that allows at the same time representation and efficiency from the point of view of the functioning of the institutions. The citizens certainly ask us to save money, to ensure that Parliament is a virtuous place, but at the same time that it is also a place where we work and produce. I do not know, then, whether, in the end, this fragmentation of the reforms thus conceived will bring an efficient result from the point of view of institutional functioning. This is an issue that we all have to put to ourselves regardless of the vote that we will choose to vote on the reform that we are considering at this sitting of Parliament today. We therefore take advantage of the positivity of the inclusion of young people in the choice of members of this House, given that 2016 has in any case sanctioned the permanence of bicameralism equal, beyond what each of us thinks today, a question that we felt had to be overcome but the electoral choice was that. We must therefore welcome the fact that we extend the thresholds of the active electorate and allow so many young people to choose also the representatives of this House, but at the same time we regret the fact that this is an incomplete reform. It is a pity, however, that in January there was a broad consensus in the Commission to ensure that the passive electorate was changed as well. This is therefore the regret that remains, we are trying to take advantage of the positive aspect, but Parliament will have to work hard to bring Parliament's life into line with the changing mechanisms, such as the reduction of Members. All the changes that will come will eventually have to be more organic because otherwise we risk not producing positive work especially in terms of the results and efficiency of parliamentary life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u134	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u135	Mr President, despite the attempt we have made this morning to postpone the vote at a more appropriate time, it is decided to vote for a constitutional reform, which had been approved in the Commission since January and which, since last July, had been approved by the House, after eight months, just at the last voting session, before a referendum which concerns - as it happens - the Senate and the House. So you try to make a mess, you try to get voters to vote for something other than what they are. As Senator Gasparri said very well this morning, there is also a fake vote on electoral law, without the majority having any idea which law can come out. The reality is that any law can come out, including the one already in force that has already been changed during the vote in parallel with the constitutional reform to reduce the number of Members. Well, today we vote without knowing how many senators will be, but we want to expand the number of people who will be able to vote for the Senate. I would like to explain a few issues: in 1948, contrary to what some others say, the constituent Fathers did not establish a number of deputies and senators lower than the present one... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u136	Excuse me, Senator Malan, colleagues, I can kindly ask you to keep your voice down. I'm having trouble listening to Senator Malan's surgery, so I'm guessing you, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u137	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President. They established, in reality, a number that, in the light of demographic dynamics, moreover also predictable, today would give the result of a Chamber composed of 753 MPs and a Senate composed of 301 senators. Someone wants them to believe that they had actually decided less. Instead, in 1947 - with entry into force in 1948 - they established that there was one Member for every 80,000 inhabitants and one Senator for every 200,000 inhabitants. So in 1948, since inhabitants and voters are different and at the time the age was twenty-one and for the Senate it was voted at twenty-five years, as foreseen in the current Constitution, 26 million voters voted for 237 senators: there were 9.2 senators every million voters. Then in 1963 there was the reform that put a limit on the number of parliamentarians and set it in 630 Members - otherwise, as I said, today there would be 753 - and 315 senators. Thus 31 million voters voted for 315 senators, with a ratio of 10.2 senators per million voters. The Italian population then increased and the age was lowered and consequently the electorate of the Chamber of Deputies increased, but not that of the Senate. So, from 10.2 senators per million entitled, in 1963, we then dropped to 9 in 1976, to 8 in 1983 and in 2018 there were 6.7 senators per million inhabitants. Now, while many of you voted to reduce the number of senators from 315 eligible to 200, without even knowing if this reform will go through, you want to add another 4 million voters, with the two measures reducing the number of senators per million inhabitants to 3.9, that is, just over a third of those established by the Constitution and even just over a third of those established in 1963. Is that the concept of democracy? That is, the less there is, the better? On the other hand, it is testified by distinguished parties: there is a party, the Movimento 5 Stars, which makes its posters and its members, to be spread on social media, defining "parasites" or, at best, "softer" parliamentarians who, according to the Constitution, are the representatives of the people. Can you explain to me how to distinguish the parasite from the useful congressman? If they're the 345 parasites you want to send home, they're all parasites and so you're also parasites. Actually, someone who doesn't deserve the salary is there. [[Applause]] , but the Italian people deserve democracy. To think, therefore, of reducing the number of senators per million inhabitants to less than half, to just over a third, or to the total electoral population, does not seem to me to be a good idea. In addition, as has rightly been pointed out by many, we are heading towards a truly perfect bicameralism. In the meantime, the electoral body is treated equally and an amendment has been adopted in the Commission which also equates the passive electorate. So there is no difference between the two Chambers, in the face of the Italian voters, who have also expressed themselves on the impulse, for example, of the past referendum campaign. The colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars were great in the 2016 referendum campaign, they made a beautiful campaign - we did it together - against the basically monocameral reform of Renzi, Boschi, etc. Now, ladies and gentlemen, go in the direction of monocameralism, because when the active electorate and the passive electorate are equated, we will soon wonder why we should keep two Chambers: let's leave one and then let's take it apart from the remaining faculties. [[Applause]] , since, instead of the draft law, the decrees-laws are approved, even when there is no urgency, and when the real urgency comes, the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which are unconstitutional, are approved! [[Applause]] In the meantime, the Constitution is respected first and then maybe you can change the rules. The first question is answered within the time limits laid down in our Rules of Procedure. I believe that there are few people in this House who know - I myself, who have some experience, I have had to consult the Rules of Procedure again - that the Government should reply to the Rules of Procedure questions within 20 days; not to the questions that it chooses, not to those that are requested, prayed, invoked and threatened. No, everyone. Is the government responding? No. [[Applause]] The previous governments also had serious shortcomings in answering questions; but the previous governments did not make the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers instead of the decree-laws, they did not want to mow Parliament and no ideologists of the parties of the previous governments ever said, as Casaleggio said, that Parliament will have to be overcome and abolished. That worries us. Start answering questions. The President of the Council of Ministers, who is doing one of his interminable press conferences (unfortunately, we cannot follow it and so we do not know what he says to others because we have to go ahead with the examination of the measures), does not tell us something about the famous school benches, which are beautiful: how much have they been paid and by whom have they been bought? [[Applause]] They were bought by ghost companies in Ostia? Now they say no, they say the contract has been canceled. Have they been bought from China, from other loans, from people who make 80 percent ridges? That contract, which then told us that it had been cancelled, involves banks purchased at 247.78 euros. You find them very easy on the Internet; on Amazon, on Alibaba, on Taobao you will find them also at 26 euros each. Let us take the most expensive: we do not want the 26 euro counter, we want the 92.55 euro counter, which is the most expensive one you find. [[Applause]] Do you know what the waste is on two and a half million benches? EUR 360 million, i.e. the equivalent of six years of the supposed savings for the cutting and "amputation" of democracy and democratic representation! [[Applause]] The government then responds to the citizens; to the eighteen-year-olds who will go to those benches perhaps more interested in knowing where they were bought and how much the benches on which they will sit than voting in advance of the Senate. These are the serious things; but unfortunately one fails to do serious things to make commercials. If a serious constitutional reform is to be carried out then, it is done all together; the centre-right majority in 2003-2005 has done so and the majority led by the Democratic Party of Renzi has done so. The Italians said no, with 62 percent, the first time and not with 60 percent, the next time. Now you take only one piece of those reforms, almost identical, thinking that the Italians this time eat it and digest it. It doesn't work that way, because if it works, the imbalance that is created in the institutions then risks arriving in the squares. I prefer then some more discussion and a few lost hours (which is actually not so) more to the Senate to discuss. "Knowing to decide" said someone, perhaps a little wiser than those who make these reforms. Well, to know to decide: it is better to lose a few more hours of discussion than then to have those who do not feel represented, those who feel excluded, those who feel under an authoritarian Government and decide to go down to the squares. We want democratic confrontation to take place peacefully and take place here, but respecting the rules; and the first one that must respect the rules is the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u138	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for listening to me and greeting the representatives of the Government. I have already heard some very interesting and very agreeable things this evening. Indeed, I can only agree with what Senator Modena said earlier, and I can only agree with some of Senator Malan's passages, which point out that this way of proceeding is very unusual. I can only agree with what Senator Calderoli said earlier: the fact that this constitutional bill emerges from memory right now, in the direction of the arrival of a constitutional referendum that affects the same subject, that is, representation, cannot fail to be suspicious. Citizens need to know why, unlike the total bad attempts - on this point they disagree with some - made in the past, for example by the Renzi Government, in this case we are witnessing the positioning of various small pieces seemingly harmless or apparently technical, one after the other, which seem to compose a drawing. We had seen this design and we feared it, Senator Malan, even when we signed for the constitutional referendum. Now this drawing is becoming clear, just as we are clarifying the intention to approve totally or almost totally, as you said well this morning, House and Senate. Well: instead of approving it, we should highlight the differences, also taking into account the fact that in Italy - thank God - the average age of the population and the number of older people, that is, the mature people who have gained experience, increase and we risk taking away their representation in this House. So we are saying that in the face of the increase in the average age of the population we care and remove their representation, to the limit through the dilution of the vote, giving the faculty of voting also to eighteen-year-olds. So we are composing a design that, hand-to-hand, is not already specified as a constitutional revision, but we can rightly fear that it is a constitutional design of conversion. In the end we will find ourselves, as my colleague Elena Fattori said, like the boiled frog who no longer has the strength to shoot to get out of the boiling water. We'll be in a position to understand everything when it's too late. For me it is not acceptable to reduce the age of the passive electorate, but neither is dilution and therefore the lowering of the age of the active electorate acceptable. Some say to be careful because there is no drawing, there is not such a complex drawing ability. Someone else says that we are only dealing with the intention of interfering in the constitutional referendum. Neither is acceptable, nor is it acceptable. Here too we have a duty to abstain. The electoral hearings have been called, we cannot intervene on this matter. This matter had to be properly postponed at least until after. Be careful because we already have another bill relating to territorialization. In essence, the senator no longer has any contact with the territory because if we have circuits that will correspond, at this point, to huge territories, larger than the Region itself, the senator will no longer be connected with the territory, so he will be responsible for the candidacy exclusively to the oligarchic group of the party or the movement. That's the point. Such a situation must not make us feel comfortable. It is worrying because it means that we will no longer have the opportunity to have free senators. We'll have party employees, not even executives, but officials or employees who will make arrangements from the secretariats. And then you will complete an inverse design, at the moment when all of this will show its usefulness. The institution will be debased, but not the Senate but Parliament all. The approval between the House and the Senate, however, is a dangerous passage, very dangerous, even if it is carried out for steps even smaller than those that seemed to have been carried out. It is for this reason that I call on all my colleagues to vote against, decisively and firmly, and also to vote against the constitutional referendum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the age of those who vote runs the risk of being a misleading subject if it is not closely accompanied by the theme of voting training and concrete voting experience, to be done in the concrete contexts in which young people move and live: that they are the contexts of associative life; that they are the contexts of sports life; that they are the contexts of student life. What we need today is not so much the number of people coming to the Senate. The difference will also make the number, but not only the number, but also the quality, the preparation and the competence. I would have liked that the importance of a bill that puts so drastically to the reduction of the age of voters had been accompanied, preceded and in some way hammered, through the diffusion in public opinion and young people, who today appear discreetly disloved of political life, also for this wave of "ancient caste" and anti-politics that overwhelms them. I would have liked this bill to have come along with three acquaintances. Indeed, in high school years, in high school years, there is a direct experience of knowledge of the Constitution. You really do a study of political doctrines. Through the study of history, they know the history of recent years and know how they have arrived, for example, even simply to the republican and democratic structure of our country. I would have liked to have liked, in terms of knowledge, to have reached schools, high school institutions and brought this debate there to raise awareness of the anticipation of the vote. Just as I would have liked that there had been personal, direct experience of what it means to participate in a democratic body; of what it means to be elected; of what it means to win the esteem, appreciation and sympathy of colleagues, to be truly active members of an elected body. On the other hand, this provision does indeed appear to be a lightning strike. I myself asked, among the young people most easily known and reachable if they knew him. Well, I guarantee that the majority of young people, in their classes and contexts, do not even know that today we are taking a decision that increases the power they have in their hands and this increased power, however, they do not know how to spend it and do not know what it represents. They do not know the extent to which the nature of things will change. It is true that they can learn it later, but, once again, this ex post learning will do so on the shoulders of the very quality of democratic life. We all know what was meant by the massive introduction of a number of young representatives in Parliament, who did not know the fundamentals of history, who did not know the fundamentals of politics, who did not even know the fundamentals of associative life. With this I think above all of the Movimento 5 Stars, in which the vast majority of young people, mainly of the young colleagues elected to the House, had been elected according to the language that it is to them: the language of digitalization, of the platform, in the form of like to the choices that had been there. Certainly there had been no experience of democracy, which they had had the opportunity to make during the five years of the last parliamentary term as Members of Parliament and in the last three years as members of the Government, with a promotion that gives the measure of how youth, which is really a very precious asset to which many of us would like to return in part, if not supported by cultural awareness and by the existential experience of what it means the ability to make decisions and predict the consequences, is actually a very unfree choice. Therefore, we are faced with an absolutely lost opportunity, which was the one that should have seen the political passion of young people vibrate in the country, should have seen them in the secretariats of the parties and in the socio-cultural contexts. We would have liked to see them come out in the open to play as passionate people, as very often are young people looking for ideals, who really believe they can change the world, but in fact they are measured by study, work and fatigue. There wasn't any of this. This is a decision that rains from above. It's not a decision that comes from below. It is not a decision invoked by young people, but it is a manipulative decision with which the adult offers more opportunities for young people because he thinks that those young people are more easily traced in certain grooves. It's a big missed opportunity. The second question that I would like to mention in this speech, and indeed perhaps it is the accusation that with greater insistence has come from all the colleagues who have spoken before me is the manipulation that is being done in presenting a complex design, in its singular parts, hoping that the other will not be able to possess that thread of Arianna that gives meaning and meaning to the many fragments. It is as if at this moment - as has been said - we are working, with respect to constitutional reform, in the same sense and contrary to what was done at the time of the Renzi reform. The Renzi reform had a great defect and was a hard bite to swallow, because it was inside everything and more and it was hard to see the unity of the parts. This time the fatigue is exactly in the opposite direction: if that was a hard bone, because too dense and compact of proposals, this is so light and it is such a liquid proposal that its fragments struggle to be glimpsed. Of course, the malice that is easy to see in voting on this bill today, knowing that tomorrow there will be a reduction in the number of parliamentarians and knowing how confused public opinion is with many issues, then putting a further element of confusion, tells us how instead in the mind of those who govern the processes the plan of destabilisation is clear, strong and powerful. It is a plan that says: gentlemen, if you feel like a few 600 Members (400 plus 200), don't worry, they won't have to tire so much, because all the work will be done by the President of the Council together with the close circle of those entitled by his ministers and that's it. We understand that very often Undersecretaries and Ministers, who have only peripherally to deal with the central issue, know nothing; it is not the Council of Ministers that governs, but they are from time to time the two or three Ministers concerned with that matter that intervenes. This is very serious, because I happened to ask some Undersecretaries, some friends, even Vice-Ministers, what they thought of the subject and they did not have the faintest idea that the measure would come to this House and that we would vote for it today. To a question that I was asking, if you want to take it quite for granted, about why we are not bringing, for example, the draft law on rare diseases, which we have been debating for years and for which there is a very strong popular consensus, and instead we are bringing forward this de minimis draft, I was told that they did not even know that it would come to this House today. This means that even the Council of Ministers governs precisely for minimum circles. It is obvious that at that point that tomorrow there are 200 plus 400, that there may be 50 plus 100 or even that there may not be is completely irrelevant, because everyone will only be asked to say yes or no, according to an absolutely dual and digital logic, without any intermediate nuances. There will be a majority who will say yes whatever the thing he thinks and there will be an opposition that will say no whatever the thing he thinks, because by now we are incardinated on this logic that does not allow us to argue a thought and to choose by making distinctions, which we are very sorry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u141	Mr President, I listened very carefully to the reasons of my fellow Members who spoke both this morning and just now. Frankly, however, I did not find the reasons for voting against this measure, which I consider very important, but I am biased because exactly one month after the beginning of this legislature I filed as the first signatory a bill, then supported by several colleagues who today sit both among the PD benches and among those of Italia Viva. The proposal provided exactly and exclusively for the passing of the minimum age for voting for the Senate to eighteen years, in exactly the same way to the House. I have presented it - I mean it in this House - for two different reasons, which were built during the last election campaign. The first, which, among other things, I believe can reassure, in part, Senator Binetti just intervened, was a commitment to my voters and above all to many girls and many boys who repeatedly, in meetings held during the election campaign, asked me to be able to present this bill because it was their requirement and therefore they thought it important to be able to vote also for the Senate of the Republic. I had therefore undertaken with them to present the bill without any guarantee of being able to carry it out (today we are at a fundamental step, but we are still very far from the goal and I will return to this) and therefore I have maintained a commitment to them. I believe that we should keep this commitment together, because it is not just my commitment, but it is an opportunity that we all have, every senator and every senator, without mandate, to respond to a need for representation of boys and girls, especially those most engaged in politics. It is not a fault to be more involved in politics: those who are more attentive and more involved and manifest a need do not have a fault, but perhaps need to be heard more. The second reason comes from one of the most important meetings of my political life, which is that with Professor Luigi Berlinguer. Luigi Berlinguer, reasoning with me after the outcome - as far as I am concerned - of the constitutional referendum of the last legislature, emphasized to me that it was his opinion gained for a long time - I believe it is an authoritative figure, I believe in the principle of authority in the formation of thought - that once decided that the bicameralism of equal standing would become important to put back hand to that inequality and to that profound unevenness in the electoral body that forms the two Chambers and that, among other things, has been accentuated - I say to Senator Malan - with the lowering of the age, because even more are the Italian citizens who are represented in a single Chamber. To give an example - then we will also come to the issue of trust - whenever a measure of any economic nature is adopted, in which an amendment is voted that can be beneficial for one part of the population, perhaps the oldest, and not for the other, it is clear that there is a vulnus in the passage, because those represented in this House have different interests from those represented in the other House, but we vote exactly on the same measure. In fact, no Italian measure can become law if it does not obtain the vote of the two Chambers. This is a vulnus - and it is not the only one - which totally weighs on the younger generations. Our country is a country that, with respect to economic commitments and debt building, with respect to commitments and climate neglect and ecological investments in the future and with respect to representation, takes away from the younger generations. Today we can return a significant piece; indeed, in democracy it is the most important because it is clear that if I regain the opportunity to choose my representatives, then to condition them (including the members of this House) I will probably have some more possibility that this Assembly too will be more attentive, for example, to the issue of debt rather than climate change, with a focus on the ecological future of this Planet, which are also generational themes or where the generational aspect is not irrelevant. Of course, the issue of trust is to be considered because, at a time when both branches of Parliament have to give confidence in the formation of the government, there is no reason for it to be given by uneven electoral audiences. I have listened very carefully - because I esteem them - to Mr De Falco and Mr Martelli and, for example, the difference with the United States of America lies exactly in this: it is true that we vote at two different times, it is true that there is a great disparity between the two Chambers, but there is nothing like a vote of confidence, being the President of the United States elected by another mechanism, not exactly in a direct way, as we always say, but with another mechanism. They are parallel paths because balance and balance are one of the foundations of that democracy. Today we are experiencing a imbalance. These are all important reasons. As a Democratic Party we have always been particularly convinced that, regardless of the outcome of the next referendum, this was an issue on which to put our hand, but the possible positive outcome of the next referendum will, in our view, strengthen the reasons why it was necessary to intervene on these elements. So it is true what several Members have said about the fact that we will necessarily have to deal with a thought made in relation to what will be the new Italian Parliament drawing itself, but in the meantime we are dealing with a very simple and definitely necessary subject. And to this is connected - and this is the last argument - the time factor, which is not irrelevant: it is not when you are in a hurry, because the haste is bad counselor, but it is not irrelevant even when you go at a pace that I will not call slow, but it makes us understand that we cannot reach the goal. We're at a turning point. We are all capable of reckoning, of looking at the clock, and not only the hands of the minutes and the seconds, but also those that are not of the months and the years, and we know that to complete an iter that includes four passages, with certain times between them, perhaps we are in time if today we vote on the same measure that has been passed on to us by the House of Deputies. This is also the choice for which we have gone in the direction of suspending the debate on the passive electorate - in the draft law that I presented in response to those two needs was not there, so I am personally very satisfied - but not only because otherwise any improvements, as is all too often the case, are made in literature but not in politics. In politics we must discuss, but at some point we must also decide and conclude in order to achieve a result. Decisive democracy is the best kind of response to anti-politics because otherwise the citizens, faced with the fact that politics never decides, are convinced even more that politics is useless. Well, I think we must deny this assumption. I mean, I think we're faced with a fairly simple choice. I have to say that I have tried to find a reason - there is only one - that says to try to claim that today there is a different maturity, in Italian citizens, on the possibility of choosing one House than another. It is a sustainable subject which no one has used so far in the debate. If there is no such argument, on all the other raised you can and must work (I am deeply convinced of it), but meanwhile we get this result and give an important message to the girls and boys of this country telling them: participate, because freedom is participation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u142	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u143	Mr President, I have just heard of decisive democracy, in which I have always believed. It must be understood, however, because in the decision-making democracy the decision must be inspired by the principle of knowing and then deliberate. In fact, if you do not know, decision-making democracy can be dangerous. Let us take an example: the cut of Members of Parliament can be dangerous for democracy. President Berlusconi said so. That's why I say it again? No, I say this because it is a danger to democracy, being put back to a possible parliamentary and governmental majority composed of 134 senators and 267 MPs the power to amend the Constitution without any confirmation referendum. You realize that these numbers are the ones that, once the reform on the reduction of the number of Members has passed, will be enough to have a two-thirds majority in the new Parliament. As we all know, such a result is not difficult to achieve. Then what's the reason? I am a lover of our Constitution, of which I am in love not from today, and not like those who say - and have made it a flag - to defend the Constitution and then change it in behavior or laws at every step. The truth is that believing in the Constitution means first of all believing in the overall design contained in it. With these punctual reforms we are going to break the balance of the Constitutional Charter (so no more than punctual reforms!). I could talk about the proposal to change the age in order to access the active electorate, bringing it to eighteen years, reading the pages of the debate in the constituent assembly, in which the hypothesis of taking as reference the age of the election of the Senate was discarded. What did you want with that logic? First of all, the Senate representing a constituency on a regional basis, to which I still firmly believe today. Therefore, I am strongly opposed to what may appear to be the design, to which others have referred, to the elimination of the constituency on a regional basis. That's a mistake. We don't have to have an equal bicameralism. When we voted against the so-called Renzi reform it was not to have an equal bicameralism. We voted to have - yes - a bicameralism (because the reform instead eliminated it), identifying a distinction between the two chambers, but with equal participation in the legislative process. That was the logic and it is also true today. Therefore, this hypothesis cannot be accepted. I have even read that the amendment concerning the passive electorate and the age of twenty-five is now out of date. But has anyone raised the problem that there is another age in the Constitutional Charter that is fixed? I am referring to the 50th anniversary of the election as President of the Republic. When we set up twenty-five years for the senator election, at that age you can become President of the Senate. Now, if it was President Taverna who was 25, I could say that I accept that she should become President of the Republic. ( [[Applause]] ). However, at a time when it was not President Taverna, I must say no, not because I am a woman, but because I am strongly opposed to those who believe that representative democracy can be replaced by direct democracy. The 5 Star Movement for a time supported this idea and I hope that you have abandoned it because it is one of the situations on which we cannot agree, not because we are in love with representative democracy, but because the foundation of democracy is freedom of mandate. I therefore appeal to each of you to vote differently from the party secretariats. If that were the case, we would finally claim Parliament's freedom. It is not possible, however, that even today we will have a specific indication that will be followed by the majority and, at the same time, that indication, when the senators were to be reduced to 200 per obtorto neck, probably will also be respected by those who believe in the freedom of mandate. That is the logic on which we must face up. We cannot only reason as if it were an outcast reform, out of the Constitution or a nonsense. It's about voting for 18-year-olds. Each of us and you, President, when we voted only for the House, we didn't hear a capitis deminutio because we didn't vote for the Senate. We had felt, indeed, the achievement of the twenty-five years as an objective - it is a reasoning that we have all made - and a conquest in order to finally have the ability to participate in the elections of the so-called Upper House. Why do you want to destroy all this? You should have said to keep the four years of difference that were introduced at the time of the Constitution and, at most, you could have predicted 21 years for the election of the Senators of the Republic, but I don't see the difference. What is the reason for this reduction in age? We must try to make a real effort. I too accept my responsibility for not making a specific proposal on what we are going to attribute to the Senate differently than to the House. Of course, I committed myself at the time of the Renzi reform to giving a different composition to this House that could finally differentiate it more from the Chamber of Deputies, but never betraying neither the electorate, which must be direct, of the citizens, who can be elected senators, nor betraying the principle of freedom of mandate, which must characterize any initiative and the continuous and daily action we carry out here. If, by chance, we were succubs of the indications of any party leader, we would fail our task. We would no longer be senators of the Republic because the Senator of the Republic, before making an amendment to the Constitution, does not reason according to the party's instructions. You know better than I do that, when it came to the reduction of Members with other colleagues, I took an initiative to reach the referendum. I took it because I believe in the independence of each of us, which was achieved through the collection of the necessary number of signatures to call the referendum. This is the logic: everything that is needed to guarantee the maximum representativeness of the needs and ideas of Italian citizens is fine, but everything that implies the representation of oligarchies is not good. This, on the other hand, is the logic that we will have: in our country we will have an oligarchy of ten, twenty people who will guarantee, through the organization of the groups and secretariats of the parties, the approval of the political class to personal interests or interests, if you want, of party, which do not correspond to the collective interests, nor to the interests of the entire country; it is the interests of the parties, which is a different thing. That's the logic. I know that this draft law will be passed; but I would ask you to re-read the pages of the minutes of the constituent assembly, because perhaps I have not been able to explain why it is clearly contrary to the interests of citizens to have a representativeness entrusted to "Rousseau" or to any other platform, whether computer-based or even personal. I hope that, regardless of today's vote, there will be a collective reflection on the need for each of us to regain, as the Constitution provides, freedom from the bond of mandate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u144	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to speak on this measure a few hours ago, so there will inevitably be a number of concepts that will be repeated. We are faced with a measure which, in itself, seems desirable, because it gives an answer to a group of people, the youngest, who are now left silent about the formation of the Senate. Let's go back to the roots of our bicameralism. A passage is needed to frame and make sense of the changes we are making. In our bicameral system the two rooms - as we know well, we do not have to explain it among ourselves - have the same functions, but, in reality, they behave like the two eyes of a stereoscopic vision. The logic of the constituent legislator was to give our country two eyes able to read, from a different perspective (you want for the age of the elected, either for the age of voters, or for the formation of colleges, however from a different angle), the same social phenomenon. Together, the bicameral Parliament also has another function, which I believe must be preserved: to control the work of the other House, in order to prevent hasty approvals from introducing into the system of errors (and we know that happens). However, this initial plant, which deserves to some extent to be preserved, has to cope with social changes. The young people of the time of the constituent Assembly are not the same as the young people of the third millennium; I do not mean whether they are better or worse, but certainly they are different. Forgive me for personal notation, but having a thirteen-year-old daughter myself, I have a chance to see live what incredible change is taking place in younger generations. However, for these young people more informed, faster, able to have information on the most disparate topics - except then teach them how to select sources, but it is not an impossible task, it is up to the school and the university - we cannot say that they are mature to elect representatives to the House, but not to elect representatives to the Senate. This measure, however, has another in the background: the cut in the number of Members. Let us not forget that an amendment has been adopted in the Commission - but now someone wants to take it back - which also lowers the age of the passive electorate, thereby making the two Houses completely similar, if not identical. Such an alignment is still fine if the two rooms serve a mutual control; let me say a banality: two eyes are better than one. In addition, this mutual control continues to work well even with the cut in the number of parliamentarians: first they work 400 and then 200 control; first they work 200 and then they control 400. However, our constitutional system is no longer this, it has changed. Constantine Mortati was evoked in these classrooms an infinite number of times, but this happened because he was right when he elaborated the thesis of the distinction between the formal Constitution and the material Constitution. Our Constitution has changed: the two rooms are used as two different ovens and the bread to be baked is from time to time, almost always, the decree-law. This is a paradoxical result if you think about it, because in this way we actually have a single-camera Parliament - this is what we have become, it is already a single-camera Parliament - with Chambers running every other day. The bicameral system has in fact been phagocited by the practices of governments, by the abuse of decree-laws and by the habit of sending such measures, with a refined calculation of the days, so as to leave to the other House only the possibility to read the provision. [[Applause]] Therefore, if the reduction in the age of voters and eligible voters can go well in itself, I have many doubts when this measure is dropped into a system logic, because the rules are never isolated words: they make a system and even more so those of the Constitutional Charter do. Therefore, the cut in the number of Members, who is Godot in the background, changes taste and consistency depending on the political project that we want to achieve. That idea of a monocameral system with alternate plates works, it can only work if we think that the deficit of democracy that there will be in a disguised monocameral system can be recovered by transiting towards a form of federal state; in that case, in fact, the powers of the Regions will become similar to those of the lands and in this way we will find that dialogue between citizen and elected that is fundamental for democracy. We must not forget, in fact, that it is our job to listen to, to receive directions from the territories, to read them in the light of our political orientations and to translate those demands into measures. At the end of this speech, I would like to stress that we are faced with a constitutional framework - not attacking the measure today, but the constitutional framework - absolutely without a plot. Reforms must be carried out on the basis of a plot, respecting the style and approach of our Constitutional Charter. I proudly claim to have opposed the Renzi reform because, while recognizing the presence of a plant, Article 70 was illegible and already only for that article was not to be accepted. From an excess, a reform with a soul, but with a poisoned heart, we have moved to another excess: a simple reform, easy to read, but without soul. We have the responsibility to decide where to send this country and we must decide now because, despite our small and short lives, we make decisions that will affect the fate of our children, our grandchildren and future generations who will be part of Italy, this beautiful country that I love. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u146	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. The Presidency declares, in accordance with Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the amendments 1,100 (limited to the paragraph "Art. Article 1 (1) (c) to (s) ), 1.102 (only in the paragraph "Art. 1 (1) (c) to (s) '), 1.102 (only in the paragraph "Art. 1 (1) (c) to (s) ', 1.102 (only in the paragraph "Art. Amendments 1,118, 1,119, 1,120, 1,121, 1,122, 1,123, 1,124, 1,125, 1,126, 1,127, 1,128, 1,129, 1,130, 1,131 and 1,132. Amendments 1,138, 1,139, 1.0.100, 1.0.101 and Tit.101 are also declared inadmissible under the same provision. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft law under consideration consists of only Article 1, the possible adoption of one of the entirely replacement amendments tabled would preclude all remaining amendments and the final vote would not take place. Therefore, the final explanations of vote will be anticipated. The amendments by Senator Malan and the rapporteur, which I would ask you to explain, are therefore only partially foreclosed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u147	Mr President, I am well aware that inadmissibility is unavoidable and, therefore, I accept - I can only accept - nor comment on the Presidency's statements, but I want to explain why I have tabled the amendments. I believe that a constitutional reform cannot be made one piece at a time and in particular it cannot be done in a disharmonious way. For example, I tabled an amendment, to which Senator Caliendo referred, in which I mentioned the other important age mentioned in the Constitution. I also mentioned the age of the President of the Republic. One cannot proceed one piece at a time: there is the principle of contradiction. We cannot make exclusions, then of course the House is sovereign and will be able to vote against the amendments. That is why I have tabled amendments, which affect the age of membership of both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, as well as to be elected President of the Republic. It is absurd to touch one age and not to take the others into account, but we discuss them again! In this case we are going to ask for the votes on the referendum, not with regard to the specific question, but saying that we will then do other things, we do not know how, we do not know when and if, but in the meantime we urge to vote on this shit that we have done now, because then we will approve who knows what beauty. Let's think of a restaurateur who behaves the same way, in the sense that he says to catch this shit and then the dessert will be a fantastic thing. Then I choose dessert. You don't choose dessert. I have also tabled an amendment for a comprehensive reform of the Constitution, because the measure under consideration is a small piece which, however, makes the Senate similar to the Chamber of Deputies and therefore moves towards monocameralism. At the same time, we have a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament if they win the yes. In this respect, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation - he has time to make referendary propaganda, not answering questions concerning him - said that we must move forward on this road and make the reduction. And, therefore, it is absolutely certain that the Italians will vote in favour. The vote of the Italians should be respected: first the Italians vote and then they say how they voted, especially when they have institutional positions. Secondly, we are going to reduce the power of the citizens, by widening the audience of those who vote and reducing the number of elected. As I said, without going to see 1963, compared to 2018 in the next elections we will go from 6.7 senators every million voters to 3.9. However, 18-year-olds can also pretend to vote. Of course, they can pretend to vote, but they have less power. If we give less power in the senators' elections, we increase power and directly elect the President of the Republic. The two things are related - in my opinion - even if someone may disagree, but the amendments were considered inadmissible, because the Presidency considered that we must remain within the very narrow framework of the reform. Therefore, I am opposed to this reform, and I would also like to have the freedom to vote against it and not in favour of it, because there is an amendment entirely replacing it and as a result we would be forced to vote even the most infamous laws, provided they are the result of an amendment that makes them a little less infamous than an even more infamous text. I wish I had this freedom! [[Applause]] The possibility of voting for the frequent position of the issue of trust is already quite limited, and we now, in practice, also have confidence in the Constitution. I therefore withdraw Amendment No 1,100: being deprived of all the measures which make it a constitutional and presidential reform - in order to understand the one relating to the American system - it no longer makes sense to intervene on those two aspects. As for the other amendments, we will see after the final vote, i.e. the semi-final vote, because what will be treated as a final vote, in fact, if that amendment were rejected, would no longer be the final vote, so we should have a second final vote. It is an indisputable procedure, but I cannot understand it, certainly for my own limit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u148	Mr President, in this respect - and only on this point, to be honest - I agree with what I have just heard from Senator Malan. In fact, I have tabled amendments concerning both the active and the passive electorate. Therefore, the fact that one party may be considered to be foreclosed does not exclude that the other party may be taken into account. And, again, the part of my amendments concerning the passive electorate actually goes completely opposite and, therefore, is not precluded by Senator Parrini's amendment, because it raises the age to 41, to 42, etc. In the end, we do not have the possibility of a foreclosure here: I make a different offer with my amendment, which I would like to consider by my fellow senators. I respect the decisions of the Presidency, of course, and that is all we need. However, I would point out that, in this case, I do not think we can talk about foreclosure, because it is not something contained in the Parrini amendment, on the contrary; it is another offer, another idea; it is a strengthening of the difference between the House and the Senate, in the sign that I mentioned earlier in my previous speech. I would like it to be clear - as Senator Malan also said - that we must not go towards a type approval of the House and the Senate and, in order to do this, my amendment tends to highlight the differences in composition and then also the territorial difference, when the other piece of this design that is being composed comes into question. In the meantime, if I may, I would like to highlight my proposal to raise the active and passive electorate at the same time. Part of my amendments also concerned raising the age of the President of the Republic. I respond to what Mr Malan said earlier: these amendments have probably been considered inadmissible, because they are not relevant and relevant to the specific situation. However, at least as far as the active and passive electorate is concerned and the various ways in which this can be done, I sincerely believe that these amendments should not be precluded by the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u149	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u152	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Sooner or later we will have to check the consistency of the groups and the regularity of the order of intervention, but this is not a matter that we can deal with here. Mr President, if I understand correctly - and I also ask Vice-President Calderoli - the adoption of Amendment 1,101 precludes the other amendments and makes a final vote unnecessary. That's what we've been told. It is certainly based on the precedents, but it deprives the senators of the possibility - for example - of not agreeing with that amendment and then, once the amendment has been approved despite the contrary vote of a group, to accept the reductive hypothesis anyway and not to completely weaken the plan to change at least the active electorate. The assumption that a senator is opposed to reducing only the passive or active electorate and then, after voting, decides to accept the result that the Senate wanted is precluded by this decision. I therefore call for a re-evaluation of the possibility of making two separate votes: first of all, the vote on the amendment and then, at the end of the vote, even if the amendment was adopted, there is the possibility that those who voted against will still be able to accept the final vote, as decided by the Senate. Otherwise there is a vulnus for the possibility of speaking by a senator or a parliamentary group. I make this hypothesis because, while it has a meaning, the idea of starting a path, which we have imagined for a long time, of modifying both the active and the passive electorate - it may be pleasing or not, but it is a path - seems to us wrong to change only the active electorate. And above all I agree with Senator Malan's penultimate intervention, because we feel like we are continuing to go on with bits and bits. The Constitution cannot be changed and reformed in this way: one day we will change the number of Members, one day the number of Senators, now we will change the active electorate, another time we will see what we do with the passive electorate. It is unacceptable to imagine at the same time a reform of the senators for life. I do not understand why it is inadmissible, but it is and will have its good technical reasons for proclaiming such inadmissibility. To speak of the President's Republic - I say this, because perhaps we can vote against it - is not possible; to change other important points of the Constitution is not possible. So, we only have to go through with demagogy. By approaching the electoral rounds, it is decided that it is better to speed up the electoral law than a constitutional reform, rather than the modification of a part of the electorate active or passive. This way of dealing with the necessary profound change in our Constitution dismays us. [[Applause]] The Constitution is a serious matter. It's not a drink salesman's game. It is not a game for those who have to imagine every day something to throw at the electorate. [[Applause]] It is not only the reflection of superficiality - I do not mean ignorance - which is imagined to be borne by the electoral body. It is therefore difficult to comment on this amendment. If the approach is not changed, in the face of so much confusion, in the face of so much improvisation, in the face of so much demagogy, the Brothers of Italy Group, which does not want to leave the Chamber, will abstain completely from voting in protest on such a way of dealing with the change of the Constitution. [[Applause.]] (17.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u155	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a political leader should always check whether the young people follow him. It is a phrase of the American politician Bernard Baruch, an exhortation that we, like Italy Viva, feel we share in full and submit to this House as an invitation not to turn our backs on the younger generations. We cannot fill our mouths on the new generations only when it comes to talking in general terms and then, instead, when it comes to involving them concretely in the management of the public thing and in the decisions of the country, they become negligible and we do not take care of them or take them out, exactly as it is happening today in the course of the discussion of the bill on the agenda. The young Italians do not deserve to be treated like the eternal enfant prodigy waiting for their moment to arrive without this moment ever coming, also because they present the account, rightly. The effect of such an attitude is the disaffection of the new generations, it is anti-politics, it is anger caused by the emptiness of perspectives. And in fact, more and more young people react by leaving our country. They take a low cost flight and look elsewhere for the opportunities that our country continues to preclude them. So, who loses time in continuing to neglect young people is the whole country. The consequence is that hemorrhage of brains, hearts, arms, which has now become so relevant as to be a plague for the country; a hemorrhage that originates precisely in that mentality, all Italian, which is the same at the basis of the excerpt of today's articulated; a mentality according to which for young people there is no time: now the priorities are others and it is not time to take care of them. In this same logic, Parliament, in the face of this hemorrhaging of human resources, also lowers the age of the active electorate, but not that of eligibility, and therefore of the passive electorate. It's like telling young people: it's okay. I extend the audience of voters, so that you can vote for me, who am bigger and more experienced. But you stay quiet, you can't run, you stay in your place. In short, a fair and good injustice to the detriment of the younger generations, even more so when we consider that we are lowering the number of parliamentarians. There will already be 600 people voting in Parliament. Of these, at least 200 following today's excerpt will be over forty, well a third. In addition, all the over forty Members are added to the House of Deputies: therefore, a very high percentage. What message, then, do we send to the younger generations in this way? Disattention, disinterest, indifference. That is why, as Italy Viva, we refuse to send such a message, because we are and want to be on the side of the younger generations. Instead, here we make a choice against young people. We want to lower the age of those who vote, but not of those who can be voted on: but what is the point? It is absurd not to want to change the passive electorate when we go to change the active electorate. Aging Parliament, rejuvenating it, means not only lowering the age of voters to eighteen, but also allowing the 25-year-olds to enter the Senate. That is why, with regard to the fact that the Presidency has decided on the option that the amendment will be voted on and, therefore, will result as a final amendment to the measure, I make my own remarks to my minority colleagues, who once again made the request to the Presidency, which I think is legitimate, to carefully consider whether to proceed to a single vote or two votes, so as to enable us to express a separate opinion in any case with respect to the replacement amendment or with respect to the whole amendment. The same Group of Italy Viva raised the question. Just to express our dissent and, at the same time, not to vote against the whole reform, I declare our intention not to participate in the vote. Therefore, with regard to our opposition to the content and the division of age from the passive electorate, we express our dissent by not participating in the vote. We believe that President Parini's amendment, removing the part on the lowering of age for the passive electorate, precludes the possibility of renewing the parliamentary ruling class of our country. As I said, we do not share this excerpt, because it is useless to repeat constantly that it is time to reform the country, when the first engine of renewal par excellence, that is, young people, is not considered and who knows when there will be this further passage, this further, small, broken reform. Everything is in the making, in fact, everything is to be verified. Among other things, I would like to address my colleagues in the majority to note that this decision contravenes those majority agreements on the constitutional reform package that had been agreed at the time. Mr President, in conclusion, we, like Italy Viva, want to make Italy a fairer country, even from a generational point of view. All too often, in the demonstrations, whether of students, researchers or precarious young people, a sign is displayed with the slogan: "It is not a country for young people". And unfortunately this slogan is likely to be true. It is a slogan that expresses, in all its drama, the frustration and the sense of abandonment that so many young brilliant resources of our country try to see themselves always relegated behind the scenes. That is why, as Italy Viva, we believe that it is our job and this Assembly to ensure that young people have the place that they also have on the stage of public life, in order to guarantee them the right to change the country and to take part in the management of the state to improve it. We want those cartels to be overcome and we can finally say that this is a country for young people and a country for young people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u158	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we must not turn the debate on changing the active electorate, and therefore Article 58 of the Constitution, into a debate and a challenge between generations. I say this very quietly. I believe, however, that we cannot use the rhetoric of young people, who would deserve overall attention on the major issues involving a generation that is increasingly in danger of not having a future - it is the most urgent problems of young people - in a challenge between generations. I am saying this because we are discussing a constitutional change which generally concerns the structure of our Constitution. I would like to return, always very calmly and calmly, to the rapporteur's amendment, which removes the part of equality in the House of Deputies of the passive electorate and which makes sense, at least as far as we are concerned, very clear. That is the point: we are in an equal bicameralism. Everyone is part of his own history and I understand my colleague Garavini who supported the Renzi reform. I did exactly the opposite: I fought in this House against that reform, which in fact reduced the Senate to nothing, because I think that equal bicameralism made sense not only when the founding fathers and mothers discussed it, even for a very long time, and in the end they chose it that way, but it also makes sense today. He's weakened. Of course it's weakened, but then we go to the root of the problem. That is what I have heard many colleagues say today, but on time and regularly it is not an issue that is being addressed, when it should be done, by all of us working for a constitutional change. I am talking about the fact that the two branches of Parliament, both the House and the Senate, and therefore the individual parliamentarians, have lost in recent years more and more the opportunity to fully express, if not rarely, their mandate, for the disease that is causing an ever stronger weakening of the role of Parliament and hence of the Parliamentary Republic, which is represented by the decree of urgency and by the trusts. This is the point on which we really should open a real debate session to arrive - this time yes - at a reform and a joint change that perhaps would also have a slightly wider majority. Here's the thing. I do not want to equate totally, in a surreptitious way, especially in the mechanism of the passive electorate, Chamber and Senate, because I think it is important for our parliamentary Republic, also for how it has arrived and arrived at this choice, to keep bicameralism equal. The real problem we have to deal with, if the measures are taken in turn once in the House and once in the Senate, is this. That's what weakens us. We complained about the fact that decrees-laws arrived that in three-four days we had to hesitate with confidence; just as the House complains that decrees-laws arrive as - for example - the last on simplifications the last useful week. This is the true point that we should - obviously not only on these occasions or in words - denounce and we should understand that Parliament's weakening from this has passed. Then there is another element. Do not think that with the linear cut of the number of parliamentarians you will find the solution for the selection of the ruling class and that immediately, affecting the quantity, this produces in itself more quality. Here too we must have the courage to say that for a long time the question of selection, of how the lists and electoral mechanisms of the blocked lists are formed has produced in recent years a problem of quality and, therefore, also of autonomy and independence of the individual Members, and therefore of freedom of the mandate. These are the true roots of the malaise, of the problems we have for our parliamentary democracy. Frankly, as far as small speeches are concerned, it is not that I think that constitutional reforms should not be done on time, but we must have a clear framework, which are the problems that - these yes - would be necessary and urgent to address. The problem of Parliament's weakening is not a majority: I have been to the majority and the opposition and I can say that we have all had the problem - no one is free from sin - of constantly using the urgent decree and increasingly trust. As you can see, therefore, this has become the modus operandi of Parliament and is in deep contradiction with parliamentary democracy, with a parliamentary Republic such as ours. We shall vote in favour of this amendment because we are absolutely opposed to the fact that there is total equality between the House and the Senate. It is clear, in fact, that when everything is the same (the active electorate and the passive electorate), everyone will wonder why two Chambers should remain, and this frankly, as far as we are concerned, is not acceptable and does not agree with us. The presentation of this amendment and the fact that another type of debate had taken place in the Commission say a lot about the fact that - alas, and this is also a self-criticism that concerns everyone - when we also put our hand to reforms and small interventions on the Constitution, we must be very cautious and above all not be influenced. I would like to remind you that the issue of voting for eighteen-year-olds had also been accompanied - you will remember that we were talking about the 16-year-old vote for the administration - by a campaign which concerned it. I believe that we must always be very careful, because we are touching the rules and we cannot be too influenced by the campaigns that are born and then turn off and very often lead to reforms that are not adapted to the need for our democracy. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment, which will have the effect of widening the audience anyway - so the 18-year-olds will vote for the Senate - but please do not use juvenile rhetoric. Rather, we need to focus seriously - it would be very important to have a session of Parliament to really discuss it - the real problems that we will have to face. With regard to the selection of the ruling class - I repeat - we have an electoral law problem; we are faced with the criminalisation of the parties that selected their candidates in Parliament. Things have turned out differently, but today I think we will have to think through this and perhaps review some of the mechanisms. Above all, to strengthen Parliament, as far as we are concerned, means first and foremost to deal with what we consider to be an evil, namely the abuse of the decree of urgency and the consequent use of confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u161	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are concluding the first stage in the process of an apparently small but absolutely not marginal constitutional reform. A famous quote by Benedetto Croce says with irony that young people have only one duty, to grow old as soon as possible. With this constitutional amendment, young people, boys and girls between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five, we attribute a new duty, which is obviously, first and foremost, a new right: to vote for the Senate as well. The reasons for this choice are different and I support them. Meanwhile, there is a need to reduce as much as possible the risk of different political orientations between the two branches of Parliament, which became stronger after the referendum in December 2016, which would radically change our institutional system. The President of the Republic took charge of it first, clearly, as usual; in the same sense, the Constitutional Court issued a warning that the electoral laws of the Chamber and Senate, although they could be different - considering that the election of the Senate must take place on a regional basis - are built so as not to hinder the formation of homogeneous parliamentary majorities between the two Chambers. The Court's warning has been followed - I must say - by Parliament, because the current electoral law, on whose merits there are, as you know, different judgments, which are being compared in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the House, has, however, tried to minimize the differences between the House and the Senate. Despite this, as we know, even in the current legislature, political parties do not have a homogeneous representation between the House and the Senate, which is an anomaly in the functioning of a parliamentary system and an equal bicameralism. For this reason, in agreement with many, I believe that the indication of the Constitutional Court, as well as the thinking of the head of state, should not be limited to the electoral system, but can and should also be extended to other components of the institutional structure, including constitutional rules. We must avoid prejudice on this. We all know that, when the Constitution came into force, the diversity of electorate between the House and the Senate was smaller, being only four years old. This difference was accentuated in 1975 when, with the reform of family law, therefore by ordinary law, the age of 18 was anticipated. Today, the seven-year difference in the active electorate means - as many colleagues have pointed out - a difference of more than 3.7 million entitled to vote between the two chambers. This is a significant difference, which has no reason to be anymore. I would also like to say something about the method of the path we have taken. What is taking its first step today is a punctual reform of the Constitution, which intervenes only on a single aspect. The history of constitutional reforms in our country is long and troubled and, over more than forty years, has produced many conferences, numerous Commissions, many projects and a lot of parliamentary work, and has also seen several reforms carried out. The most ambitious projects approved by Parliament were rejected by the electoral body. It happened, as we know, in 2006, with the reform approved by a center-right majority, and then in 2016, with the reform approved by a majority of opposite sign, center-left. After that experience, Parliament has taken a different path, which is that of specific and punctual reforms: this is the reduction in the number of Members, on whom voters will be called to speak in a few days' time; this is the reform that we are voting on today and so are other initiatives that are following their steps in the House of Deputies and in the Senate. Of course, they are timely reforms, but not random ones, as they are in an organic project. Of course, we can agree or not on the merits of these reforms (both on the overall and organic ones and on the punctual and specific ones). What I do not think is correct is the attitude of those who, at the time, criticized organic reforms (because they were too much and therefore would not have allowed different choices on different aspects of the reform) and today, instead, criticizes the timely reforms as such, because they do not provide a system response to a need for reform. This does not seem to me, objectively, to be a constructive attitude. I have heard many of my fellow Members - and I am very much aware of the substance of the measure, while here in this House we have heard about many other things that are the subject of the political debate today, but which do not belong to what we are discussing - who say that they are opposed to small-scale reforms and do not want any particular reforms. However, we must agree, because it is not possible to hear the same political parties use equal and opposite arguments depending on whether the reform is comprehensive or timely. [[Applause]] This becomes something unintelligible. Today's choice has a great institutional importance, because it is in favour of the centrality of the parliamentary system, and I strongly disagree with many of my colleagues who have said that it is against Parliament, that, in order to be central, it must work well and, in order to do so, it must minimise the risk of differences in the political composition of its two branches. Today's choice has an importance that finds its foundation in the fabric of our country, even in the demographic one. We know the intensity of the ageing population in Italy, which unfortunately has a large share of the Western world. Firstly, this trend must be countered by measures to promote population growth, kindergartens and services, and by greater gender equality and a more modern approach to working time. So what does today's reform have to do with it? In the meantime, it allows us to re-establish institutional balance as a small counterweight to the risk of over-balancing the representativeness of our institutions. Today's choice strengthens the role and weight of that part of the population - the youngest citizens - which may well be less experienced (they are citizens with fewer years), but which, by definition, looks to the future and is not the bearer of consolidated interests and contingents, but allows us to see where, for personal limits, we often fail to see. With today's vote we try to open a window to the future. I do not know if the great jurist Hans Kelsen was right, when he said that age, in order to exercise the right to vote, must be as low as possible. Certainly, with today's reform we are starting the path to overcome an electoral difference that has no justification, which has no similarities in contemporary democracies. I listened carefully to my colleagues, especially those of opposition, but not only because I was also surprised by some speeches by majority senators. I also listened to the speeches made during the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling and the suspensive question, and frankly I did not share the core of the reasons put forward. Why can't we vote on the change in the age requirement of the active electorate before the referendum? What is the logical link that prevents changing the composition of the electoral corps in relation to changing the number of elected persons? [[Applause.]] I remember that on July 31, 2019 the House approved the equalization of the age of the Senate's active electorate with that of the House, that is, the right to vote from eighteen years of age, with 487 votes in favour, five against and seven abstentions, a very large majority. Frankly, today when I heard the speeches of many of my fellow Members who are members of those parties that voted in the House in this way, I was amazed at that result. What happened in the meantime? The text, with the deletion of the part which also equated the passive electorate, returns to being the one voted by that 98% of the Members of the House and I hope, despite having heard many dissensions that they spoke about something else and not about the merit of the measure, that even in this case there may be a broad convergence. Of course, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u164	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my Group and President Bernini for giving me the opportunity to give an explanation of vote on this measure, because it makes it possible for me to explain some of the arguments that have been supported in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I immediately expressed my and my Group's concerns about this rule which, in essence, wants to identify the Senate in the House of Members and, with the amendment that has been requested to withdraw in this debate, also lowering the age limit for the passive electorate. This mini-constitutional reform does not convince us of the method and the substance. We are not convinced in the method, gentlemen, because, when you put your hand in the Constitution, you cannot do it in chunks and bits: you have to have a systematic and comprehensive framework of reform that can make the institutions that you want to modify workable and functional, and that is not the case. We have told you this in the Commission and also in the debate in the Commission and in the House on the reform of the cut of Members, on which we voted in favour at first reading, because we cannot fail to agree with the reduction in the number of Members. At that time we voted in favour at first reading, because we tested you and wanted to see if there was really a reformative will or if, instead, it was just a slogan and a totem to be given to crowds of voters and supporters. You've shown us exactly that. Then, one cannot intervene in a surgical way in a general context, because, if our constituent Fathers have established ways of representing and voting the representatives of the House and the Senate, obviously there was some reason. We must also make a self-criticism: we cannot do a constitutional reform, because both the 2006 and Renzi reforms were rejected by the electorate. Very well, then we affirm and declare our inability to find a solution that would make a constitutional reform workable. [[Applause.]] We tried with a bicameral commission, putting in the most authoritative representatives (I refer to the one chaired by President D'Alema, of which Mr Berlusconi and President Fini were members), but we did not succeed. We tried, as a centre-right, the reform in 2006, but we did not succeed; neither did the former President of the Council, Renzi. Then, there is a main road to constitutional reform, since this is a quarrelsome Parliament, which cannot find the synthesis of the needs of modernization of the country: a constituent Assembly is to be made. This is the only way to change our Constitution in a structural and organic way. [[Applause]] You see, by going to examine the percentages of turnout at the vote on the occasion of the election of the first constituent Assembly, perhaps we would not believe in our eyes: more than 90% of Italian citizens participated in that vote, because they had understood that the future of the country and the protection of fundamental rights were at stake. On the other hand, if we consider the last elections and those that will take place in the next few days, we can absolutely forget these percentages. Therefore, as far as the method is concerned, we have made a mistake. The centre-right was wrong, the centre-left was wrong, the bicameral Commission was wrong: let us give the word to the sovereign people. I address above all to the friends and colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, who want to make participatory democracy their horse of battle: let us give the word to the Italian citizens, who are far ahead of what we can think. Honestly, I didn't meet masses of young people in the election campaign who asked me to vote for the Senate. I met young people who asked me what their future prospects were and whether they would ever have access to a job or mature their pension. [[Applause]] This is the real social battle, the differentiation between the old and the new generations: not only will the new generations have difficulties in finding themselves in the world of work, but they will certainly not be able to reach retirement. These are the problems that must be addressed and which must be committed by Parliament and, above all, by the Government. These are the answers that young people ask, not to vote for the Senate. [[Applause]] If we were having a debate today to open up the possibility of voting to eighteen-year-old citizens who had not had it until then, then there would have been a justification, but today the eighteen-year-olds can vote quietly for the representatives of the House, which is a legislative body. As Mr Caliendo said, we too have been eighteen and twenty years old and voted for only one House. Honestly, I have never felt diminished in my duties, in my prerogatives and in the exercise of the right to vote. I also want to respond to my colleague, Mr Pinotti, who complains about the different positions within the same Parliamentary Group, between the Chamber and the Senate: this is the beauty of democracy and the meaning of having two Chambers, precisely because there is a different freedom, a different thought and a different maturity. We have also said this on the occasion of the cut of Members when the House, in a populist and united manner, voted for the cut; although we saw the vote of our Group colleagues in the House, we voted for the first time, as a sign of openness and trust, while the second time we voted differently, because we saw that our willingness had not been perceived or allowed. It is then a problem of method and merit. In fact, approving this reform would have been easier; perhaps the vote in favour would have also met the expectations of the citizens at this time, in which politics is seen as absolute evil. It would have been better to suppress one of the two chambers, because, giving the possibility to eighteen-year-olds to vote for the Senate, two electorates and two identical representatives are created and the spirit of the constituent Fathers is lacking, which in the differentiation of the active and passive electorate between the House and the Senate wanted to combine the best experiences, all, in order not to create discrimination. But the best experiences! At the age of 25 (then there was an amendment that reduces the damage) the best young people have just graduated: what do you want them to do within the institutions? They need to create a job and not waste time in institutions, losing the opportunity to connect with the world of work. [[Applause]] This is the assessment you have to make and what you have to do. At the end of all this, what is my Group's vote? It is not a vote against, and it is not for the perverse mechanism of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. I believe that there is a Council for the Rules of Procedure and perhaps I am the least well-known person, but this would be one of the occasions to convene it, to unravel this contradiction. Therefore, while we are firmly opposed to this rule and this reform, we will abstain on the policy of harm reduction. That is, we are against it, but if we voted against it, we would risk not having this amendment adopted, which would aggravate the situation even more. Therefore, we hope that in the time necessary for the third and fourth readings there will be a rethinking, an awareness and the affirmation of a principle: where democratic representatives cannot find a synthesis, the word will return to the voters; both the Assembly constituting the main way to change our Constitution, which, despite the many years, still represents a bulwark of freedom and democracy in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u167	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today you have heard my voice twice already, this is the third, and I think it is time to devote my speech only to young people, because considerations related to the role of the institutions have already been widely carried out by me. This measure concerns young people and it is right that they should now be put at the centre of our attention. My colleague, Mrs Pinotti, touched on a subject that I share: this country is ageing, it is gradually getting older and losing young people, not having young people, not having territories where young people are present means preclude any possibility of relaunching. Upstream we should ask ourselves much more carefully why all this is happening, because the Italians are becoming old, old, and why this drive is missing in this country that only young people, with their enthusiasm, their freshness and their hunger for life (as Steve Jobs said) are able to carry. But so much so: we must take note of the demographic situation and then give the vote to the 18-year-olds is a way to rebalance this decompensation. For Christ's sake, it is a drop in the sea, because giving them the vote without having the operational tools to draw the consequences is a half-way work. That of the "no taxation without representation" is a fundamental model of every democracy, of which this phrase is the cornerstone. We give young people representation, but we don't put them in a position to pay taxes, because they don't have a job. However, the excellent is the enemy of the best and somewhere we have to start. Moreover, the League, which looks so enthusiastically at young people, firmly convinced that the future of the country lies in the younger generations, would also have wanted, as obtained in the Commission, the age of candidates to be lowered. This result had been achieved in the Commission, so from this point of view, our openness to young people is broad and unconditional, aimed precisely at transposing that social demand. However, another amendment has been tabled for this House, which we do not agree with, because it frustrates the broad openness that young people deserve today. We are in favour - let it be clear - of the idea that eighteen-year-olds can vote for the Senate, as I said clearly, but today we cannot support this measure as it arrives in the Chamber, in the part where it deprives young people of the possibility of being elected to the Senate. For these reasons on the point, while sharing the main objective of opening the vote for the Senate to young people, I declare that the League-Salvini Premier-Party Sardinian Action will abstain from voting the measure here in the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u170	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft constitutional law that we are about to vote on, as we should remember, provides for a lowering of age in order to vote in the Senate from the age of twenty-five to the age of eighteen. The specific reason why we have heard so many things in this House, but in reality it is only and only that which we are talking about. The approval of this small, but important modification represents the stage of a path of minimal and punctual constitutional reforms that we are carrying out for the modernization of our country. In the meantime, let's start with a rather significant figure. Italy is perhaps the only advanced democracies in which citizens have to wait for the twenty-five years in order to enjoy the full right to vote. In all the others we are voting for eighteen years, in very rare exceptions to twenty-one. With this measure, therefore, we equal the age to exercise the right to vote in the Senate to that of the House, overcoming the de facto exclusion of a large proportion of citizens from an important part of political life, such as the election of us senators and senators. In this way we remove an increasingly anachronistic and unjustified disparity, an exclusion (concept, the latter, which is always negative, even more so when it comes to exclusion from a right, which should be extremely well founded and have extremely valid and universally recognizable reasons, which, in this case, seem to be linked to political alchemies and geometries, rather than based on merit). This exclusion, in our view, also results in a high numerical impact. At the last general elections in 2018, almost 51 million people were entitled to vote in the House, while 46.5 million were entitled to vote in the Senate. However, it has been more than thirty years that we are talking about lowering the threshold of the age of the right to vote for the Senate and those who know the subject know very well that we have already talked about it since the beginning of the eighties with the committee Bozzi and that the theme has crossed practically all the legislatures, always being dormant. That is why it was and is important to approve today the text as it had been dismissed by the House, without any further changes that would have resulted in the procrastination of the procedure of the provision. There is a high risk - and the words we have heard in this House today confirm their existence - that once again, as happened before, we will end up leaving almost 5 million Italians without the possibility of choosing their representatives in the Senate, once again excluded from a right. I am sorry that someone, particularly Senator La Russa, wanted to define the extension of the right to vote to the Senate to eighteen-year-olds as demagogy. The speeches heard today bear witness to the fact that, if we had delayed, the reform would most likely have come to a halt. If, on the one hand, there is the need to approve it so as to bring it into port, on the other there is also another reason why we have responsibly considered it appropriate instead to go ahead for the moment on the reform of the passive electorate. The 5 Star Movement has always argued that constitutional reforms should be punctual, understandable and shared. We therefore believe that the lowering of the passive electorate, because of the profound implications it entails on the institution, deserves a moment of reflection, debate and greater deepening, both inside and outside these classrooms. For this reason, bearing in mind the great respect we have for the Constitution and the relationship of loyalty with the citizens that distinguishes us, we have now preferred to overside. What is certain, however, is that younger citizens have no less right than others to express themselves and decide on their own future. In fact, the opposite is true: our young people may have more right to decide on the future than others, because by definition we are talking about this and the future belongs to young people. I confess that I find it exciting to vote on this measure today, just a few days after the reopening of schools, after very delicate months, in which our young people have shown great maturity and great responsibility, perhaps more than some adults. We will vote just thinking of them, that half a million students and students who have gone through a really unique exam of maturity, and they did it without an accident and without an unexpected. It is to them, then, that I dedicate this vow of ours today. [[Applause]] , to these citizens of ours, who will finally be entitled to express themselves on the whole institutional architecture, through the supreme democratic instrument of voting. It is the school that is the cornerstone of the democratic state, the most powerful instrument that society has given itself to form free citizens, those same citizens to whom today, with this vote, once we reach the age of majority, we finally extend the right of full participation and choice, that is, freedom. The extension of the vote for the Senate means in fact more participation, not with speeches and with fine words, but in deeds. Colleagues, let me conclude by reminding you that, shortly, an important electoral round will be held in Italy in many regions and throughout Italy the referendum will be voted on for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. The vote will be taken by the Italians between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four. It is precisely these young fellow citizens of ours who I say: inform yourselves, participate in the debates, make your voice heard and, whatever you think, go and vote. We place great trust in you, we are demonstrating it precisely with the provision today at our examination and soon you will be able to exercise your right to vote also for the election of the Senate: you will therefore have an additional instrument to make your voice heard. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u172	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u173	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I have asked for dissent on behalf of myself and my fellow Senator De Falco. I would point out that we are preparing to vote for a referendum which reduces the number of Members of Parliament, because - at least that is what is said, although there is very little talk about it, because there is no chance of debate - there are other legislative assemblies, of the Regions and of the European Union, and therefore Parliament is less important and therefore requires less senators and less Members. Above all, this Parliament is now relegated to voting on the question of trust in the decree-laws issued by the Government. So somehow we have created and we are going to ratify a leaner Parliament and a stronger Government. With youthful rhetoric, however, we say that the great innovation is to have the eighteen-year-olds vote for the 40-year-olds of the Senate. This is a great contradiction, it is a populist way of collecting the votes of young people, when in reality what you want is to have a wider electorate, because participation in national elections is getting lower and lower. Young people do not need to vote for 40-year-old senators; they need an inclusive school and to make their voice heard with proposals, perhaps with initiatives such as the "Parliament of Young People," as happens in other countries. We see very little young people here, we no longer audition and we no longer listen to people. This compulsiveness in wanting to change the Constitution as an excuse for participation, which goes through a little bit of legislation and composes a plan of centralization of power in the hands of a government, a European Parliament and stronger European institutions, is just a populist metaphor and reflects the desire to consolidate powers that would otherwise be lost. Now, my colleague De Falco and I would have liked to vote not to change the Constitution. I am opposed to this compulsiveness of wasting time here to change the Constitution, when we still do not know how schools open and when we have not yet given an answer on work, inclusion, disability and students. We still have to waste time changing the Constitution! To Senator Pinotti, who spoke of adhering to the will of his parties to change the Constitution, I say that the Constitution is of citizens and parliamentarians without a mandate. We must discuss here with the representatives of the people and not with the representatives of the parties about how this House is to be transformed. Therefore, having no key to say that we do not want to change the Constitution, we will abstain from this mode of voting, which we do not agree with. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u174	I believe that the rapporteur, having signed it, is in favour of his amendment. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 1,101 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u175	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u176	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,101 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All remaining amendments are therefore not included. The Senate therefore approves the provision in first resolution. The Constitutional Bill Nos. 307, 1022 and 1116 are absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u179	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask what I said in my question 3-01759, in which I submitted to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy the need to settle quickly the claims of insurance consortia relating to livestock farming. On this issue we still have payments dating back to 2015, for which it was paid just over a fifth or a sixth of what was due, and then there are 2016 and all the other years to follow. The Minister replied to the question at the beginning of July, giving assurances about the payment. Unfortunately, to date, nothing has happened and the risk that we are running - very big - is, on the one hand, a large debt on the part of the consortia themselves, which have been totally entrusted to the banks for years, because the payments do not arrive, and, on the other hand, the failure of the consortia themselves, of the resources to the agricultural operators who would have the title and right to have those provisions. The consequence is that many who have so far been insured with the consortia on the zootechnical part are not doing so, because they still have to receive payments for 2015. We allow ourselves to strongly urge a response on this issue, because, in addition to being a health safety issue, it concerns the future of insurance in agriculture, starting from the livestock sector referred to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u180	Senator Taricco, beyond its location, also the argument recalled the term "ajar."
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u183	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I do not want to be perched, because I think we can no longer be silent. We've seen people die like flies around me. I personally lost friends and we saw our grandparents die without even being able to embrace them for the last time, because this is what caused the pandemic in our territories. There is only a great void of affection left, that no one will ever give us back again. This brings in me and thousands of Lombards I represent here today. For months someone has declared himself blameless, dumping all responsibility on the Lombardy region and the Lombardy health system. By the way, I wish Rocco Casalino good healing after the operation at San Raffaele in Milan, Lombardy. [[Applause]] You washed your hands of it. Today, however, with the same water that you used, filled with hatred and resentment, you must rinse your mouth, because the following quote words have appeared in all the newspapers that we have read and that reported the interview of the member of the scientific technical committee, director of the regional emergency emergency, Zoli: "Secret plan? I knew everything. But I couldn't tell Fontana. And again: I had signed a confidentiality agreement on the file of the Secret Plan, and then it continues: "I could never have revealed to Lombardy the presence of a document on which I had been imposed absolute confidentiality." I have never appointed the document or delivered it. Do you know what that document contained? It highlighted the risks of the epidemic and how well known they were to the workers. It was the certification that in those days we could save lives, if it had been pulled out and had intervened. Unfortunately, that was not the case. [[Applause]] These were the lives of Italian citizens that we had and that you had a duty to protect. Now I want to know who, why and for what purpose a confidentiality pact has been written, why the judiciary does not care and why no one intervenes. [[Applause]] Answer these questions: we want the names and surnames of those responsible. The Italian people want them and we owe them to our loved ones, to my friends and to our Lombard people and to Lombard health care, who have paid the bill most of all in this dramatic epidemic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u185	Senator Collina, our agreement assumed there was a group intervention. If it is to be considered an exceptional thing, I will gladly give you the floor, without this, of course, creating the precondition for the failure of this understanding and trusting in its synthesis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u186	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking at the end of the sitting of a different tenor than the previous ones, but I believe that it is my duty, from a Faenza point of view, because on Sunday, at the Monza Grand Prix, many have noticed that there is an Italian team called AlphaTauri and it is based in Faenza. I wanted to emphasize an important fact, because it is a story, that of the Minardi team, also of a territory. There 400 people work there, more than 60 percent of whom, highly qualified, are from the territory. Around Formula 1 a whole chain of new materials, such as carbon fiber, has developed. A very important district was born. So, Formula 1 has represented a piece of history for our territory, but today, precisely for that tradition, even the new owners have left Faenza and have invested millions in the new plant. It is a living reality, I wanted to emphasize it. Of course, in my region there are many other important realities. I hope that Ferrari will be able to win again in the future, but I believe that such a significant fact for Italian sport should be mentioned, for my part, also in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u187	Senator Collina, thankfully I had you intervene. I too, personally, rejoiced at that victory. I had the opportunity to meet Minardi and I have to say that he is a great team.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u188	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-256.ana.u189	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 10 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.40 p.m.
