ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u3	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, approved by a majority changes to the timetable. The debate on motions and the examination of the draft law on terrorism, already on today's agenda, as well as the question time of the President of the Council of Ministers are postponed at another date. It has also been established, in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, that the votes for the renewal of the members of the Data Protection Authority and the Authority for the Warranties in Communications are postponed until Tuesday, February 18, at 16.30. Finally, the composition of the parliamentary delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is confirmed, as is the case with the other branch of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u6	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Conference of Leaders to which you referred, as all my colleagues know, did not decide on the timetable for work unanimously, and this is because, thanking the valiant President, Mr Malan, who participated in it for Forza Italia, was celebrated with fear. We had planned for the day of today's motions and agreed, given the narrowness of the times, that they should be one of the majority and one of the opposition. We have done our part, we have done it in terms; we have asked for it to be a motion relating to taxation and the amendments relating to this matter proposed by the centre-right minority. Unfortunately, at the Conference of the Leaders, the colleagues of the majority were afraid. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] arguing that we had specified the theme of the motion, which from general tax issues turns, in essence, into the abolition of the infamous plastic tax and sugar tax, which are cutting down a productive sector and massacring consumption. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you have pretended to sterilize VAT clauses, but plastic is found in nearby shops, supermarkets, groceries, home-care and personal care. And so you charged the Italians with additional taxes on consumption, pretending to break down the VAT clauses. Of course, it is disturbing to deal with all this in a large assembly like our Parliamentary House. Colleagues, you must assume your responsibilities, you have inserted plastic tax and sugar tax into the budget law and you must report it to the country in January and not only in December, when perhaps the Italians under Christmas are distracted. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] In January these taxes begin to impact on the wallet. However, for a temporal question, which I frankly did not understand, despite President Malan explained it to me more and more times, at noon yesterday - as requested by the Offices - we communicated the topic of our motion and at 5 p.m. we presented the content, which was of a kind of fiscal matter (i.e. only plastic tax and sugar tax). If it is true, as it is true, that at most it is the least, because you have considered yourselves incapable of dealing with this subject [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , asking for more time to prepare your motion? I do not understand and we do not understand, however, not wanting to understand - or rather, laying down a pitiful veil and not wanting to rip off the veil of Maya of your fear - let us say that it is okay and this is then our proposal for a calendar, Mr President: let us deal this morning with the majority motion, because we are not afraid and we are ready to deal with energy efficiency and environmental issues even now; to you we give more time to tidy up the ideas and try to put together your contradictions, since Italy Viva says that it wants to abolish plastic tax and sugar tax and so we expect you to vote on our motion. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] Agree, calmly: take your time and in the afternoon we deal with our motion of opposition. This is my proposal to amend the timetable. How beautiful, I see President Pharaoh already giving us reason, I am very pleased: then we know that we have Italy Viva on our side; thank you President Pharaoh. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] We expected that from you, since you say you want to vote on measures that are all ours: it is a pity that you voted against, not later than a month ago, but it does the same; we also accept an active and active repentance on your part, indeed, we are very happy. As far as the election and parliamentary immunity committee is concerned, I know that there has been a debate. President Gasparri has been exhaustive and completely clear on the point: we believe that we must keep the calendar voted unanimously; we have expressed our position, saying what we thought in all the seats (in the Junta of the elections, President Gasparri did it to the members of that organ; in the Capigroup it was done yesterday, again through the valiant President Malan). If there are any interpretative doubts, there is always a body called Junta per il Regolamento: I understand, however, that the majority does not want to convene it, because they want to do things only when they win, but not having the certainty that the numbers of the Junta per il Regolamento will agree with them, I understand that they are not in favour of its convocation. On the other hand, we are: I also give this to my colleagues in the opposition and, as far as I am concerned, I summarize our proposals as follows. Motions by the majority this morning; motions by the opposition in the afternoon; convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure if there were any problems with regard to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Romeo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u9	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like this House, as well as the Conference of Leaders, to be respected in the first place. What is happening on these days, on the other hand, I believe that this respect for the House, for the Conference of Group Leaders and, therefore, for the presidency of the Senate is lacking. I say this for the two issues now dealt with by Senator Bernini (both the motion and the election committee). At the first Conference of the Leaders, when it was proposed to deal with the subject of motions, Mr President, I specifically asked that the texts of those to be dealt with be known. It is neither civil nor normal for a political group to decide to deal with a motion without saying the content and making the text known. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]] In fact, the political opposition and majority forces must be organized on the text that the opposition decides to present a few hours before the sitting. This is what happened yesterday: we did not know the text of the motion tabled by the oppositions except at 6 p.m. at the Conference of the Leaders, on a rather delicate subject. Senator Bernini, I would ask you to vote on the amendment that we will propose in the so-called extension of time limits on the issue of plastic tax and sugar tax, not the 'fresh water' motions, which are of no use. Vote for concrete measures. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Therefore, this motion has been presented in an instrumental way, among other things, without giving us the opportunity to read it or to prepare another one that will allow us to present our ideas on it. Clearly, we cannot support the change in the timetable proposed by the exponent of Forza Italia. We wanted to deal with motions, but as we did, civilly, Mr President. Last week, we already said what the majority motion we wanted to put forward, with its content, was. They had plenty of time to study the text and submit an alternative motion. So, Mr President, since we are going to vote against the hypothesis put forward by Senator Bernini, I would like, as a precedent for the future too, to establish as a method that when the motions are to be dealt with the relevant texts and contents are known in time, so that everyone can organize themselves. Using these acts of direction, made available to senators, in an instrumental way, perhaps for close electoral appointments, seems a little absurd. On the subject of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, President, I very much agree that the Junta for the Rules of Procedure should decide whether or not there is a dispute as to whether or not to convene the Junta in relation to a different indication of the Conference of Leaders. However, you are well aware, Mr President, that we have repeatedly asked you to respect the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities should be balanced by respecting the proportion of the parliamentary groups. At this moment, also thanks to the fact that some Members have changed Group, moving from Movimento 5 Stars, to the League - the political force that said that the transformers should resign - in the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity we do not have proportional representation. [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u10	Let's finish the surgery, then everyone can replicate as they like.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u11	Senator Pharaoh, finish your speech. FARAONE (IV-PSI). In the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities there is no proportional representation in relation to the presence of Parliamentary Groups. It is very well then to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to decide how to proceed in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, but first - in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - the right balance must be restored. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u14	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we, as the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, are also in line with the proposed change in the timetable made by Mr Bernini. It was perhaps yesterday the worst Conference of Leaders that I have attended since I was a Parent. You have sent me a little out of divine grace, so much so that I have also used a few words that are not appropriate and unrespectful of the Institution, which is why I apologized. It is, however, very difficult to hear people speak in this House about respect for the Rules of Procedure and, then, to see a whole series of situations that really undermine the right of minorities. I appeal to everyone, beyond the fact that they belong to the majority or the opposition; let us all examine ourselves conscientiously about the protection of minority rights. With the beginning of the Conte-a Government, we come from a season in which the last question time with immediate questions addressed to the Ministers is dated November 7th. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's mid-January. When we were mostly with the 5 Stars, I remember that the minority in the Conference of Leaders said that the question time is one of the few opportunities it had to show off, to oppose and to see guaranteed the protection of minorities. "Premier time": we were announced well in advance, at the end of December, that the Premier would come to the Senate on January 16 to answer the many questions we would like to ask. But the day before they told us that, for institutional commitments, the Premier would not come to this House. The last time the Premier came to the Chamber for a "premier time" dates back to February 2019, so almost a year ago. Here too, therefore, there is the impossibility of being able to address the questions directly to the President-in-Office of the Council. Yesterday we took the subject of motions on the assumption that, unlike what happened before, that when it came to motions, each Group had the opportunity to present its own motion, in this case the majority gives us - I repeat, it grants us, be careful on this issue - to submit only one motion as an opposition. So we had to agree and discuss, which is why we have come to make the proposal, among other things within the time limits set by the Offices, who told us that the subject had to be communicated by 12 o'clock. By 5 p.m. - which was done and we hold the receipts - the motion was tabled. But yesterday there was the following climate to be right: "No, you have given us the theme but it is not the same as the motion; there is the question of the title; too late, we cannot. In essence, even at the end of the motions it really seems that we should almost discuss something that suits you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] You want to tell us what the motion is. Mr President, I am saying this because it really seems to me to be an excuse that was shown by Senator Pharaoh. We filed the motion at 8:00 a.m., you'd find some other excuse to say it couldn't be discussed. The truth is that in the face of all the problems and the right that the minority has to put the government in trouble, you run away and you are afraid. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] Alitalia, Ilva, the subject of the prescription, that of motorways: instead of coming to the Chamber to address them, as it would be right, escaped. I say this because, when we were mostly with the 5 Stars, I and my colleague Patuanelli, when the minorities had motions that put us in clear difficulty, in order to respect the right of minorities rather we invented the "supercazzola" to discuss the motion. This is part of the logic of the relationship between the majority and the minority. On the other hand, you don't even know how to make up the "super dick": run in front of everything. That's the real point. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u15	Senator Romeo, there is no need to use these expressions in this House. Our vocabulary is very rich.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u16	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I apologize, Mr President, I was convinced that this term had been cleared. The same is true with regard to the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. When the Diciotti case was to be discussed - and the Renziani in this House said that they wanted to try Salvini because the current one is the same as the Diciotti case - President Gasparri clearly and unequivocally said that it was necessary to arrive with the Junta's opinion within thirty days and at the time we were part of the majority together with the 5 Stars. I remember that President Gasparri insisted very much on doing this. We could have had some political interest in discussing it later, but he was absolutely peremptory in this case. He told me that he wanted to do things well: within thirty days, that he was not interested in any political assessment every Group could do, because he wanted to put himself in the position, in front of the judges, to respect the terms. Great. We do not understand why, on that occasion, the thirty days were peremptori, rightly and correctly; and, on this occasion, we must "dilate." Among other things, the date of 20 January is a favor that President Gasparri has done to the former president of the Senate, as well as magistrate, Senator Grasso and colleague Giarrusso, who are on an international mission to the United States with the Anti-Mafia Commission. Mission from which you can always come back because, as you have seen, to vote, on certain occasions, someone has returned from the missions without any problem. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, it is a very favor done by President Gasparri, but, despite this, the will is to postpone it again. When? After the elections of Emilia-Romagna. Yesterday I was discussing with Senator La Russa, who I think is right, because you want to try Salvini and you do not have the courage to do so before the elections. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is the truth; take your responsibilities, gentlemen. Instead of asking the question if perhaps it is not appropriate to proceed in this way, since the voters do not agree very much, postponed. It is the government of the referral to all spy. At this point, rightly, we, who respect the Rules of Procedure and the political agreements, President, very clearly, reiterate the request for the convening of the Council for the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Rule 18 (3) (a) of our Rules of Procedure, which I am going to read: When one or more of the Group's Presidents whose numerical consistency is equal to at least one third of the members of the Senate raise a question of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall refer the matter to the Board of Directors. The Lega-Salvini Premier Group - but I am convinced that the other two Groups, Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia, will also do so - will formalize the request at the end of this session: you go to the Council for the Rules, the only body entitled to decide, to understand the interpretation of when, once and for all, you have to vote, assuming of course your own responsibilities. Then, with respect to the fact that there is no majority, that the majority of you have it and the Groups have changed, gentlemen, it is not our senators who multiply like loaves and fishes; it is you who lose the pieces, so do an examination of conscience. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u19	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr. President, let's go by order. With regard to motions, I understand that there is always the anxiety to innovate, but, to be honest, in this case, the motion procedure seems to me that we have innovated a little too much. I say this to President Romeo: I do not know if perhaps the Regional Council of Lombardy worked this way, that is to say that one stood up and said that he wanted to discuss a motion and then, calmly and conveniently, he would let us know after a week. From personal experience, but I believe of everyone, and according to the Rules of Procedure, usually a group, a senator, eight, ten senators present a motion, deposit it and then hope that it will be scheduled at the Conference of the Leaders, or ask directly in the House - as has happened hundreds of times - for the change of the calendar and therefore for that motion to be included; not a generic motion, but specifying exactly the theme of the motion. So, last week, in the group leaders, the majority took a decision that, in my opinion, considering the situation, was probably wrong, because we always have to stick to procedures and rules. The Conference, in the face of the problem that you put to debate a motion, accepted the idea that you would later decide the motion that you wanted to discuss as an opposition. The majority, in a clear and immediate way, indicated the motion on the climate emergency, filed for a very long time and, therefore, every senator - and not only the Groups - was able to read, study and get an idea of the topic. At noon - I would like to remind everyone - we were told a title, which certainly could also include the plastic tax, but which said generically: impact on the real economy of the fiscal pressure decided by the budget law. And, in fact, the majority began to argue in order to present a motion that would make a general picture. The real problem - while you are talking about fear - is that at 6 p.m. we find that it concerns only the plastic tax and the sugar tax. It is you, then, who are playing games, games and games. It was necessary to present the motion always for the next elections in Emilia-Romagna, to show that you continued this battle on the tax. If you had communicated exactly one title that mentioned the tax - I say it without any fear - we would probably have presented two motions because I have my ideas and within the majority, perhaps, there are others. We would probably have had plenty of time to table a more detailed motion. As far as we are concerned, therefore, I reject to the sender the accusations about fear; the problem is that you have thought of using the discussion of motions as a play for truth even very childish. As far as the timetable for 5 p.m. is concerned, as everyone knows, it concerns the possibility of matching: if there is already a motion on the agenda and if you want to match another motion, it must be tabled by 5 p.m. That's what we're talking about. From now on, the procedures in this House must be followed to the very end; otherwise next time - as a group we have motions because we have deposited them for a year and a half - even in this House, if this is the procedure, I will rise and ask to debate a motion and put it to the vote under the title: 'Motion'. Then I'll calmly let you know what the object is. It is not a trivial fact, it is a matter of respect and it is about the possibility that every senator has of being aware of what he discusses; it is not just a problem of the relationship between majority and opposition. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] It is a question of the possibility for every senator to be aware of the subject of the debate, to be able to intervene, to make other proposals, to collect votes and signatures on different motions. I come to the question of the Junta. Last week, unanimously, a timetable was adopted which provided, as usual, that in the week before an electoral campaign, perhaps very demanding, as will be that of Emilia-Romagna and Calabria, there would be no session of the Assembly and neither would the Commission. We also regulated the possible exception that was to concern the issue of Alitalia: if there was a need to convert the Alitalia decree in time, it was possible that the Budget Commission and the Commission would meet public works, communications to work on the decree. We have, therefore, also regulated the exception. As far as we are concerned, this had to concern - you know perfectly well and it was peaceful because otherwise we would also have regulated that exception - the same work as the Junta. There is now a long debate on the nature of the Junta, and we are wondering whether it is excluded from the decisions taken by the Assembly (and not just by the Leaders): frankly, I continue to believe that this is not exactly the case. It is discussed whether the deadline for the transmission of acts to the Junta by the judiciary is peremptory or authorising: it is clearly authorising, because otherwise we would already be longer, since the thirty days would already have expired on the 17th, while the scheduled day is 20th and not by concession, but by decision. I overlook a whole series of behaviors, which have also been in the Junta and which we will have a chance to discuss. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you want the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to speak. All right! So let us talk about this Committee on the Rules of Procedure and I hope, Mr President, that it will listen to me, because this is very much about you. Dear Senator Romeo, this is not just a problem for those who have changed coats, but there is an issue, which we first, together with the Group for the Autonomies, have posed since the beginning of the legislature. In fact, it had never occurred, in previous legislation, that the Groups excluded from the Junta, composed of 10 senators, were not then integrated. However, the President has never wanted to take this decision and, even in view of the fact that, personally, at the Conference of the Leaders, I have repeated this request several times, he has never wanted to take it into consideration, each time camping the fact that it is not an obligation but a possibility. With regard to guarantees, I am used to being in the minority and therefore I am very careful about what it means to respect the guarantees of minorities. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure must intervene in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and for this reason it must have a broad representation of the parliamentary groups. However, this did not happen and today we have come to the point that not only the majority is in the minority in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, after the changes that have taken place, but there are three groups excluded from this Council. Now you are the guarantors and you are asking to convene the Board for the Rules of Procedure? The game is simple, because you have numbers and you have no intention - you did not want to do it when you were in the majority and you do not now that you are in opposition - to heal a vulnus in guarantees. So, Mr President, it is very well to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but we must return to legality. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and IV-PSI]] The Committee on the Rules of Procedure must be integrated, because there is a need to ensure. Today I am in the majority, perhaps tomorrow I will be in opposition, but I believe that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure needs to re-establish its balance and the reason why it is set up. We must therefore ensure that the missing groups are integrated in order to re-establish the rules once and for all. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u22	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, before my voice goes away, I want to say two things clearly about our position and then I want to argue with them. The first is that the Fratelli d'Italia Group shares and supports the request for the change of the calendar proposed by Senator Bernini, and the second is that the Fratelli d'Italia Group shares and supports Senator Romeo's request for the convening of the Giunta per il Regolamento. Having said that, which clearly establishes our position, I would like to argue, partly because I was present yesterday, at this long and verbally revolting Conference of the Leaders. As you know, there were two issues. I'll start with the first and then I'll get to the second. The first one concerned, as is well known, the debate planned today on motions, one by majority and one by opposition. That of the majority concerned the environment and the climate, that of the oppositions the demand for the abolition of two hateful taxes (the so-called sugar and plastic) that are, among other things, issues that have also very much engaged the majority in the elaboration of the financial maneuver, so much so that the modalities of implementation have been revised. So let's talk about a matter straight if not divisive and yet complex. Beyond this, however, a question of method was initially raised in relation to the deadlines, timetables and arrangements for submitting this motion of opposition. Having overcome this aspect of method, we have actually entered into the substance of our motion of opposition. This - I must say - is extremely alarming, because if we can discuss - even if it is all to be demonstrated - the aspects of method, we cannot discuss the merit aspects of a motion tabled by the oppositions, because this leads us to a level that is not acceptable. Having overcome this issue with difficulty, which represents - I must say - an alarm bell, an attitude which, in a sense, by this majority does not reassure us at all, we have reached the other issue, no less important, namely the date of the vote scheduled for 20 January in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Again, the same maneuver has been made, a sort of hide-and-seek (I say it without controversy), that is, a question of method, which is actually a matter of merit, a political question. The question of method would be that the Junta cannot meet because for next week we voted on a timetable that provides for the suspension of the work of the Chamber and Commissions for the regional elections in Emilia and Calabria. When we voted on the timetable for that suspension, no one objected that the Junta was a different body in nature and should therefore not be included in that sort of regulation. The question was raised yesterday, then a posteriori, and this is already an issue, if we want to talk about the method. Moreover, who can suddenly decide what is the nature of the organ of the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity, or whether it is autonomous and different from the Commissions? Certainly we couldn't do it yesterday, certainly the President couldn't do it. If this problem is to be posed - but in general terms - it must be put to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which must determine the nature of the organ of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. It seems to me that here too the question of method itself and the insistence of the majority on it are somewhat pretentious. I would also like to say with regard to the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities that the Junta itself unanimously voted on the date of 20 January. Furthermore, I would like to stress that President Gasparri has also been extremely correct from a formal point of view, because a date has been chosen that sees also those senators who, as we know, are on mission. There are so many questions of method, sometimes we climb on mirrors too, in order to put a question that in fact hides another, which is an exquisitely political issue, I want to say it with a lot of sincerity and also with a lot of determination. It is clear that the political question is the process in Salvini and I also say this to my colleagues in the opposition, joining in this - but not since yesterday or today - to President Meloni, who has been extremely clear on this issue. The postponement of the date is scandalous. The request for postponement is scandalous, because it hides the desire - yes - to try Salvini and, in addition, to do so after the elections. This will mean, beyond what will happen on Monday - and we will see it - that Brothers of Italy will raise the appeal that Mr Meloni has already launched in recent days of a mobilization, because there is not only the Chamber, but there is also the country and the square. Do you want to trial Salvini? Go all the way. The postponement of the date is a scandalous decision against which we will oppose it, including by calling for a general mobilization. [[Applause from the FdI Group, FIBP-UDC and Senator Candura.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u25	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I have the impression that you have attended conferences of different group leaders, because what we are told here today is not exactly what happened yesterday. I am also obliged to report to my colleagues, in particular to my colleagues, the Leaders of the League, Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy, what had been decided at the previous meeting of the Leaders. After a debate which had finally found a point of contact between the political forces represented in the Conference of Leaders, it was decided - rightly - to hold a debate on motions in this House. The request made and the agreement that was finally tightened provided that the opposition would be given the opportunity to present the same number of motions that the majority would question. Unlike the majority, who immediately pointed out that a motion had been tabled which is very close to our heart, bearing all the signatures of the Group leaders, on the climate emergency, the opposition political forces did not have a joint draft on a motion to be submitted to the debate of the Assembly. So, in order to meet the demands of the opposition political forces, the decision was made to give them the opportunity to agree on what motion to question: this is the truth. A timetable and a modus were also set to give them the time to do all the checks and insights of the case. At 12 o'clock yesterday, which was the time we had planned at the Conference of the Leaders, we requested information, even with some pressure, from the Offices, and a few minutes after 13 o'clock we were told the title of a motion, without being handed over to us the text; therefore, with an hour's delay and without having the text of the motion, which did not exist. And the text of the motion did not exist even when the meeting of the Leaders began. We were given a photocopy, Mr President, at the meeting. Too bad, however, that the motion before us had a different theme than what was announced at 12 o'clock. This is the Senate of the Republic, Mr President, and we have also discussed it with bright tones on several occasions: we should be serious and respectful of our role, our duties and our prerogatives. It is clear that the oppositions have tried to make the subject known as late as possible, or had problems of agreement on which subject to include in the motion to be submitted to the House, or, more simply and also understandably - it can happen to each of us and to me personally many times - they have forgotten, have been wrong or have not been attentive to the procedures. But of course what happened yesterday is not respectful of the Senate and this way of proceeding is unacceptable. In view of the willingness of the majority group leaders to address a majority motion and a motion of opposition this week, we play games to hide the issues and not allow all political forces to draw up proposals to be submitted to the government - we know that the motions are not so binding - within a motion. Every political force has its own mechanisms and its own internal comparisons and then there is also a mechanism of glue of the majority itself. After that, we find ourselves in tension, verbal violence. I do not refer to the adjectives, tones and words used by my colleagues at the Conference of Leaders, out of respect for the Conference itself. Others have done so here. I believe, however, that it is objectively unacceptable and that we go beyond the understandable and tolerable rules of a political dialectic, even very strong. I have made a very determined appeal to your work and speech, Mr President, to ensure that certain situations do not arise within the Conference of Leaders. On the Junta affair, I will not dwell on it. This is not the time for debate, because we are discussing the timetable. I believe that Senator Bernini's proposal, accepted by the other opposition leaders, is only provocative. It is obvious - and I say this in good faith - that they have made a mistake. We, in order to demonstrate common sense and willingness, have also decided to give up our motion, to which we cared a great deal. On the first useful occasion, we will schedule it. [[Applause from the PD and IV-PSI groups and Senator Unterberger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u28	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, let us clarify something very important right now. I am referring in particular to President Romeo's speech. We don't have, we won't have, and we've never been afraid of anything. Fear, however, is a concept that President Romeo should not bring into play. I do not want to enter into any other controversy of the past, because it is precisely the fear that has marked a political force not to assume the responsibilities of government and to face the budgetary maneuver. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the debate, it would be useful, and perhaps also peaceful, to remove this issue from the table. In my opinion, the most correct concept is that of proceeding in an orderly manner and returning to the facts their truth, at least for those who participated in the Conference of Leaders. I understand that Senator Bernini was told by Senator Malan, who was present at the meeting, a scenario, but - for the sake of part - that scenario - according to our opinion - does not represent the whole debate that took place there. I have to say, apart from those who have been somewhat exasperated - as President Romeo himself has acknowledged - that the situation has been agitated with regard to a very simple question that posed the majority; a question that was also raised in a low way, namely: when there are motions, of course there is a procedure to be followed. The procedure, however, tends to guarantee another type of interest: when you arrive in this House, there must be a balance in the debate with the combination. Evidently, what was contested by the opposition is that it followed a non-linear procedure. And the non-linearity of the procedure has been argued by the League itself and by the center-right claiming to have made mistakes in good faith - and no one doubts good faith - and in fact to have tabled a motion of their own, on an important topic such as climate change, which had already been deposited in a clear way and was available to all for possible combinations; and the League, then, announced another object. I do not make it a problem of time, because elasticity for minutes is not an issue that can be opposed. But it is also clear that, if I have to know how to combine my arguments on an equally important motion in good time, I have to do so in a framework that is clear in general. And that didn't happen. It is a fact that, from the non-linearity of the motion in question, we have come to a very complex subject, which also requires the reciprocal parts of the coalition to consult its own interior. To this end, we have also put on the table the waiver of our motion, because we cannot support - and I do not think we want to argue - that climate change is not an important issue to be called into question. It seems to me that this has rebalanced everything a little bit. So the whole debate that was born - in my opinion - is presumptuous. We have said - and here we continue with the question of not running away from nothing respect, instead, to those who escaped - that we do not want to subtract ourselves and we do not run away from these issues. Among other things, the sugar tax and plastic tax we talked a lot during the budget maneuver and we will not have, and we do not have, difficulty to continue to do so, if you want, for days. So, what's the point? The point is that we try to speed up certain processes - I do not know whether in view of what kind of goal or other - even in places where they should not be exasperated. The question of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is very simple: we have allowed ourselves - this is the term we must use - to put to the President of the Senate, which is a guarantee, as laid down in Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, of the good conduct, of the correctness and regularity of the Commission's work, a very simple issue. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Can President Gasparri convene a meeting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which for us is comparable to that of the other Commissions, at the time when parliamentary work is suspended? We have asked the President to put this question to President Gasparri, who will assess this argument in all its autonomy - as it should be - because it is undoubtedly a precedent. We have in no way pushed for referrals so as not to address certain issues. On the other hand, on this subject we would have to open the speech that in the said Junta were rejected of the supplemental instructors that had been requested by ours and that constitute a fundamental basis for being able to express their own judgment. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Rossomando and De Petris]] These are supplemental instructors even requested - it seems to me - by Senator Augussori and, therefore, also by the League. We should discuss this with a President of the Commission and rapporteur who votes when there is equality. We should discuss this and not the fact that we do not want to deal with the problems. It is also true that with regard to the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - as I said - the same members asked President Gasparri to put the issue to the President of the Senate. We simply asked for the two to speak and settle the matter. It has not been done and the request has passed as an escape, as a postponement and as something absolutely unrelated to the debate. The fact remains that, since there is a lack of representation of the Groups in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to convene it. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Marcucci]] This does not mean putting an obstacle, because it is not that we do not want the Rules of Procedure to be convened to deal with this issue, but we want it to be done in the plenum that the Rules of Procedure itself guarantee us. By the way, it is not foreseen when the Junta should be convened. That is what I wanted to say: contrary to what is thought, lawyers must speak little because they then have the opposite effect. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u32	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to speak for the obviously favourable vote of Forza Italia on the proposals made by President Bernini. Having listened carefully to all the speeches of the members of the majority groups, I would like to reiterate one fact. On the question of the presentation of motions, we have the documentary evidence, which was also shown yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders, which testifies that we sent the subject of our motion at noon, which concerned the effects on the fiscal pressure of the measures contained in the budget law. That was the subject that was communicated. The end of 12 o'clock for the sending of the argument had been indicated to us by the Senate Offices, which are faithful. Beyond what one can bring back, personally, from the Conference of Leaders, is true what is transmitted to the Offices, which is the rule to which one adheres. The Offices also said that the text would have to be deposited by 5 p.m., which we have done, and we also have documentary evidence of this. The fact that some communications arrived a little later does not depend on us, also because, if someone has so much craving to know in detail, word for word, the motions, comes forward at the Offices when the time of the deadline has arrived. As far as the subject is concerned, does plastic tax and sugar tax, i.e. the taxes on plastic and sugar, which are the main theme of the text of our motion, fall within or do not fall within the fiscal measures contained in the budget law? It's obvious they're coming back. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and L-SP-PSd'Az]] Then, if the majority were ready to respond to all the tax measures contained in the budget law, it is clear that they must also be ready to respond to two of them. In fact, it is simpler still, because the subject is much more restricted. The problem is that, of course, we do not want to deal with it. Among other things, in accordance with what President Alberti Casellati said at the Conference of the Leaders, our proposal was to provide for a further time: we should have discussed our motion this morning and instead we should very well discuss it this afternoon. However, this too has not been accepted. President Pharaoh told us that we do not need "fresh water" motions; but, if they are, what is the difficulty in discussing them? Moreover, if our motion is "fresh water," so are the majority. And, then, maybe that's why there was the concession to postpone them. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The problem is that there is a general postponement. President Pharaoh has always told us to vote on his Group's amendment to the decree-law of extension terms and I would say that that provision is perfect, because we could make a general extension of anything, since that is what you are doing: today there had to be the examination of the bill on the fearful dispute and it has been postponed; there had to be the examination of the motion that we have tabled on plastic tax and sugar tax and it has been postponed; for the first time in four months - indeed in almost five months now - the President of the Council had to answer questions in an immediate response, which according to the Rules of Procedure should take place at least once every two months - so we are on the credit of two - and this has also been postponed. The immediate questions, the so-called question time, to the Ministers in general and not to the President-in-Office of the Council, should take place twice a month, but the last time was on 7 November, and these too have been postponed. It is no wonder, therefore, that this majority never postpones the end of the trials, introducing the abolition of the prescription, so that the end of the trials is also postponed. It would be nice to be able to postpone everything, especially for this majority. The reality, however, requires us instead to face the problems, because companies, citizens, professionals, businesses must face them every day and cannot postpone them, because the problems come, as well as the tax deadlines and those of ever new obligations. We cannot go on with the referrals and, for this reason, we ask that at least the motions be examined and voted on today. Moreover, with regard to the question of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the authorization to proceed with the former Interior Minister Matteo Salvini, it is true that yesterday at the Conference of the Capigroup no postponement was proposed, but in Junta every instrument for postponement has been put in place: they still depend, because they have not been withdrawn, four requests for deepening and investigation, when we have a deadline that is imposed on us by a constitutional law. Let us imagine things at the meeting, namely that we asked for a vote to be postponed on a request from the judiciary and that, in spite of a deadline established by a constitutional law, we would present four, five and other requests for inquiry. In Junta these requests for investigation were made and, immediately afterwards, all the members of the government majority came out of the room; we could have voted on them because the quorum was there, we could have rejected them all and we did not. However, after four sessions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in this month when there was not even a speech by the senators of the government majority, not even during the general discussion - so they can still be all carried out - there are four pending requests for investigation, and earlier those of the two senators on mission in the United States were made to be able to intervene longer. Therefore, a postponement may not have been requested, but it is clear that understanding is precisely that. In addition, yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders, it was made clear that, with the postponement of work to the Commission, the majority wanted to include the Junta, which is not a Commission but in some way resembles it. It is enough with these referrals that unfortunately - as I repeat - do not postpone the problems of the country, but rather increase them. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u33	For the sake of complete information, I would like to inform you that President Conte will be on 6 February at 3 p.m. [[question time. (Comments from the Group L-SP-PSd'Az.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u36	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to understand very well the proposals that we are going to vote on and also the issue of the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which has been put forward by some Members. I would like to understand, for your part or my colleagues, whether the convening of the Council for the Rules of Procedure that has been requested is aimed at integrating the missing members, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, since there is no balance and that body today does not guarantee the proper democratic representation of this Senate, because of course I interpret it in this way. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u39	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the communication that the Premier Time will take place on 6 February, when, after 26 January, however, I do not know whether the Premier Conte will still be such and can therefore still be called Premier. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] ; or rather, I do not know whether, in loose Chambers, the President of the Council is entitled to come and tell us. There are two questions, the first of which relates to the question of the motion that should have been discussed today. Just as Senator Malan did, I want to retrace in chronological terms what happened: in the Rules of Procedure there is no time limit for the presentation of motions; the practice is used and, according to this, the opposition leaders, correctly, asked the Offices for information regarding the time limits within which to submit them. It has been said that for the title it was 12 o'clock, and therefore it was deposited as follows: "Repercussion on the real economy of the country in relation to the remodulation of the fiscal pressure as revised in the last law of Budget". Are plastic tax and sugar tax contained in the budget law and represent an increase in the tax burden? Yeah, awarded. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] By 5 p.m., the motion was to be filed, which - for documentary evidence - was filed within that time. What's the problem with the motion? Its inadmissibility: commits the Government to abolish the two taxes, point. Free to vote yes, free to vote no, and the government is free to take a stand. Definitely, Senator Perilli, it was discussed during the examination of the budget law, but - as you know - trusts are like giving a white hand, because they hide everything: we see well how some Groups think above all about plastic tax and sugar tax, which happen - always coincidentally - go to affect precisely in the region where on January 26 we vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] There's nothing to discuss. So: we want to realize that, since we returned from the Christmas break, we have established a calendar so that we no longer make a pipe until January 26, the date of the regional elections - and that's it, for God's sake! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - but risk blocking a constitutional body? Let us turn to the speech of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and to the request made by President Romeo. Colleagues, the Rules Councils are not that they are regular or correct or legal when you have a majority and no longer when you do not have a majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] While recognizing the intellectual honesty of Senator De Petris, who has always asked for its integration, I must also mention the following: the Council for the Rules of Procedure has never had a majority of the majority since the beginning of the legislature, because there are eleven members and I acknowledge that the President has never voted; technically, however, they are six of opposition and five of majority and nobody in the past has ever worried that the Council for the Rules of Procedure did not have a majority. I read paragraph 1 of Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure, just to remind myself, but also to my colleague Pharaoh who - I must admit - always recalls the need for the integration in question: The Council for the Rules of Procedure is composed of ten Senators, so that it is reflected in it - I would like to point out that there is no talk of majority or opposition - as far as possible - so there is also a derogation - the proportion existing in the Assembly among all the parliamentary groups, and it is presided over by the President of the Senate itself. So there are 11 members. The Council for the Rules of Procedure has been set up in a perfect way. The new Rules of Procedure of the Senate were created to prevent the birth of groups that did not appear in the elections. If you then let the rabbit out of the cylinder, with the symbol of the Italian Socialist Party, it is neither our problem nor the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] I read paragraph 2, which exemplifies the case in particular of the request for integration: "The President, having appreciated the circumstances and heard the opinion of the Junta" - so the current Junta must give an opinion on the enlargement requested - can - I stress - it can and must not - integrate with no more than two members the composition of the Junta itself in order to ensure a more adequate representativeness of the Junta itself. So, in any case, the first to speak on the possible enlargement is the Junta itself. A call has been requested, the Junta will express itself in relation to its possible enlargement - it is up to you to be able to do so - and then in relation to the interpretations that will be required of you. However, it is no longer possible to try to apply the law of the Marquis del Grillo to the Rules of Procedure in the Assembly, depending on the numbers. Do not make me say it because you all know it and I do not want to, and I apologize for the word used earlier by my colleague Romeo. I also went to look at her: if Zingaretti brings her back, it means she's in. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u40	Before we proceed, I would like to point out to Senator Calderoli that in the previous government the formation was five to five. I do not represent the sixth member of the opposition because I represent the entire Senate and, therefore, majority and opposition. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This is for a necessary specification of the numbers of the Board for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u43	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I must tell you that, when you spoke for clarification, I thought you were specifying to Senator Calderoli that all the groups in this House are legitimately present because the presidency of the Senate has declared its existence. I expected this since Senator Calderoli said that our Gruppo di Italia Viva would be born from the cylinder, as if its birth had been improper. This Group exists under the Rules of the Senate, Senator Calderoli. Therefore, precisely because it exists under the Rules of the Senate, it is legitimate that our Group, as well as the Group For the Autonomous and the Mixed Group, have asked - I must say the first two because they were already present before the birth of Italy Viva, but then we too - to want to be present in the Council for the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure. What Senator Calderoli has read convinces me even more of the goodness of our proposal. Nobody says that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should not meet, as you rightly and probably will be prepared to do. Mr President, the subject is that the Junta, as President Marcucci rightly pointed out, must meet with the first item on the agenda, namely the article which Senator Calderoli read, which referred to proportional representation, beyond the majority and the opposition, in the Junta. Italia Viva, the Gruppo Per le Autonomie and the Gruppo Misto are not represented in the Giunta per il Regolamento. After that, you say the same as you do, Mr President. However, since the Rules of Procedure provide that until the enlargement of two other members can be done, at least two representatives of these Groups must be represented, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, I would like to stress this issue and it is right that you should repeat it in order to certify the correctness of our behaviour. We are not calling for integration on the basis of the case concerning the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. We have been calling for integration for months: as soon as I became the Parent Company, I sent a letter in which I asked for integration into the junta for the Rules of Procedure. These are two unrelated issues: one thing is integration into the Rules of Procedure Junta, which has been called for regardless of the decision to be taken on the matter of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities; another is the assessment that the Junta will make. Mr President, I would like to repeat this because here is the joke of those of the League - sometimes supported by the other majority groups - who say all the time "Keep me, keep me." It is like the case of those who quarrel but are afraid of the person with whom they should enter into struggle: since there is no one who is holding them, they say "Keep me, hold me!." For us the Junta - Monday or Tuesday, on the 20th, when it is convened - can decide what it wants. No one's holding Salvini, the hero we'd like to contain, and we'd like to go to trial. The Junta freely decides what it wants and when it wants. We had made some legitimate requests for clarification and deepening. They don't want to do them, be patient: they vote what they want. After that, however, Mr President, I would ask you to protect the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which must see the representation of everyone, from the political gangs in which the opposition wants it to enter.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u46	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, although Mr Calderoli's arguments are in fact quite exhaustive, I would like to take advantage of them in order to integrate them with an argument which - I repeat - is no longer necessary to go back to the regulatory aspect, but could be of interest to the political aspect. I am referring to the vexed question whether or not we should supplement the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and even whether or not we should convene it. For God's sake, summoning it is always good, but the need to integrate the Junta, as well as optional - the "can" is very precise in the Rules of Procedure - and the possible absence before a decision on the nature of the Junta cannot worry the current majority at this time, because, never as in such case, the discussion on the opportunity or not to vote on the opinion of the Junta for the Assembly related to the story Salvini is an issue that does not change the history of that procedure. I would like to refer the matter back to this political aspect. The president of the Junta Gasparri has set the date of 20 January at a time of no suspicion, when he had the request from two members of the Junta - today he deals with them "Time" abundantly, testifying that in fact the two colleagues are in America on an anti-Mafia mission - to promote the participation of all. He knew, in fact, that the participation of all the members, normally - with a more political judgment than aseptic - would lead to the rejection of his proposal. President Gasparri, correctly, did not pretend that on the 18th, at the expiry of the thirty days provided for by the Rules, he would vote in Junta, but in order to favor the participation of President Grasso and the other senator he moved to the day when they had returned from the trip to America the date of the vote, which will presumably be made and which - I launch in a daring forecast - will lead to the rejection of his proposal. Therefore, we are not discussing anything that affects the proper functioning of the Junta and the will of the majority of the Junta itself. We're arguing - why not say so? We are in a political forum and I imagine we can say - whether it is politically appropriate, in terms of communication, for this decision to take place before or after the suspension for the elections in Emilia Romagna. We are, that is, discussing the reflection that this decision will have on the electorate. I think we're overwhelmed. I do not believe that the electorate will decide how to vote in regional elections on the basis of a short-term judgment of this Junta, which precedes that of the Assembly. So I say to my colleagues in the majority: for pity's sake, there is the request, and we have also shared it; we are going to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I am convinced, Mr President, that the numbers of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure need to be rebalanced. But don't tell me that it is essential that this happens before this decision that will not change the fate of the world and not even the trial in Salvini. The decision of the Council - not final because it will be up to the Assembly to confirm it or not - will determine whether the vote should take place before or after voting in Emilia Romagna. Mr President, in confirming, with regard to the debate on motions, what Mr Rauti has already said, and in recalling Mr Calderoli's arguments for the Rules of Procedure, my speech is intended to reassure the House: this is not an issue on which it is worth arguing, because we have so many, more serious and more important issues on which it is worth arguing, unfortunately or fortunately. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u47	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the calendar of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. It's not approved. MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u48	Colleagues, I call the Rules Council at 4 p.m. this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u51	DI MARZIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who speak, only out of discipline, have contributed by their vote to the adoption of the Constitutional Reform Act which reduces the number of Members, although they share not only the concerns expressed by scholars of the subject, but also the criticisms of those who have argued that the objective of saving, invoked for its justification, could have been achieved by an incomparably leaner procedure and without having to affect the constitutional dictation, i.e. by making a simple reduction in Members' emoluments, but keeping the number unchanged, rather than by halving it to unchanged remuneration. In so doing, any subsequent diatribe, widely predictable, about a possible vulnus brought about by the balances established by the Constitution would have been avoided, and not only that objective of structural contrast to the claimed privileges of the caste, historical identity battle of the political part to which I belong, would have been achieved, but also put an end to the cyclical controversy concerning the so-called refunds made by the spokesmen of the Movement who, quite randomly, in recent weeks have also seen me wrongly pointed out, contrary to the truth, as responsible for not having made any payment for more than a year. Therefore, as a senator of the Republic, who considers the duty of representation of the entire Nation and not only of a political party, not mere flatus voices, but inescapable ethical responsibility, I felt that I was not allowed to take away, for vile and quiet living, from the obligation to leave the definitive word to the electoral citizens, so that they were granted the right to participate in a choice of such importance that, if not examined with the widest possible weighting, it would only be necessary, if it had to prove unhappily, on those who had assumed the power to decide in the name of the whole community, while claiming to be merely spokesperson for it. The antinomy of the current objectives, moreover, compared to those pursued by others in years even too far, although it appears indisputable, is not enough to exorcise the fear completely in those, like me, unable to erase from memory the fact that what is happening can - certainly without wanting it - favor the designs of those projects that are not dissimilar has already advocated in the past in the context of dark plans of democratic rebirth, or of transformation in the presidential sense of the institutional structure. These are, in a nutshell, the reasons that have persuaded me not to exempt myself from making my signature also to the request for a confirmation referendum and, therefore, regardless of any subjective presumption of certainty as to the outcome of such consultation, of having to submit decisions of this magnitude to a scrutiny by the sovereign people, being unfortunately unable, unlike many, to consider myself a depositary of unquestionable truths. Surprisingly, this gesture, based on the strictest respect for substantial democracy, has turned into a stigma and not only on the part of that fraction of active public opinion on social media, which has had no restraint in demonizing the instruments of direct democracy in this way, while assuming to conform to its principles. There was no official stand against such censorship, with involuntary eloquence, in defense of an essential democratic principle to which one had, otherwise, constantly chanted, thus allowing me to be pointed out as a heretic, that is, less euphemistically, a traitor. While that indifference could have been attributed to the irrelevance of what happened, it cannot be acceptable, as far as I am concerned, for the silence which has accepted judgments with which, far from respecting fundamental principles, it has been explicitly stigmatized, albeit in an impersonal form, the choice I made. I have seen the use, rather than arguments of merit, of shredded commonplaces and strategies of admonition and guilt by means of argument ad baculum, the arguments of the stick, of the type: those who make these choices would be animated by the interest to trigger a crisis of government in order to go to early elections; they would assume the responsibility to bear the cost of a useless referendum, because of the obvious outcome; that is, with argument ad hominem, arguments of personal denigration, of the type: those who make certain choices would be animated by narcissistic desires of an hour of notoriety; by intents blackmailers, to retract, against counterparts; by petty will to revenge for the lack of recognition of supposed merits; by the objective of guaranteeing themselves prospects of access to future prebends, otherwise utopian. Therefore, in the face of a de facto purge, of which I can only have to take note, even with the regret of separating myself from colleagues involved, in order to avoid any doubt about it, I formalise here my decision to join the Mixed Group, a formation certainly unfit to favour any possible desire - most unlikely, with a future, by age, by now only behind its back - of the recurrence of an experience that has been so far disappointing, also because of the substantial disinterest in accepting any further contribution compared to that of having to press buttons. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u52	The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.01 p.m. and resumed at 6.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u53	I inform you that the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been updated until tomorrow morning, at 9 a.m. The Senate will therefore come back to meet tomorrow, at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-182.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday 17 January, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.51 a.m.
