ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u6	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. We learned from press sources - the slides were delivered to us in the newspapers - of the Colao plan, the product of this task force that we knew existed and that it was working. To a first superficial analysis of the contents of that document, with some indignation that I would like to submit to you and to the House and that I believe is motivated - but this will also emerge from the debate - the first points on which my eye fell were four amendments that had been tabled by the center-right to the decree-law care Italy. This poses a problem, in addition to the existing one of the legitimacy of a technical body: in the usual contempt of the Constitution perpetrated by the Government, the Premier, who has legal powers, forgets for example the existence of an article 99 of the Constitution, the one that establishes the CNEL as an advisory body of constitutional rank of the Government and of the Parliament in economic matters. It may or may not be pleasing, but there is, therefore, why, after vile Parliament, are we going to vile another body of constitutional rank by keeping it excluded from the decision-making circuit? [[Applause.]] Beyond these issues, which I realize that, thanks also to those who have sown the degradation of anti-politics in the Italian debate, may seem like Bagatellar considerations, generic, not of substance - because we do not want to understand that the form is substance - here there is a fundamental theme. We have slides in companies where they are presented as points of argument which were contained in amendments already worked and acceptable three months ago. So the government should first of all explain to us why they have been lost three months, in the sense that there are now two paths: either the government rejects the same proposals again, despite presenting them to it its Colao, or approves them, and then it must clarify to companies and families why what we proposed (for example the fiscal white year and a whole series of measures in favour of the liquidity of the companies or the suspension of the code of contracts) now become a diamond while three months ago they were considered manure. And in the meantime, the fabric of this country's businesses stands out, with serious consequences also for the maintenance of the social order. Therefore, on behalf of my Group, I would ask the Premier urgently to report on the significance of this operation, because a government that is thus delegitimate in itself. I would also like to remind you that it is not a very elegant operation by a government supported by four parties, three of which have lost the previous elections - in fact two, but then one has broken into two pieces - and one had declared that he never wanted to ally with the others. It is not a great operation, nor is it elegant that this Government intends to chart the path of Italy, among other things neglecting some fundamental issues: if it is precisely about reforms, in fact, the great absentee in the Colao plan is a reform of justice. Among other things, there is also another theme: the summoning of the "States General" to what use if everything has already been written in the Colao plan? So, honestly, we are on the catwalk: the only positive thing of the General States is that, as you know, the last summoned in 1789 did not bring much good to the monarchy. We therefore expect that even "King Giuseppi", in a less bloody way, will see the end of his experience thanks to this brilliant idea. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u7	Definitely less bloody; thank you, Senator Bagnai.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u9	Do you always speak on the same subject, Senator Zaffini? Mr Zaffini (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the floor and I invite any other Members who wish to speak on the same subject to make a reservation. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, how can we not agree with Mr Bagnai? It seems absolutely logical, but not obvious, what he told us. As the Brothers of Italy Group, of course, we support the request - pleonastica - to the Government to come and report on the circumstances and details of the Colao operation. Mr Bagnai spoke of the runway, because this operation is completely part of the mood of this Government: first to show and then, probably and impartially, to produce. The operation was then presented with the grandcassa and great expense of adjectives: in reality, then a summary document is born, presented in the absence of the Government and the Premier, which I imagine is already a signal that you wanted to give (if in the presence it is attached so great importance, I believe that the same will have happened for the absence). In general, from a first summary reading of this plan, I observe just a sort of further dismantling of the state and of the family jewels. For example, the hypothesis of setting up a fund, which is not well understood if it amounts to EUR 100 or 200 billion (we are precisely the numbers extracted from the lot); it would be a fund with inside the residual patrimony, that is what remains of the so-called family jewelry (after we began to dismantle the body of the "jewels of State" with Prodi and the IRI) and the heritage of the Regions, thus exceeding also the limits of its mandate, basically to put to guarantee you do not understand well what debts the State should contract. On the contrary, it seems to me that the most trivial and simple proposal is the one formulated by the centre-right on a thousand occasions. the issue of public debt with a view to recovery. Compared to all this, we can only expound, imagine and work of fantasy to understand what is behind this whole operation. I'm guessing that there are also events behind it related to the future of the Count Government and Count himself, whether he's gonna put a party together or not. With respect to all these ballets, Parliament must regain its role, Mr President, and it must demand that the Government report on an operation which has been presented with the grand-cassa, which in any case has involved the commitment of resources, regardless of the result, and the outcome of which must be announced to us. With regard to all this, the Fratelli d'Italia Group naturally supports Mr Bagnai's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u10	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u11	Before we proceed with the debate, I shall of course inform the President of the Senate of the request that has been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u14	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, perhaps when you report to the President of the Senate, you should also add that a completely off-site debate has taken place, because there is very little here about the order of business. Among other things, it also surprises the fact, President La Russa, that this issue, which can certainly be worthy and receive all the attention in order to be accepted, should be discussed at the Conference of the Leaders. [[Applause]] So, in my opinion, not only has a request been made in the order of business that has nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] We have also discussed the substance of what is likely to be said in the course of the debate. So, Mr President, in my opinion, this subject can be discussed, in the fullness of a parliamentary debate, at the Conference of the Leaders, and I do not see how a debate on the substance can be held today because even the Prodi Government has been mentioned, we are quoting measures, what it has not done or what Conte has to do. So if it's a political debate, you tell us yourself, President, let's start talking about the Colao plan and not the decree-law on our examination. It seems to me that this is an escamotage. [[Comments]] No, I am not afraid to discuss these matters, I just said that they should be discussed in the appropriate forum. If you use - as you often do - these occasions, taking time to discuss the decree-law at our examination, to try to tear some political argument here and there do so as well, but this is not the place. [[Applause.]] I am sorry that once again the instrument of the order of business is being used, among other things on an issue that has been well known for days, so the Leaders have already addressed it and the President of the League Group has not mentioned the need to call Conte to report on the Colao plan. I see the air is like this today. Mr President, I would ask you formally to report that, once again, a debate has been held on the order of business which has nothing to do with this matter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u15	Don't worry, Senator Perilli, I will report, also because the President was absolutely informed, in such a way that you take the decision on the request to intervene on the order of business that, fortunately, does not take time because, as you know, the decree on justice is not yet ready. So, thank God, the Senate has time. [[Protests]] I mean this morning, I'm just saying there's no waste of time. It is a given objective in fact. I apologize if anyone is offended. My colleague said that the debate in progress would take time out of the debate, and I just said that we should not have a full day as far as the agenda is concerned. [[Protests]] However, the President was informed and allowed the request to be made on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u18	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I have heard of requests outside the Chamber. In reality outside the Chamber and those who have external task forces and conferences that are not Parliament's classrooms do what Parliament should do under the Constitution. That means being off-site. [[Applause]] If there is a plan for the country, then it is up to the parties to draw it up and to the parliamentary groups. There are authoritative parliamentary majority groups; why don't they do it and send it, instead, to people who may be abroad (and we still haven't figured out how much they cost and what do these gentlemen do)? Here the game has been: to delegitimize Parliament with the history of caste and of the privileged, to bring to Parliament people who obviously do not feel appropriate to their role in Parliament and in the Government and then to entrust to people who have never been elected by anyone - and in most of them are not even known by anyone - decisions that should be taken by Parliament and the Government. This is absolutely the place. [[Applause.]] The one who misplaced the seat is the government. If you want to make conferences do them, but first of all do legislative work, do not escape, do not put trust in all the measures, do not issue 500-page decree-laws where it is practically impossible to intervene. That's the problem. Regarding the purpose of the work that is being done by the majority or the Government, or parts of the Government, yesterday I also heard some very appropriate interventions by leading representatives of the majority argued that the laws are being made in Parliament, in Palazzo Madama, in Montecitorio and not in villas, even institutional. [[Applause]] However, these things must be done in the parliamentary classrooms; if the plan is to outsource the management of legislative power and executive power we do not agree, because we do not share an open violation of the Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u19	I would remind you that practice allows one Senator for the Group to speak at the beginning of the sitting, such as the late-session speeches are off the agenda but allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u22	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a few clarifications and comments on the space we are dealing with at the beginning of this sitting, which was called on the agenda for the conversion of Decree-Law No 30 of 2020, introducing urgent measures for epidemiological studies and statistics on SARS-Cov-2. The measure is ready, so we are not talking about a sitting in which the first item on the agenda was that on justice, on which there is still work in progress. [[Applause]] We are talking about being fully in condition to start our work, as well as calendar. However, what I wanted to observe is not the legitimacy of introducing a political theme, because no one takes away anything from the fact that a Group can consider the debate that has opened up on the work of the Colao Committee as a political theme worthy of an opening; but we must clarify what course to take because, as much as there is freedom for each of the Groups to express their opinions, if they become all-inclusive, the authoritativeness of this sitting is lost. We therefore ask you, President, on behalf of the Democratic Party, to transfer to the President of the Senate a request for greater attention to be paid to how this debate takes place; otherwise, an endless debate could be opened every morning on all the current issues of the country, and there would be one. Secondly, I think that if we really want to respect Parliament, as has been called for, we need to be clear on some issues, the first of which is the following: does Parliament have a place where we can check whether there are the conditions for requesting the presence of the President of the Council? I think it is, this place is the Conference of Leaders, so you use it in your own way. After that, if we want to add a political remark, I do not think that President Conte has escaped from the parliamentary classrooms any discussion of any kind in the management of this emergency, which we have amply requested; therefore, that will be the place that will find the most appropriate ways to raise President Conte again, if there is a need to do so. As for the Colao commission, in some cases I find curious the considerations of the colleagues of the center-right: when the government closes everything inside the institutions they complain that there is no opening because the country is not involved [[Applause]] ; at a time when the country is involved, as has been done in any case, it in some way becomes an overcoming of the constitutional powers provided for Parliament. It is clear to everyone that the Colao Committee has set up itself for a free initiative of this Government and of the majority that supports it and has supported it also in that operation under absolutely extraordinary conditions, where the opinion of some authoritative experts had its usefulness, since we were proceeding with progressiveness and with many doubts about what was happening around us. We will find a way to discuss the content, but I conclude by saying that I said a few weeks ago that a Parliament is strong if it proposes and does not occupy; today I say that it is strong if it is authoritative. It doesn't scare me if the Colao committee proposes content. I am not afraid that this Parliament will be delegitimized. It is those who put the question in these terms that delegitimizes it. I am not afraid that this Parliament will be able to take the most serious points from that plan, to the level of the role that we have, leaving out those that we do not believe fit in with the same role, without fear that someone will overstep us. [[Applause.]] I fear that those who continue to show the fear that something can actually bypass Parliament do so because they have neither arguments nor content to support the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u23	Colleagues, I confirm that I will report to the President of the Senate the tenor of the speeches that have followed, as usual.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u24	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1800. The rapporteur, Senator Castellone, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u25	Mr President, the decree-law in question lays down the rules governing the conduct of a survey of seroprevalence, therefore epidemiological and statistical, conducted by the Ministry of Health and Istat, concerning the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus in Italy, which causes the disease known as Covid-19. The survey is based on serological analyses to detect the presence of specific antibodies in the individuals included in the samples. The purpose of the survey is: to obtain a framework of data on the immune status of the population and the spread of the virus; to obtain information on the clinical and serological epidemiological characteristics of the virus, including the lethality rate, and to adapt preventive and containment measures and strategic decisions in the health and social health sector. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 authorizes the processing for statistical and scientific purposes of personal data collected in the context of the survey of seroprevalence under consideration, including genetic and health-related data. Paragraph 2 provides for the establishment, at the Ministry of Health, of a special technological platform, intended exclusively for the conduct of the investigation in question, and specifies that the latter is based on the execution of serological analyses for the search of specific antibodies against SARS-Cov-2 virus, with reference to the individuals covered by the samples referred to in paragraph 3. According to the latter, Istat, in agreement with the said Scientific and Technical Committee, identifies one or more random samples of individuals, whether longitudinal or not, also found on a regional basis, by age, gender and sector of economic activity, who will be invited to undergo the serological analyses in question. The term "longitudinal" also refers to the possibility of using the same samples over time. With an amendment approved in the 12th Commission, it is proposed that the Istat's annual report to the Chambers should include the activities carried out by the Institute in accordance with this Article 1. Pursuant to paragraph 4, the Istat shall safely transmit to the above-mentioned platform the personal data and the tax code of the individuals, as well as the exhibitors the parental responsibility or the guardian or the affidator of the children of age. Pursuant to paragraph 5, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, in order to facilitate the participation in the investigation, communicate with sure modalities to the doctors of general medicine and to the pediatricians of free choice the names of the relative assisted in the samples, so that the latter are informed by the aforementioned professionals of the investigation in progress, while the association of the Italian Red Cross telephonely checks the availability of the individuals to carry out the serological analyses. It is expected that in this telephone contact the appointment for the withdrawal will be set and the information to be given to the data subject in a summary manner, in accordance with the European framework on the processing of personal data. With an amendment approved by the Health and Health Commission, it is proposed to specify that, within the framework of this summary information, the sources of full information are indicated to the person concerned. The latter, according to the same paragraph 5, are published on the institutional websites of the Ministry of Health and Istat. Paragraph 6 provides that the samples collected at the appropriate collection points are analyzed and reported by the laboratories identified by the Regions and autonomous provinces; the results of the analyses are communicated to the interested party and, through the above mentioned platform, to the Ministry of Health and Istat. An amendment approved in the Health and Health Commission proposes to clarify that the communications relating to the person concerned are made safely by the autonomous regions and provinces, including through the aforementioned laboratories, while the communications, via the platform, to the Ministry and to Istat are carried out by the laboratories themselves. The samples collected are delivered, by the Italian Red Cross, to the biological bank of the National Institute for Infectious Diseases Lazzaro Spallanzani. The controller of the data collected in the biological bank is the Ministry of Health and access to data by other subjects for the above-mentioned research purposes is only allowed in the context of joint research projects with the same Ministry. Paragraph 6 also provides that samples shall be kept at the biological bank for a period not exceeding five years. With regard to personal data, the following paragraph 10 provides that the Ministry of Health and Istat delete them after forty years from the collection, while other users can retain personal data only for the time strictly necessary for the purposes in question. Paragraph 7 allows the data under consideration to be communicated, provided that they do not have direct identification, to the researchers within the hypotheses referred to in article 5-b, paragraph 1, of the legislative decree 14 March 2013, n. 33 and subsequent modifications, and to further subjects identified by decree of a non-regulatory nature by the Ministry of Health, in agreement with the president of the Istat, after hearing the Guarantor for the protection of personal data. Paragraph 7 also allows the Higher Institute of Health to process for scientific research purposes the data collected in the context of the survey under consideration. An amendment approved by the Health and Health Commission also provides for the same possibility of use by INAIL. Paragraph 8 also provides that the association Italian Red Cross, Regions and Autonomous Provinces, laboratories identified by the aforementioned territorial authorities, doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice are subjects responsible for the processing under consideration to the effects of the discipline on the protection of personal data. The same paragraph 8 allows that the Regions and autonomous Provinces, for purposes of analysis and programming in the context of the current epidemiological emergency, have access to the data under examination of their assisted in individual form, but without any reference that allows direct connection with the interested parties, providing for the dissemination of data only in anonymous and aggregate form. With regard to this provision of paragraph 8, an amendment approved by the Health and Health Commission proposes the inclusion of a safety standard in the forecasts of the previous paragraph 6. Paragraph 9 provides that, for the purposes of carrying out the investigation in question, personal data may be acquired in accordance with the rules in force. Paragraph 11 specifies that personal data collected pursuant to this Article are processed exclusively for the purposes identified by the same, in compliance with the general principles on the processing of personal data. Pursuant to paragraph 12, the Special Commissioner for the implementation and coordination of the containment and control measures of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 shall ensure the purchase of the appropriate devices for the administration of the serological analyses under consideration, as well as of any goods necessary for the conservation at the said biological bank of the samples collected. Paragraph 13 provides that, in view of the urgency, Members may provide for the acquisition of goods and services also computer-related to the activities referred to in this Article by means of negotiated procedures without publication of a notice of invitation to tender and after selection - where possible - of at least five economic operators to be consulted. Paragraph 14 allows that, for the purposes referred to in this Article, the ISTAT shall assign self-employment assignments in no more than ten and for a duration of six months. Paragraph 15 sets out certain expenditure authorisations and provides for the corresponding financial cover. Finally, an amendment adopted by the 12th Commission proposes to increase from 6 to 15 units the maximum number of individual fixed-term assignments related to the professional profile of technical officer for biology, chemistry and physics that the Ministry of Defence can confer in relation to the increase of the performances charged to the scientific department of the Military Clinic of Celio. The standard subject of news refers, in addition to the increase of the performances charged to the scientific department of the Celius Military Polyclinic, also caused by biological emergencies and the related need for the development of tests for rare pathogens, to the aim to meet the extraordinary and urgent needs deriving from the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus to guarantee the essential levels of assistance and to support and support the other structures of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u26	I would remind you that the amendments adopted by the Commission have been sent to the Groups, which therefore have one hour from now on to submit sub-amendments. It's 10:06.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u27	Mr President, as you know from Forza Italia since 31 January, when the health emergency was formalised, the same day that the Minister was in this Chamber announcing the start of the emergency, we immediately made ourselves available to help the country, to help our citizens to overcome this emergency as soon as possible and to make it less serious than we imagined. We did this by giving institutional support to the government. We have done so in Parliament, we have done it every day with President Bernini and in this House, making a real contribution to our proposals, giving suggestions and advice to the Government. We continue to do so today, we did it in the Commission and we have never lost a moment to give what can be our support, not only political and institutional, but also concrete to the country. We have also done so in Europe, through the vice-president of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, and we have done so with the president of our party, Silvio Berlusconi. We believe that we need to team up to get out of this very serious emergency that has affected our country and the health of our citizens, many of whom have even lost their lives. Today we are discussing a measure that includes epidemiological studies and statistics compared to the Covid-19. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In this regard, this measure provides for 150,000 tests to be administered to Italian citizens by means of a blood sampling that must be done in specific places, through the Italian Red Cross, which we thank and from the news that came to the Commission yesterday by Commissioner Arcuri, out of 167,000 phone calls and contacts with citizens invited to take the test, only 17,000 responded giving availability. So, this is already a limit to screening. We all know - I turn to Deputy Minister Sileri who is a very valid doctor and knows very well - that the approach with the population must be as invasive as possible, when it comes to screening, otherwise the times are longer because it is difficult to identify who is willing to participate and, lengthening the time, we also risk not respecting the will of the Government to intervene with respect to the solutions to be made for the benefit of the country. It is clear that opening the country without an epidemiological investigation is still a risk; the fact of doing it can certainly be an advantage, but done in this way does not help neither the Government to find solutions, nor the citizens to understand what is the presence of the virus within our territory and above all to understand how many Italian citizens have been in contact with the virus. These tests basically serve to understand how much infection has been present in Italy, to identify the percentage of the Italian population that has been involved and can be seen through the result of the test, which reveals the presence of immunoglobulins and antibodies, developed or not. We realize that 150,000 tests against a population of 60 million people are ineffective. There are limits also to the method, because it is absurd that we are in this House today, in Parliament, having to debate and vote on a measure that is already operational: there is nothing to approve today and to start tomorrow, because the tests are already carrying out them. Rather, as we said yesterday in this House and as I said, intervening on the motion that we tabled with colleagues from Forza Italia, it is necessary to involve at least 10% of the population, at least six million Italian citizens, in a screening that can give concrete answers to the Government and addresses on where and how to intervene, that allows us to understand where the virus has been most present and to understand the level of immunity of the population. Through these tests, we will also be able to understand how much availability there may be, on the part of those who have become ill, possibly to give blood. You know that Aifa has activated the table called Tsunami - I have often also been in contact with the Director General Magrini, whom I thank for his willingness - on the theme of plasma therapy. Tsunami is the table made up of experts identified by Aifa who must evaluate the effectiveness of experimental plasma therapy, because apparently the trials are giving excellent results, even 96 percent of patients in intensive care, in less than 48 hours, are healed: a completely unpredictable situation, because they did not react to the therapies currently used to try to heal patients from Covid-19 and instead with plasma therapy they found their life again. We have worked a lot in the Commission on plasma therapy, we have also invited De Donno, we have invited him to the Commission to explain the work and on that occasion we have confirmed what I have just said, and that is why we have proposed to take the test to 10% of the Italian population, because through the tests we can understand who has developed immunoglobulins and who is willing to donate their blood, because from a sick person we can heal a citizen, that sick person can become a healer, we can heal those who need it, those who are risking their lives today. The motion that we presented yesterday committed the Government to carry out a greater number of tests, to identify valid serological and molecular tests, which can be used quickly and non-invasively and, moreover, to realize the national plasma bank, through the Red Cross and Avis, to collect the availability of those who were sick and are cured and want to try to heal our brother who is also in hospital at risk of life. Because of its importance, the epidemiological study cannot be limited to 150,000 tests, but it needs millions of tests, not only to understand the state of immunity, but also to collect the availability of those who have been sick and have healed to give their blood to heal, through plasma therapy, those who today risk their lives. Therefore, the measure is very restrictive for us. Clearly, mistakes must be learned. We were pleased that the commitments we presented yesterday with our motion, which were then on an agenda, were accepted by the Government. However, we ask that from that agenda, in the end, appropriate measures may arise, implementing decrees capable of giving answers in this sense, because we cannot risk reopening the country, as happened now, and not to restart it because there is fear. There is a fear of not knowing how much the virus is present, of not knowing how immune we are to that virus and how many of us have been in contact with the virus, so companies and the economy can't start again. These are the effects of something you don't know: when you don't know something, you generate fear. Moreover, when will the Government ask the World Health Organization to account for all the contradictory statements of these months? The mask serves and then the mask does not serve; the gloves serve and then the gloves do not serve; the asymptomatics can infect, while yesterday we were told that perhaps the asymthomatic cannot infect. This creates terror and terror, of course, will never restart a country: we must be able to give the scientific tools to say that the country has this type of immunity, so we can leave with or without certain restrictions. We therefore need more serious work: that is what we asked for yesterday and that is what we are saying today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under discussion, which we are about to approve, envisages verifying, through the procedures for carrying out a statistical survey of seroprevalence, the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus in the Italian population. Knowing in the widest and most complete way the immune state of the population is an indispensable condition to better plan the regulatory interventions necessary for the management of the health emergency and the appropriate preventive and prophylaxis measures to counter the spread of the virus, as well as the management of any new outbreaks that should occur, in order to limit them to the best in a rapid and appropriate way and, finally, to lay the basis for an effective and ready response in the case of a possible next second epidemic wave that, in the state of things, experts and scholars can only hypothesize, considering the course of other previous pandemics. The serological diagnostic tests under examination, including those with high specificity and sensitivity, detect the presence of antibodies: the IgM, antibodies of the initial and acute phase of the infection, represent the early response of our immune system in contact with the virus, both in subjects with obvious clinical manifestations, both in paucisintomatics and asymptomatics; the IgGs, antibodies of the next phase, which persist as immunological memory. We must absolutely emphasize that serological tests only detect more or less recent contact with the virus and do not exclude the possible contagiousness of the subject. It can only be detected by the research and positivity of viral RNA with molecular tests, performed through swabs, which show the presence of the virus in nasopharyngeal secretions. It is known that there is currently no scientific certainty as to the antibodies that are being highlighted, whether they are neutralising, protective or not, and whether they persist in the long term. Serological tests are therefore important for research and epidemiology on the population, certainly not for diagnostic purposes, as are molecular tests. On the other hand, it is the WHO itself which sets out the three priority actions for the correct application of preventive measures: tracing, testing and treating. These are the three so-called "t" that are necessary in the proper management of the follow-up of the epidemic, in order to better monitor the various territories. Tracing the transmissive chain means, in short, evaluating the circulation of the virus. Serological tests are a tool to know the circulation and spread of the virus and allow to highlight the contact also in asymptomatic individuals and to evaluate the relationship and the percentage between the lethality rate of the infection compared to the number of infected by SARS-Cov-2. There is the need by the Ministry of Health and Istat for a survey of seroprevalence on a sample of 150,000 persons recruited in 2,000 municipalities distributed by gender, activity, age, geographical areas and work in compliance with privacy rules on the processing of personal data and in compliance with ethical rules. This investigation is fundamental to obtain a photograph of the real spread of the virus, allowing also to smooth out the considerable differences in the modalities and programs that the different regions have applied so far in the execution of the various diagnostic tests with reference to when, how and who to practice them. Basically, for the convinced membership and the availability of the individual citizens to carry out the haematological analyses, will be to provide the correct information both through the appropriate questionnaire prepared by the technical-scientific committee and illustrated by telephone to users by the Italian Red Cross, and above all through adequate awareness campaigns with the involvement of doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice. The programmatic choices for proper epidemiological knowledge are necessary and basic to be ready to implement the right subsequent health measures and not only that they will become indispensable in the near future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u29	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u30	Mr President, in these two or three days we are in this Chamber repeating the important and decisive issue of how we are dealing with the pandemic and the presence of this new virus that is so lethal. Even in the Commission we are increasingly wondering about the meaning of our work, which often overlaps with approvals of new decree-laws, guidelines, assessments of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and of things that represent the continuous response to the virus. It is clear that we have measured in recent weeks how the institutional system, compared to the rapid spread of the virus, has a different speed in giving answers. The democratic confrontation in the offices and the needs imposed by the speed with which the virus intervenes on the population are on different plans and, therefore, finding the right conditions I do not say to synchronize, which seems to me a big word, but to put in line our ability to discuss and to affect on the basis of the experience we collect, both through the contributions of scientists and through our personal ability to discern, is a question that certainly arises to our reflection. It is clear that a decree-law in economic matters, which enters into force on the day of signature by the President of the Republic and which has sixty days to be converted into law and to be amended by Parliament with additions and corrections, makes sense. It is equally clear that, at a time when a decree intervenes on actions aimed at combating such a fast virus, these times can inevitably be assessed as inadequate in the main phase of the emergency. I believe that we need to understand the extent of our function and how to improve the chain of command in dealing with these events. There is not only Parliament, there are also the Regions, which have a great deal in the management of health aspects and therefore I believe that a more comprehensive reflection on how our institutional system responds, has responded and can respond to events of this kind in the future is certainly an open topic, which also this decree-law puts before us. If the virus had been new and unknown, how was this, but it had not been so lethal and had not had such a disastrous impact (we must not forget all the deaths that there have been), where would we begin to systematically address this issue? We would start with a seroprevalence survey, because we start from here to give a systematic health response in terms of prevention and prophylaxis. If there had not been such a gigantic outcome from the point of view of the impact on the population, we would have addressed the issue by trying to implement choices aimed at minimizing the economic impact on the national health system. In fact, prevention means not only worrying about not making people sick, but also saving on the costs of treatment: if one does not get sick, obviously those costs are not there. If we do not understand what is the logical design behind dealing with issues like this, it is clear that today we could ask ourselves what this investigation is for and say that it does not have the right characteristics, that it does not achieve the objectives and that it could be done in another way. I believe instead that the survey of seroprevalence, which has already started, has meaning, because it is the first element of exit from an emerging approach through the beginning of a systematic approach. I believe that this is the element to be emphasized. I will conclude by highlighting a critical issue. As a political community as a whole, we must ask ourselves whether we are able to convey to the population the positive sense of direction of the path we are taking in dealing with this emergency and this pandemic. If out of 150,000 contacts respond in 17,000, this means that not only the Government, but also we have not done our work well, because we have not passed on to the population the deep sense of service to the community that this investigation of seroprevalence means in order to be able to set up a serious and scientifically based prevention work based on substantial aspects, to better address what will be the future of the presence of the virus in our community. I believe that on this, apart from the attitudes and the right and legitimate political positions, we must not go backwards; we must all be united in trying to clarify to our citizens what is the meaning of the things we do because there is a sense and direction that goes in the right direction and that we must recognise. In fact, beyond all facets and elements, fundamental questions about how to deal with a pandemic are scientifically defined. The characteristics of the virus, its dangerousness, its aggressiveness, the type of pathologies that prefers to "attack" in people may then be different from one virus to another, but the scientific community has in mind, defined and shared the way in which a pandemic is faced. And then on this main line we must be able, also as a Parliament, in its entirety, to give the right and unique signals to our people and to our citizens. Of all the measures that we have taken and that can be debated in various respects, we are faced with the decree-law and the action that, from the scientific point of view, are less discussed than all, there is the total awareness and sharing that this is the systematic approach from which to start to face the pandemic. In conclusion, I believe that, on the basis of these assessments, we should deal with the seroprevalence survey with greater conviction, promote it among our citizens, hoping that we will arrive as soon as possible at collecting data that will enable us to deal more effectively with what will be the evolution of the pandemic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u31	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u32	Mr President, Government, colleagues, let us continue the long day that began yesterday morning on a debate that very closely affects the state of health of our country. We continue, bearing in mind how ours looks like a race or rather a chase, between what establishes and translates into operational decisions the Government and what, instead, is called upon to make Parliament, which chases the Government in a logic of approval of decisions that have already started. I begin from this point of view that, in my opinion, it expresses the systematic underestimation that the Government is doing to Parliament - which I deeply regret, because I am a convinced parliamentarians - to note, for example, a figure that has already been reported this morning by several colleagues: the investigation that we will approve today has already started. We are called to realize something that already goes on its track and that is not meeting the favor of the country. I believe that we are called upon to give serious thought to this. Our country has lost 34,000 people within a month: a figure that we cannot get used to and that we cannot take for granted and that we are glad that the lockdown has somehow contracted, but 34,000 Italians are no longer there. Of these 34,000 Italians, an important and significant part is represented by elderly people and, among these elderly people, an equally significant part is represented by elderly people living in health care residences (RSA) or other such structures. This kind of investigation starts and we should imagine the country actually asking to be tested somehow. We have all suffered from very serious information that has come to us of dead people, so a diagnosis of death was made by Covid-19, without having received the appropriate tests before. Today in Brescia, outside the Civil Hospitals, a large population of people who have lost a family member in these conditions meets and do not know exactly what he had (so what he died of) nor do they know how the last days of loved ones have gone on, that is, whether they have received all the assistance and therapies to which they would have been entitled. These people complain what? Exactly this: not having had enough tests available. At this point, the investigation starts and all of us would imagine that people are happy to participate; an investigation whose sample was constructed randomly, bearing in mind four parameters: age, sex, place of origin and economic conditions (so it is said). This random sample of 150,000 people is entrusted to a reality that within certain limits we can consider above all suspicion, the Red Cross - let's still say that we don't shoot on the Red Cross - that should be a kind of transcendent value by itself, even if, unfortunately, even on the Red Cross have nested shadows, and not a few. Well, the population invited to join this survey only responds to 25%; it expresses distrust of the proposer, about the structure and the objective availability of the data at the end of the survey. It is clear that under these conditions we are called to ask ourselves some questions: why does a survey of this type not intercept the country's consent? Where did system mistrust explode (three out of four citizens)? For what reason? I reserve the right to speak again later, during the tabling of the amendments which - I should like to point out - have all been regularly rejected. I call on my fellow Members to take over the dossier, not to read it, there is no need, just look at it: the only amendments adopted, with all due respect, were those of the rapporteur; all the other amendments were taken away. And you know what the argument was? That the protocol is done so well, it is so precise and exhaustive that citizens do not need to know anything else: they must not give their consent, because it is already provided for in the protocol; they must not defend anonymity, because it is already provided for in the protocol; they must not ask if, by chance, someone in the family has been touched by the Covid-19, it is already provided for in the protocol. To the formal perfection of a protocol the Italians have already said no for a 75%. Gentlemen, some questions are worth asking! It will also be worth asking the fundamental question, important, of arrogance, of presumption, of the dogmatism with which this Government imposes decisions that, fortunately, leave us at least one right, a single right: the right to say no, but not the right to intervene, not the right to modulate, not the right to improve, not the right to dialogue. Be careful, on yesterday's day, starting from a motion tabled by the opposition, in the person of Senator Francesco Zaffini, the opposition responded with a positive adhesion of modulation of its demands to meet a politically strong and relevant objective, the objective of unity, to demonstrate to the country that Parliament is able to provide a united, cohesive, convinced and motivated response on a given problem. The opposition takes on itself the responsibility of taking the step forward with the majority: let us not forget what happened yesterday, when it was the opposition to put the motion and open the doors to inclusion against the majority to generate the system response. Today it is the decree-law: the initiative starts from the majority and closes the doors of system to whatever kind of proposal came from the opposition. Today it is the arrogance of a power that denies effective and effective dialogue to a single objective, the protection of the health of Italians. Then, on the subject, we can say if 150,000 tests were sufficient, if there are few or many, and if the telephone proposal mode is appropriate. It almost seems that we have become a call center, even if we are all tired of telephone interventions: and instead the Red Cross intervenes in this way, calling. And why the Red Cross? Simply because, at least, hearing that the Red Cross is involved and not this or that structure should create the basic benevolence and should have created the plan inclined towards consensus, a sort of moral suasion, not for its specific competence - which we do not even know, because already the structure with which the Red Cross is formed still a little 'escapes - but for the word: the word Red Cross should have been enough to act as a positive glue. It wasn't like that. There is a crisis of trust and consent, there is prevention of the anonymity of your data and the right to dispose of it for the benefit of your health, knowing its individual and strong value: these data on my health are mine and belong to me, so it is I who dispose of it according to an informed consent. But no, it's all implied. And you want the average Italian to know that everything is implicit in this? But there's a lack of basic knowledge about... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] One minute and I will finish, Mr President. There is indeed an underestimation of the serious injury that this epidemic has left in serenity, security and trust; it has left a culture of heavy suspicion, which has been totally underestimated by the majority. For the rest, do vobis: when we vote, we will vote, but we will certainly speak on our rejected amendments, which we have not withdrawn, for the pleasure of commenting and explaining them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u33	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about, I think, is well known to everyone: on the other hand, you have announced your serological investigation in all possible locations. Meanwhile, a question of method shows how little you are interested in the opinion of those who sit in these benches, because you have your scientific committees and your Arcuri, who first indicate the ban for the acquisition of serological tests (and precisely on 17 April 2020) and then you remember that there is a Parliament; and so, on 10 May 2020, twenty-four days later, passed a decree-law to find the political coverage of choices already made. By the way, instead of indicating guidelines, you provided CLIA or ELISA tests: perhaps it would have been more correct to refer to general criteria, guaranteeing certain requirements, avoiding specific names. Yes, I forgot: a new course has been set up, in which the Competition Authority is also committed to looking elsewhere, so there is a commissioner who can everything, in spite of the code of contracts, which instead applies only to Italians and Italian companies, right? [[Applause.]] Returning to the text of the decree-law that we are about to convert, did you notice that the Commissions worked for nothing? We have tabled improved amendments to the text which, even if they were acceptable, you could not accept because the investigation has already started. Is that how you intend to involve Parliament? On the other hand, today the presence of the Minister will be significant. Do you think that the Italians will not realize that you are in fact establishing a dictatorship? [[Applause]] Will they not realize that you pretend to involve minorities only to fill your mouth with terms such as sharing and participation just so that they are not taken over by the President of the Republic? The facts speak for themselves. No one discusses the goodness of the investigation, but it had to be inserted within an overall vision. What will you do with the data when processed? Do you plan to set up a national contingency plan that combines serological tests and molecular tests with screening within essential levels of assistance? Will you use them for reopenings, and maybe to get an idea of what to do in September with the school reopening? These investigations will only take a photograph of the spread of the virus in Italy, which would make sense if repeated over time, but otherwise - we all know - it loses meaning. Then you're gonna make another one, then, and you're still gonna make money for a new investigation? In these months we have listened to numerous interventions from all political forces of majority and minority on the importance of the territorial medical network and, when you have the opportunity to enhance the staff of the prevention departments, who are already trained for work to perform screening and monitoring, what solution do you choose? A contribution of 1.700,000 euros to the Italian Red Cross. [[Applause]] : association certainly meritorious, but it must not be substitute for the personnel of the prevention departments, also because now you no longer have the excuse of hiring. I would remind you that all the assumptions you are making will not be covered by European funds, whatever the formula, because Europe will finance projects, capital expenditure and not current expenditure. Would you give the citizens correct information, please? Rightly the data must be placed in an appropriate platform and you, instead of using one of the existing ones, create another, using, when it suits you, the extension of the contract currently in existence at the Ministry. You tell us that we cannot use the data from other banks, and so far it is clear and we agree. But why do you avoid integrating existing ones and continue to create new ones? Spending, spending, and still spending, without modesty. [[Applause]] Use Istat and, therefore, why not use the technology platforms they have? No: it is better to create another one and we hope at least that it will be able to dialogue with those that are already used. All this is really amazing just to imagine it. Another particularly curious aspect contained within the decree-law is the need by Istat to conclude ten self-employment contracts for the duration of six months for a total burden of 385,000 euros and, out of almost 2,500 Istat employees, you want us to believe that there are no ten people within the Institute with the requirements to process data of 150,000 test samples? [[Applause.]] As a League, we have called for the deletion of the amendment and the use of internal personnel for data processing. You failed him. Only this data speaks for itself. In the misfortune of the epidemic you are finding yourself in your hands a lot of money that none of the previous Governments has ever had; what the Italians who are at home and are in difficulty ask you is not to throw them away. Make conscious choices: it is money not yours, but of future generations. You must think about the good of the citizens and, if you really care about everyone's health, adopt criteria of accountability for all those who will use public resources. Italians need to know what you spent their money on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u35	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the ratio of the decree-law under discussion and the seroprevalence investigation envisaged by it? We talked about this yesterday when we discussed the motions: this is a piece that composes the mosaic that we all unanimously outlined yesterday as necessary for the protection of the health of Italian citizens. It serves to know precisely how the virus has circulated and is circulating on national territory; how many Italian citizens have actually been infected, since we have all heard of paucisintomatics and asymptomatics. As I said yesterday, we must therefore have a precise picture of the state of health of the citizen and of the state of circulation of the virus. We must also debunk so many myths and fake news that have circulated and are still circulating and that - in my opinion - are the reason why so many citizens are afraid to say yes when they are contacted to participate in this investigation. We've heard everything about how much the disease really has spread. There are those who say that the dead have actually been tens of times more than those really calculated and those who claim that instead they were many less, that we counted more, that we counted as death for Covid even people who died for other reasons. Then a serious state takes on all these voices and tries to give an unequivocal and authoritative answer. That's what the seroprevalence investigation is for. Even the Imperial College London has made an analysis that among the Italian population could be between two and six million infected, while we have measured and tested ten times less (we are around 230,000 infected at the moment). Where, then, is the truth: is it two million or 230,000? We want to give a reliable, serious, scientific answer to this question. That's what the seroprevalence investigation is for, which is done with a test that will tell us how many people have developed antibodies, which we talked about a long time ago. This is why you will be subjected to this type of test. We have operated with a decree-law because we are in an emergency condition from which we have not yet left and the decree-law is the instrument that the Italian Constitution makes available to intervene quickly in emergency situations. Let us not forget that for a few weeks the Senate has been authorized to convene only on urgent matters and only a couple of weeks we have resumed ordinary work. So, how could we have intervened with an ordinary procedure and so quickly? We couldn't. The only instrument was the decree-law. I therefore consider at least a little pretentious some controversy, especially on this specific subject. I understand, however, that everyone has to resort to the game of the parties and embody their own role. What we should do responsibly, given our role and function, is to make it clear to Italian citizens that they must undoubtedly participate in the investigation, that they are not at any risk and do not put at risk anything of their own. And it must be said to them that the only result that can be obtained by answering yes to the call they receive is to contribute to the collective good of the country, to do something useful for everyone, to allow us to assess precisely what is the lethality rate of this virus, and we can do this only if we know exactly how many citizens have been infected and have contracted SARS-Cov-2. All this information is useful to us to measure the next steps, to know how we need to intervene, to adequately strengthen our national health system. That is what we should all do responsibly: say with a loud voice to participate in the investigation, because there will be no harm, but only benefits. By the way, I think it is important for everyone to know whether or not you have contracted the virus and, therefore, you are, in some sense, possibly protected from infection. This investigation, in fact, as well as informing us about the spread, after science has made available to us the necessary tools, can tell us even if and for how long the antibodies we have developed can protect us from a second possible infection. So, we can only get very good information from the investigation for the protection of all of us. As a result, I repeat that it seems absurd to me that I have heard controversy over the method by which the company that provided the tests was found. An emergency procedure has been adopted, provided for in the Procurement Code and, therefore, not in breach of the Code; an emergency procedure which, in similar situations, has in recent months used all the administrations and apparatus of the State. It was not an occasional and extemporaneous choice of the Commissioner for Emergency, because even the municipalities, the provinces and the regions used emergency procedures to deal with the current crisis in a timely manner. So we should all really set aside our ideologies and flags and vote in favour of this measure, which we have all tried to improve in the Commission. And we must tell the Italian citizens to respond positively to the call of the Red Cross or of the Regions, because it is important to find together the civic sense that is proper to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u37	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u38	Mr President, I will just make a few brief comments. Yesterday we clarified the difference between molecular tests and serological tests. We said that, at the tracking stage, it should follow that of testing and how testing should be done using molecular tests, which are those that have the ability to detect the presence of the virus in the organism. We have also said, however, that serological tests are useful for the purposes of epidemiological investigations. And this is precisely the meaning of the measure under consideration, a measure that sheds light on the study of seroprevalence of the Ministry of Health, which started on 25 May. What are the strengths of this study? Perhaps they are not clear to everyone, having listened to comments that actually go in the opposite direction. First of all, it is a multicentre protocol, organized in layers of aggregation. As we have said, the sample is selected by Istat with representative criteria of the whole Italian population. Among other things, I would like to point out that it is also chosen on the basis of prevalence estimates. For example, in the Provinces where the virus prevalence is estimated to be highest, the sample is larger. This multicentre protocol, divided into layers of aggregation, allows you to select a sample from 2,000 Italian municipalities, broken down by gender and work activity, in which healthcare professionals are also included, and I say this in response to some of the amendments tabled by the oppositions. Clearly, in a study that has a purpose of seroprevalence, all healthcare professionals, representing a population at risk of infection, cannot be included because the sample would be distorted. Another important strength is the creation of a biobank of samples. In this House we often hear about research and we must be happy when, in fact, research is being enhanced. In this case, the establishment of a biobank is certainly a strong point for the research against SARS-Cov-2 virus, because the samples, precisely because longitudinal (i.e. usable also in the future), will allow a comparison between the current state of immunity of the Italian population and that of the future. There is another important aspect that I would like to highlight. An identical survey has already been carried out in several European countries - such as Spain and Sweden - in exactly the same way. This test has been chosen because it has a very high sensitivity and specificity and, among other things, for those who do not know, it is the subject of a work published in a prestigious international magazine on a very vast sample of subjects (even 1,000 individuals). Some wondered why the Italian Red Cross was used. In fact, it was the regions that asked for this task to be entrusted to a third party not only to standardise procedures, but also because they lack staff, especially in the prevention departments. We said that the study started on 25 May and, of all the regions, only four were able to use their staff in the prevention departments. That is why we had tabled an amendment, which unfortunately was not acceptable, which provided for the stabilisation of precarious health staff. Health professionals are missing - we always say this - and yet we cannot achieve the goal of stabilising those who have been working for years and has ensured that our national health system is maintained even in this emergency. Senator Binetti commented on the rejection of many of the amendments tabled. In this regard, I repeat that they provided for the inclusion of rules already laid down in the existing legislation on privacy protection, or to include within the sample a population (such as that of health workers) that would have distorted it, I would point out that in this sample health workers are one of the working classes already envisaged. Finally, to those who have said - I am referring in particular to Senator Fregolent - that the other banks could be used, I would like to reiterate once again that one of the commitments contained in the agenda approved yesterday is precisely the creation of a platform at the Ministry of Health which serves to coordinate the various data collection banks established so far. I would point out that, at the moment, the regions are generally carrying out serological tests, but on selected samples (e.g. health workers and residents of health care residences). Therefore, a seroprevalence study that must photograph the entire Italian population cannot include only the RSA sample or only that of healthcare professionals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u39	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u40	Mr President, first of all I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked on the measure that is coming to this House today. I would therefore like to thank the Health and Health Commission for the work it has done with the utmost correctness and harmony. I thank the parliamentary groups and the government and Parliament for the confrontation they have put in place. All this allows us today to begin in the Assembly the examination of a measure of significant importance, further improved compared to the text deliberated by the Government. I would therefore like to thank, on behalf of the Government, the President of the 12th Commission, Senator Collina, and the rapporteur, Senator Castellone, who have worked with the highest level of professionalism and competence, as well as all members of the Health and Health Commission. A special appreciation also goes to the work done by the Commission offices. In this regard, the decree-law in question is motivated by the absolute need for reliable and complete epidemiological and statistical studies on the immune status of the population, which is unknown to date, also because of the awareness of the difficulties of assessing the fraction of infections with Covid-19 paucisintomatic or asymptomatic that do not require medical assistance, while until now epidemiological surveillance has focused mainly on patients who have used the National Health Service, because symptomatic, suspicious or high-risk contacts of confirmed cases in specific population groups, such as healthcare professionals. The scientific community believes that it is necessary to acquire information on the epidemiological and serological characteristics that are fundamental, still little known, but indispensable in order to guarantee protection from the current health emergency and - as already noted - also for the possible possibility of a second wave. In summary, the results of the seroprevalence survey conducted will be a useful guide for strategic socio-health decisions to be taken in the coming months. Not only that: using the data collected through this survey, studies can be carried out that will also allow more accurate measurements of lethality and improve modelling efforts. Ultimately, it is trusted that the data acquired through the survey will help to better define the dynamics of transmission of the virus, but not only: it will serve for the therapies, for the cures, to protect the population and to direct our resources. Therefore, authorisation has been provided for the processing of personal data, including genetic data, related to health for statistical purposes, and scientific studies carried out in the public interest in the context of an investigation that will be carried out jointly by the competent offices of the Ministry of Health and by Istat, as holders of the treatment, each for the profiles of competence. As I have already mentioned, the work carried out in the Commission has enabled improvements to be made to the measure, which is the legal basis for carrying out this investigation, which will be carried out in compliance with the relevant ethical rules annexed to the Privacy Code and with the methodological protocol approved by the Technical and Scientific Committee, which, in full respect of the principle of transparency, is published and can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Health. When assessing the need to determine the extent of the infection in the population, Istat was authorised to identify a random sample of 150,000 individuals, stratified on a regional basis by age, gender and sector of economic activity. Operationally, the personal data and the tax code of the individuals in question are transmitted by Istat to the Ministry of Health. The latter is in turn enabled to request from the telephone service providers the contact details of the users to be traced. The Red Cross has been entrusted with the task of checking by telephone the availability of individuals to carry out the analyses and giving them a special questionnaire prepared by the Committee with the support of the Scientific and Technical Committee. The Italian Red Cross provides information in summary form on the processing of personal data, including those relating to the results of serological investigations. The information to the interested parties is published in a complete and consultable form on the institutional portals of the Ministry of Health and of the same Istat. With an amendment approved in the Commission, to further protect the parties concerned, it has been stated that in the summary information it is necessary to give an indication of how to obtain the complete information. The initiative is also accompanied by activities of communication and awareness of public opinion and those directly involved, including through its doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice and pharmacies, in order to facilitate the participation in the investigation. The samples are collected at specific picking points set up at local level, also at the units of the Italian Red Cross, or, when necessary, at home. The samples are analysed by the laboratories identified by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces and the results of the analyses carried out are then communicated to the interested party. With an amendment it has been made clear that the regions are the guarantors of such communications. In the event of a positive diagnosis, as established by the methodological protocol, the person concerned is placed in temporary home isolation, contacted by his or her Regional Health Service or ASL to make a nasopharyngeal buffer to check whether he or she is contagious. The confidentiality of the participants shall be maintained throughout the investigation. Finally, the results are transmitted by the laboratories to the Ministry of Health and Istat through a dedicated IT platform in safe ways. Thanks to an amendment, the work carried out in the context of the seroprevalence survey will be included in the annual report to Parliament by Istat. The samples collected will be kept for five years at the biological bank of the National Institute for Infectious Diseases Lazaro Spallanzani, in compliance with the guidelines for the establishment and accreditation of biobanks conducted by the National Committee for Biosafety and Biotechnology of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The preservation of samples is necessary in order to ensure that any additional serological investigations are carried out with the availability of new standardised methods; to assess the possible co-circulation of other coroviruses; to assess the effect of the presence of an antibody response to previous infections from other coronaviruses or other respiratory viruses, on the efficacy of vaccines for coronavirus and other vaccines for respiratory viruses. The biological bank identified meets international standards for sample preservation and is equipped with personnel dedicated to access control systems, high-biocontent systems and dedicated management and positioning software. The Ministry of Health is responsible for the processing of data relating to samples stored in the bank and access to data will be carried out exclusively for the pursuit of research purposes identified by the protocol approved by the technical-scientific committee in the context of joint projects with the Ministry. The Higher Institute of Health may process the data collected in the context of scientific research investigations. It has been established, with a special amendment, that this faculty is also assigned to Inail as a technical and scientific body of the National Health Service, which is entrusted with the task of protecting the psychophysical integrity of workers and of carrying out and promoting programmes of study and scientific research in the field of accident prevention, occupational diseases and the protection of health in the living and working environments. In addition to demographic variables, the seroprevalence survey is also based on the working variables needed to define the spread of the epidemic and, therefore, the risk model in the different categories of workers. Autonomous regions and provinces, where necessary for the purposes of analysis and programming in the context of the current epidemiological emergency, have access to the data of their caregivers in an individual form but without any reference that allows them to connect directly with the interested parties and to the data related to the assisted ones of the other Regions anonymously and aggregatedly, for comparative purposes only. Finally, the proposed standard entrusts the Special Commissioner for Health Emergency with the task of purchasing the appropriate devices for the execution of serological analyses, taking into account the characteristics of the tests defined by the Technical and Scientific Committee, due to criteria of high specificity and sensitivity, easy to carry out on a large scale and characterized by the rapidity of obtaining the result. It is also up to the Commissioner to ensure that all items are purchased to preserve the samples collected at the biological bank. In view of the urgency, the parties involved in the investigation in question are authorised to award public contracts through a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a notice of invitation to tender for the acquisition of goods and services, including IT services, closely related to the activity under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u41	I inform you that no amendments have been tabled to the amendments adopted in the Commission and that the deadline has expired. I call on President Pesco to report to the Assembly the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u42	Mr President, the amendments which have been adopted in the Commission and which have come to this House have all already been examined by the Budget Committee, so the opinion on all of them is of no consequence. There is only one proposal for a reformulation of a legal nature, on which there are no financial problems. In summary, therefore, the amendments all have the clearance of the 5th standing Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u43	Colleagues, at this point a 15-minute suspension is necessary. [[Comments]] Do you think it is my wish to suspend fifteen minutes or is this an objective necessity? As the deadline for submitting sub-amendments has expired a few seconds ago, we have not yet been able to collect the texts of the amendments. I therefore suspend our work for fifteen minutes. It doesn't seem dramatic to me a short break. (The sitting was suspended at 11.17 a.m. and resumed at 11.35 a.m.) The session is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, we first heard the opinion of the President of the 5th Commission on the amendments. In accordance with what was established during the examination in the referent, the Presidency declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.0.1 and 1.0.2, as they are unrelated to the object of the decree-law, cannot be proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u46	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. We are about to vote on an amendment to a decree-law, which concerns measures to combat the emergency situation that has come about with the coronavirus; since this had not yet happened on such a measure, I wanted to dwell on this solemn moment, with a good applause from the House for the fact that there is no confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u47	Thank you, Senator Romeo, but if every time we don't put our trust in applause, it would be like in the theater.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u48	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.7, 1.11, 1.14, 1.15, 1.16, 1.19 and 1.20. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendments 1.2, 1.6, 1.8, 1.10, 1.12, 1.13, 1.200, 1.17 (text 2), 1.18, 1.100, 1.21 and 1.22. Amendment 1.9 was incorporated into Amendment 1.8 and withdrawn from the Commission. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am in favour of the agenda G1,100, provided that the words are added: 'to assess the appropriateness of the agenda'. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1,101 and G1,102. I am against the draft agenda. Finally, I am in favour of amendment 1.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u49	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u50	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Lunesu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.2 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u53	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I hope that none of my colleagues has escaped, in the judgments that were given, the favourable-controversial alternation where the favourable opinion was expressed on all the rapporteur's amendments, while on all the others the opinion was opposed. I would like to explain the amendments 1.3 and 1.4 which put the House's attention to the need for special attention in the draft law to be paid to healthcare professionals in order to know to what extent those who had been in contact with patients, therefore in contact with a high-risk environment for infection, had contracted the disease or not, and at the same time extend this attention to their family members as well. They say the bill was something else. The bill may also be something else, but ours was an improvement intention, and for improvement it is not meant a mere improvement of the instrument, but an awareness towards all those who in these three months have been in direct contact with the sick and the health environments to understand how many of them have been infected and perhaps have remained asymptomatic, so we did not realize that they have contracted the virus, but precisely, having contracted it, in turn they have become subjects able to transmit it. This required an opportunity to intervene on the bill, in objective terms of interest towards health workers and their families - we know that many health workers have gone to live far away from their families in order not to be the subject of transmission of the disease - and would certainly have allowed to understand the level of exposure to the virus, therefore the level of risk of the families of health workers and what was happening. This was not only a way of saying thanks to health care professionals in a romantic and sentimental dimension (in style I thank you for what you did for me), but also to become aware of how you are moving and moved the virus and what price they paid these people, understanding the rights they have reason to claim to ensure their health to the best. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u54	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senators Binetti and Rizzotti, up to the words "serological analysis" in Italian. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.4. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Fregolent and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u57	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we insist on the adoption of this amendment, which sees the valorisation of the prevention departments, in a logic that should be that of the whole majority, because we must be consistent and congruent with what is said. Therefore, if we talk about valorization, with reference to the medicine of the territory, we must also do so for the prevention departments, putting them in a position to do their work, so that they can do monitoring or screening, without dispersing additional resources of all Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u58	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Fregolent and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.8 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.9 is therefore incorporated. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.10 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u61	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the amendment before us was tabled by Mr De Bonis and I signed it in the Commission, making it mine. It seems to me very useful to draw everyone's attention to it. I would like you to at least read it and take note of it. After that the majority will vote against and we will vote in favour of this amendment for a very simple reason: the survey of the genetic data of the population, linked to whether or not a person has put up with the serological test, runs the risk of becoming very penetrating in the subject's intimate life, without the subject himself having full awareness of it, nor has he given an explicit consent, especially when it comes to children. That is a fact, gentlemen, on which I at least invite you to reason and reflect. We deliver our genetic code to investigate SARS-Cov-2 influence. From this point of view tomorrow they will be able to ask us anything for any reason at any time, having all our data without ever being asked for consent afterwards because we gave it a priori, without knowing what we were giving consent to. [[Applause.]] Relating the delivery of your genetic code to someone for a serological investigation seems really excessive, we could say how to shoot on the Red Cross or how to shoot a cannon on a very particular data. It is truly an abuse of the penetration of personal data. I hope at least people are aware. Let's not be surprised if an Italian in four says no to the test because he doesn't want to deliver his genetic code. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u62	I would pray to those who must intervene to do so from the places specifically indicated by our Senator Commissioner, who is here to give you all the help possible and imaginable. I would also pray to those who are close to the speakers who can speak without mask to remember that instead it is mandatory to wear it, especially close to those who do not use it, at least as long as the experts tell us that it is necessary (which is also called into question). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.12 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.13, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Marin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u65	(at 12:01 p.m.) BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this amendment refers to something that may seem trivial to most of the senators present in this House, but to some it may seem significant. It concerns the fact that, with the beginning of phase 2, everyone has returned to family life. So even those who had somehow isolated themselves to protect their family members, in fact, have around them a sort of pillow of people, generally loved ones, who are exposed to the risk of contact with them. In this case, the amendment says this: if you are positive, you could be asymptomatic positive and, therefore, you could belong to that category of people who have contracted the virus but, having had no clinical symptoms, as such have not been recognized. At the moment, however, when, to the test of the facts, subjected to the serological test, you are positive, then you have to take an investigation that also involves your family, because, probably, your family had no idea that you were positive, but, therefore, had no idea of the risk that was taking. This amendment simply says this: let us not treat someone who does a serological test as a number, but treat him as a person; let us treat him as a person who may, in turn, be an integral part of a family unit. Therefore, we extend the attention of care, not only the attention of data collection, typical of the serological test, but the attention to those who intend to take care of the people who have been exposed to the virus, so as to complete the investigation, to involve the family and to know if there are, in that context, other people who can be positive even if equally asymptomatic, like the subject that we have just tested. With regard to all this, I have been told in the Commission that this aspect is already included in the protocol. I went to check and, in the protocol, this is not there, because the protocol is centered on a data collection, and not on a seizure of asymptomatic patients. In this case, I believe that the concern about the country, that threat that hangs on our heads, that is the threat that in September there may be a revival of this epidemic, could also be occasioned by asymptomatic patients who are around and that we have not identified, neither them nor their nuclei of origin. I consider this an omission in the protocol; I consider it a lack of attention to the person; I consider it an imprudence on the clinical, scientific and even procedural level.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u66	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,15, tabled by Senators Binetti and Rizzotti, until the words "are obliged." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.16 are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.17 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,18, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Marin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission gave its opinion subject to a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u69	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we renew the call for amendment 1.20 to be accepted. It really seems paradoxical to me that within the Istat you can't find ten people who can process the data of 150,000 tests. I remember that Istat has almost 2,500 employees; therefore, throwing away 385,000 euros really seems to me a waste of resources and an insult to our citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u70	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Fregolent and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission, which fulfils a condition laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.21, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.22, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I ask Senator Fattori if he accepts the rewording of the agenda G1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u71	The G1100 agenda, together with the motion I tabled yesterday, is precisely a call for serious consideration to be given to meat farms and meat production centres. I have also presented this agenda in the form of a question to both Mr Catalfo and the Minister for Agriculture, because it concerns an issue which has an impact not only on the industry but also on the economy of the sector. It is clear, in fact, that if it happens in Italy what happened in other countries, given the difficulties that already characterize our agro-food sector of the meat, let alone what would happen if we did not have to control what happens in the meat production centers. I would add another element, namely that the operators we have forgotten about in all this emergency are those of the large distribution: the cashiers and all those who guaranteed the supply of food during the epidemic. I am sorry to see that these subjects are not included in the categories at risk in any decree or motion. In accepting therefore the proposal of rewording "to evaluate the opportunity," I ask the Government to take the matter seriously and not to deconstruct it as one of the many agendas of the day in which the Government considers, precisely, the opportunity. We play the health of people who have unfortunately seen themselves put aside a bit, I refer to the orders and to all the operators of the fruit and vegetable sector. I know that these professions may not seem as noble as the nurse's, but they are people who have witnessed us and put themselves at risk. Please, therefore, include them in the categories at risk. I thank the Minister for accepting this agenda in this form as well. Although it has already been accepted in the Commission, I have also had to say in this House that I accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u72	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100 (text 2), G1,101 and G1,102 will not be put to the vote. I would ask Senator Binetti, as the second signatory, if she insists on voting on the agenda G1.103. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). I'm not going into it, I'm going to withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 are unacceptable. (Senator Grassi asks to intervene.) Senator Grassi, you should kindly speak to a microphone, because I do not hear it and neither does the Assembly. If the problem is that he has not been able to vote, get closer to the Presidency bench and the Secretary Senators will collect his vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u75	Members who are moving away do so in accordance with the distances and the senator who is intervening. Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, we will shortly be voting on the final conversion to law of a decree of the Government of 10 May 2020, No 30, which brings, as we all know, urgent measures on epidemiological studies and statistics on SARS-Cov-2, which is therefore an important and essential issue at this time of the pandemic. What is the purpose? As we have all mentioned, with different accents, the aim is to investigate the immune state of the population, therefore an indispensable objective, because we all know that this virus is almost unknown to the world scientific community. We think only of the goodness of a survey of this kind to understand the degree of incidence of asymptomatics or paucisintomatics: each of us daily is afraid of being in contact with those who have no symptoms, but have the disease. Science is also recently deepening the issue of the degree of contagion of the asymptomatics themselves, but it is we politicians who, naturally having to follow science step by step, who also in the world is being compared on this unknown virus, we have the task of making decisions and deciding on an epidemiological investigation is a topic that concerns politics. As the Undersecretary mentioned earlier, the task of politics is also to ensure the health planning of the future. We are talking about 150,000 people who will be subjected to the serological test, divided by age, sex and territory, with a prevalence of the territories most affected, as the rapporteur recalled. Let us think, for example, of how much we politicians can go further, when we have this data - because this is also the task of politics - the issue of the interaction between climate and the incidence of the disease. There are scientific studies in this regard and we will have the task of deepening this issue. This survey must therefore provide us with data on the epidemiological and serological characteristics that are unknown and data that are essential to ensure protection from this terrible pandemic. We have heard in this House statements by the opposition in which we have been told that the population has little support for the investigation. In the meantime, I think it is appropriate to clarify the 175,000 phone calls and the failure of many people to join. It's not exactly like that. As it turns out, the phone calls are indicative of who has the telephone number - and the Red Cross has phone numbers - but not of how many answers have been given: not all phone calls have been made at the moment, so it is very important that Parliament is aware of the progress of the investigation. However, before once again putting the cross on the citizens and the citizens, who are very sad, very worried and very anxious like all of us about the situation, I think - as we said yesterday here in the House about the motion on serological tests - that the Government must make a very strong collaborative pact with the Presidents of the Region so that this investigation can have an important realization: I am talking about the Presidents of the Region of all political groups. With reference to what we said yesterday, on the occasion of this terrible pandemic we took advantage of the theme of the State-Regions relationship: it is time to resume the ranks precisely for the purposes of this investigation. Secondly, we need to work much more, we need to make a pact - the government, but Parliament should also do its part - for greater involvement of basic doctors and pediatricians to give information to citizens and citizens. In this regard, we discussed yesterday the need to provide correct information to citizens about the difference between swabs and serological tests. How do we explain, in fact, that so many citizens are going to private laboratories themselves to perform the serological test - which is not diagnostic, so it is clear that many people have little information - and would not adhere to this initiative instead? We are talking about an initiative that must mean institutional responsibility, broadening the protagonism of doctors and giving more information to citizens. I therefore believe that the government must make a more detailed and comprehensive institutional communication because, as the President of the Collina Health Commission said very well, this investigation has a value of public good and, as such, the institutions, that is, we, must take it, disseminate it and make it understood by accompanying citizens and citizens in this important initiative. We in the majority would have improved the measure, especially - as the rapporteur pointed out - on the issue of the stabilisation of social and health workers, of which this epidemic has shown its importance in a striking way. That was not the right measure, but that is the commitment. I would appeal to the opposition: let us take back the spirit of yesterday when we all voted together on the motion because splitting up on a serological investigation that is public good is not exactly what citizens expect of us politicians. I understand the many points made, but I think it is essential, as the opposition says, that Parliament resumes its central role and, then, let us take it back on a serious monitoring of this investigation. We're trying to ask the government to step up in Parliament on how the investigation is going. I say: Let's trust you. I believe that the country at this important stage needs a lot of confidence: let us trust an institution like ISTAT (surely able to carry out investigations of this kind); let us trust the Red Cross (which had the task of involving people by telephone); let us trust our fellow citizens. We also raise our heads as parliamentarians and ask the Government to make this institutional pact, so that the investigation can go on and why we, as Parliament, keep monitoring this investigation. I think it is important to give confidence to citizens and to give a responsible example as politicians, both of majority and opposition, so that the pain experienced - and which we continue to live on - can be remembered in us and can raise the country. For these reasons, the Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I. It will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u78	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing a subject of a technical and health nature and I am obviously leaving - because I appreciate this - from the speech by President Collina, who has, for his part, tried to reconstruct the picture of a situation that sees us once again divided and with ideas that are quite distant. I'm starting with a consideration from President Collina. I understand that he bitterly acknowledges the fact that such a modest fraction of the sample has responded in the fifteen days Istat is working. He attributes this to a lack of communication and awareness. President Collina, as I anticipated, I appreciate your words; but in reality, if it is a communication problem, I believe that all this can be addressed in the fact that Italian citizens no longer believe anything that the Government says, because it has said so many, it has done so messy and with so little confidence that, even when in some circumstances it says something important (as happened to the famous Pierino and the wolf) unfortunately, the possibility and the propensity to listen by citizens is now prejudiced. But I'll add more. In fact, this test encounters problems that are inherent in the intrusiveness of the withdrawal. It is absolutely natural that the requested people have some resistance to having an invasive test, which involves a venipuncture. It comes back to me how many times we have discussed the need to make available non-invasive instruments to do this famous screening, which we included yesterday in the document voted unanimously by this House. This is the theme and it is absolutely natural. The same goes for the swab; I heard a lot of people saying that they didn't want to do it because they told them it bothers them or because they don't like to get put in their throats the cotton fioc used for the withdrawal. All this is within a framework; it is the Ministry that must make this assessment, which paradoxically was very fast instead. I appreciate the speed with which Abbott tests are validated. We would have hoped that, with the same speed and with the same capacity, the entire technical chain upstream of the Ministry would have given birth to a method that we are asking for from the beginning of March. It is in fact from early March that we are talking about a means useful to carry out a deep screening on the presence of the virus in the population; this cannot be done through statistical games or operations that remind much of polls and electoral projections. I say this to all of us: apart from the latest phenomena that have arrived, anyone who has been political for a long time knows the difference between a survey, a projection and the results that come out of the ballot boxes, that sometimes disprove the projections (in fact, they almost always disown them, even the most in-depth ones). This, ladies and gentlemen, is a survey of seroprevalence based on a statistical game, which personally does not reassure me at all. I am not one of those who think that, with 150,000 tests out of 60 million inhabitants, you can go and track the presence of the virus in the population; it is a fake news and it is right that Italians do not believe us, also because it follows a series quite fed by additional fake news. So, we're not surprised if this invasive test, compromised by a Conte-style communication and that in the end you don't understand what it's for, doesn't match. The problem is that it costs EUR 5 million; just like that, five million, just to please. The only real investigation that revealed a very important element, that is to say that more than half of the infected were without symptoms, was the investigation of Vo' Euganeo; a massive survey of the entire population of an outbreak confined to a municipality, made with swabs. As a result of that investigation we finally knew - which was unknown until then to the scientific community - that the virus, among the many things that we did not understand about it, is largely asymptomatic. The example given by Vo' Euganeo's investigation must suggest what kind of investigation we need to do. I've gotten tired of telling colleagues all over the place, that they understand and they can't help but understand, that everything else is boring and wasting time. In my opinion, undersecretary Sileri, it is certainly an instrument that can make a very modest contribution. I've made an example of poll projections. Surely it's a tiny piece of a puzzle of 5,000 pieces; that's it, it's not more than that. And so with respect to this, to the cost that we support, to the forces put on the field, to the fact that we have involved Istat, Red Cross and so on, I consider it a means and a weapon of mass distraction from the real great problem; a sort of panem et circenses to be fed to the mainstream, to the official communication, to those who have to say in some way that the Government has done everything there was to do. In practice, however, the result that it brings is absolutely modest and does not put us at all away from the real big problem, which is to identify where this damn virus is, putting aside those who manifest the symptoms, because in that case it is all too easy to understand that there is. It's where the symptoms lie. Where the symptoms aren't supposed, this investigation doesn't tell us if there's a virus. Don't worry, he won't tell us. This is an appreciable statistical exercise, but it remains so. I shall conclude by saying, of course, that Brothers of Italy voted against the measure. At first, in the Commission, we abstained from voting. We could have considered abstaining in this House too, because it is not a matter that will go down in history; none of us will go down in history, neither who voted against nor who voted for it. We could therefore have considered abstaining in this House, but you have never heard anything, not even the simplest and most trivial things, those that Senator Binetti or Senator Fregolent told us. I did not even table amendments because I knew they would be useless. This is not nice, it is not correct, it is not part of the Senate's tasks and it does not help to give back a role to it and to the parliamentary institutions. By virtue of this, our vote will be against. We hope that in the near future there will be better opportunities - starting from the statements of Minister Hope, which will take place this afternoon - to be able to share to some extent something else than the absolutely positive sharing that we managed to complete yesterday with the motion unanimously adopted by this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u81	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly because we had this debate in the end yesterday too. I would like to say to my colleagues in the opposition, in relation to the debate, that we are approving a statistical serological survey. In the objections of the oppositions I listened to admirable arguments, but they are not in this choice of serological investigation. I'll explain. For example, Senator Binetti, with competence, first discussed an amendment on the possibility of extending the serological investigation to health service workers. It is right, so much so that, as Senator Binetti knows very well and better than I do, many Regions are doing the serological investigation of the employees of the Health Service. From this point of view it is not fair to upload on this choice that we take today those elements that have been emphasized. Senator Zaffini, with whom I often discuss willingly, tells us that it is not enough. It goes without saying, it is right: it is not enough; this investigation is not enough, we know it. Yet, this investigation, like every time an epidemiological research is carried out, Senator Zaffini, in its statistical value has the possibility to give us directions - this yes - on how to proceed. Moreover, to help our comparison - for me there is always a comparison; never the confrontation a priori - I would like to say that even the swabs have elements of criticality. In fact, if I go to the lab to take a swab, I walk out of the lab and meet an asymptomatic, I'm at risk of being infected; right? It is clear, then, that it is not possible to imagine that there can be a permanent mapping of the entire Italian population because - attention! - I can contract the virus after taking the swab, which will be negative, if I meet immediately after a positive person. So, what's the strategy? It's the strategy they used at Vo', you're right, Senator, but there we were faced with a punctual situation, a Municipality of 2,000 people, we had an outbreak, we intervened massively and we managed to govern the situation. In this sense, the statistical survey can serve to have the tools to manage the outbreaks with the famous 3T. After that, isn't that enough? Of course, we have voted unanimously on an agenda in this House in which the government has committed itself to seven important points. Yesterday I pointed out that, in my opinion - and let me also make this clear with regard to the Group - the Government and the Ministry of Health must nevertheless give answers on what types of tests and test strategy are being carried out, knowing, ladies and gentlemen - and you all know this - that the scientific debate is absolutely not resolved on this point, as you know. This is why the Government must decide and it is not possible for each Region to do so in its own way, because at that point we do not have the facility to govern the processes. We shall have the opportunity to proceed with this debate and to make further progress. From this point of view, let us never forget that we are inside a story that forces us to learn on the way. I am convinced, as I have said several times in this House, that we will also have to reason on the mistakes made to learn, because from this point of view we still have to learn, as has been seen in Italy and in all the other countries in which this dramatic emergency has been addressed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u84	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I too agree with what my colleagues have said, with whom I agree that I am a member of the Health and Health Commission. It is almost three days when we are talking about what has happened in these very important months and which must be dealt with here, in Parliament. Today we are converting Decree-Law No 30 of 2020, which dates back - I repeat - to 10 May, a month ago, because there was an urgent need to do so. The epidemiological investigation, which actually started on 25 May, could not wait and could not wait for the time that politics also gives itself: it was therefore necessary for the emergency and the urgency of the additional reliable data that we need. There will be a survey prepared by ISTAT that will certify data, with special samples on classes of persons, ages and different work activities. This will really allow us to photograph the present situation, and not in three months, as it could have been if we had had to prepare a measure, to be presented then to the Assembly of the House or Senate. Now we had to do this thing, so in my opinion the government did well to anticipate it with a decree-law, which here is really very useful. This survey of seroprevalence, which is epidemiological in nature, will provide us with a certain model - because, as I said before, the data are important in science - on which then to create and build a programming, not only as far as our health system is concerned, but also to understand by what other ways to make decisions. It is a job that will give politics the opportunity, this time, to decide with certainty. It is true that, as we have said these days, we have seen many stops and go, such as the WHO this morning, which told us that asymptomatics are not dangerous, while there has been a return of other virologies. These ideas that go against each other really create confusion in the citizens, figure yourself in us that we have the important responsibility of legislators to make the final conversion into law. These investigations, as I said, are important because - as Mrs Castellone said - they are also being carried out in other European countries, with whom you have seen how much we have been compared (with reference to how many swabs they have made in Denmark, Spain or France). This will allow us to have data that will certainly be compared, as the surveys of Spain and Sweden are also doing. It is therefore important for us to have this data, also because policy in this case, as we said before, is afraid that citizens will not join. It is true that citizens are subjected to various phone calls, but we too have a responsibility to help them make choices. The fact that we agree to participate in this investigation, because we know that the sampling was done by Istat with its own investigations, assessing on a case-by-case basis, the region and age, will give the possibility to those who are selected to give their contribution. It is not mandatory, of course, but the citizen must make civic sense. All of us must have civic sense, the welfare of the whole community is at stake: it is about being altruistic for the good of all. For this reason, messages were also sent, which you will have seen, in the form of television commercials. We can do a lot, but if we do not believe ourselves, it is difficult for our citizens to say that they are happy to do so. With regard to the ways in which this investigation was organised - with whom to do it and with which actors - I have heard colleagues say that the public health departments were to be used. Of course, but where are there no such departments what do we use? It was precisely the regions that asked to use other staff because if you have to make a withdrawal to a chosen patient, maybe at home, who goes? It's not personal. This is an issue that we will have to address in the near future, trying to further implement territorial health, including the public health departments, which unfortunately are now scarce, or rather, in some regions there are and in others there are not. With regard to respect for privacy, the Government, Istat and the Ministry of Health have worked with the Privacy Supervisor - beyond this institution I believe there is nothing else - and following European guidelines as guidelines. In this area too, therefore, I think we can rest assured. All this is aimed at having reliable and complete data on the immune status of the population also due to the awareness and difficulty of assessing the fraction of infections of asymptomatics that do not require medical assistance. How could we intercept them? If a patient resorts to health care then it is interceptable in view of its positivity, but asymptomatic people who do not need to be, neither hospitalized (thanks to them) nor supervised are impossible to find. We have to look for them, and that's what this investigation is for. The investigation also serves to have the possibility to strategically review the actions to be put into practice later, that is precisely why we need it: to try to allocate the funds that will arrive, on which they are working in the House. I really hope that the resources for our health care system are substantial. This would give us the opportunity, in fact, to plan better, not to use the funds themselves improperly. This is also another important aspect that will be useful. Among other things, this survey will also allow us to understand another important fact on which my colleague Elena Fattori spoke, which expressed her concern about a particular professional category, that of the people who work in the slaughter of animals. In fact, the survey will also be used by INAIL (who deals with accidents at work) to identify - thanks to an amendment that we have approved - those occupational classes that are at greatest risk. We have always taken account - and we will never stop thanking them - of the health professions, but there are many other professions that can be considered at risk. This investigation will also help us in this respect. Monitoring will therefore allow us to redesign the geographic map of the contagion. It was also important to identify more citizens in certain regions. For example, in Lombardy 30,000 citizens have been identified, in Veneto 13,000 (definitely less), in Emilia-Romagna 12,000 and so on up to 4,000 citizens in the Valle d'Aosta region. This is a reasoned investigation. Istat - which has a competence of which we must not doubt - has made it possible to identify the participants in the survey by category, age, geographical location and severity index, even taking into account the patients of the pandemic phase. Only by carrying out this investigation can we really understand the answers to be given and that even now the scholars unfortunately do not have, as I said before. It will therefore enable us to prevent future mistakes, to mitigate the risk of the most exposed classes by preparing the most vulnerable citizens, because we must not always be alerted. Now, thank God, the virus is giving us a little bit of a break, so we must also have the opportunity to reassure our citizens, but I repeat once again that we must always do it with care, with tranquillity, without frightening them. With regard to the measure under discussion, however, I have to say that the only bitterness I have experienced was when Amendment 1.0.2 was declared inadmissible, which, among other things, had also been tabled by the rapporteur. I believe that we could have given an important signal at the moment, that of the stabilisation of health workers, which is improperly treated differently from the public administration. I will take care to check whether there is an amendment in the relaunching decree-law, which is being examined in the House, which needs to be approved in order to find a solution of continuity with what we are saying. We need to make sure that health care really has all the means available; we will have more, but those that are now need to be stabilised. Apart from this personal bitterness, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u87	STABLE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we are absolutely in favour - who could not be? - as well as the serological texts - of which the usefulness has been repeated today - as well as the epidemiological and seroprevalence investigations. It is not we who support the validity of these instruments but science, as has been mentioned several times in this House today. One thing, however, is the theoretical validity of the tests other is the practical situation. We see that this study is perhaps even risking failure if the citizens called upon to participate do not make themselves available. It is said that they should of course be involved, that we should involve, convince, inform, but citizens are well aware, first of all from the experience of the last few months, that we have had a health system in difficulty for a long time and that therefore it has not been efficient in this situation either. Therefore, there is a concern of the citizens. If we tell them that by doing the test they are not risking anything, that is not the case: correctly, after the test, in case of positivity the swab should be made. Citizens have experience - and word goes on - of the fact that the buffer can often be expected for days: it is done in twenty-four hours, but laboratories are often unable to provide an answer before a week or ten days. Therefore, if the system is not able to respond adequately to the needs of timeliness, citizens will of course be discouraged and taken part, also because while waiting for the result of the buffer the citizen would remain in isolation, therefore without the possibility of working, perhaps even without the possibility of living in the family if conditions do not allow it. This has certainly created a situation of loss of confidence in health facilities in recent months and probably this loss of confidence also has other reasons. We now say that we should explain and inform, but in fact in all these months what information our citizens have had, considering that they are often also educated and able to understand and that there are also healthcare professionals? The information we received was limited to providing data, for example, of deaths, of cures and of positives only on a regional basis: of the Provinces were known only the data of the total contagions, that is, a citizen could not know what happened in his city or in his Province. This does not encourage and certainly does not stimulate involvement and trust in the Government (I refer, of course, to those who propose these things). We know that a large part of the cases, more than half of them, have occurred in hospitals, health facilities and care and residential facilities for the elderly. This data is reported by the Higher Institute of Health, but correct and complete information on this has not been given. So neither people nor health workers were able to know what was going on in their hospitals. No complete and comprehensive information has ever been given about the infections of the patients inside the hospital. To give another example, for the programming of phase 2 there was a document, presumably produced by the Higher Institute of Health and the Kessler Foundation (the one that led to the maintenance of many phase 2 closures), which has never been made public. It appeared in the press without header, without signature and without bibliography. Once again, there is another aspect to the problem of healthcare professionals. After months when health workers have asked to know the situation of infections in hospitals and health facilities, this time we have asked to carry out serological tests on operators and families, because many infections of origin from health environments obviously will have occurred also in the families of the operators. This time, too, the majority have said no. It would have been an opportunity, also to deepen, from an epidemiological point of view - obviously no one has proposed to pollute the sample - an important aspect of this epidemic, since more than half of the contagions take place in health and care facilities for the elderly. In the face of all this, in order to achieve collaboration and trust it is necessary to deserve it with full involvement and information. The risk here is that we invest or spend or hope for EUR 5 million for an investigation that would be likely to prove, not only limited or only initial as has been said, but even bankrupt. For these reasons, the vote of Forza Italia will be against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u90	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cantù, yesterday in this House, explained the reasons for our discontent, specifically how we could have planned the management, the management booth and the actions to be taken and the instruments to be used before. In the 12th Health and Health Commission, we have heard about this bill for hours and hours of luminaries, professors, presidents of various bodies, people invited, but also uninvited. And what did we understand? Very little. We still don't know the aetiology of the phenomenon. Was it the bat? There's no certainty. Did it go through the pangolino? Opinions are discordant. It is true that no one among the auditors answered my questions: how can a virus, whose infection occurs through the airways, be transmitted to man by bat or mediated by pangolin. Attention, airways. Someone tried to explain that the poor winged creatures of the night contain many viruses: but I guess they always contained them. Other experts have explained that these viruses may have been conveyed through bat excrements: but excrements are not volatile substances. Then explain to me how it is possible to be infected through the airways. From this dubious theory of excrement begins a long theory of various media hypotheses, ranging from the environment too polluted to chemical trails, to bovine flatulence. The most authoritative theory still today is based on the assumption that the deadly invisible enemy hits the airways through the nasal cavity, the mouth and perhaps, by contiguity, even the eyes. No one in the government knew that the virus would be so devastating; no one still understands why it weakened. Then how can it be said that it will be resumed in the autumn? [[Applause.]] During the auditions we discovered that in some cases Covid also affects the gastrointestinal system. Therefore, this leads us - it must lead us - to deep reflections. Since January you have been excellent depiracy and, so, while Civil Protection punctually updated us on deaths (frightful numbers), in the Department of mental health they were still invited psychiatrists and all the staff not to wear masks because they could worry patients of already difficult management. [[Applause.]] They ridiculed our concerns, especially mine. While Professor Meluzzi explained to the Health and Health Commission the obvious mental involvement, from the benches of the same Presidency he was puffed and incited to cut short with significant gestures; they were ironic jokes about the choice of the auditor, as a psychiatrist. Mr President, I am now trying to explain to the Presidency of this House and to my fellow senators from other committees here today my concerns about this inconsistent decree-law. The first symptoms that may even anticipate respiratory symptoms consist in loss of taste and smell, which have nothing to do with the respiratory system and lungs, instead affecting the central nervous system. A study by the University of Cincinnati, in a sample of 725 Italian patients, found clear cases of stroke, seizures and heavy headaches. An authoritative magazine published a research carried out in China, where there was no shortage of the sample, in which it is said that the Covid is present in the brain and in the cerebrospinal fluid. This not only shows that there could be significant neurological complications, but even a clinical picture that seems to take on a systemic pattern. Yet no one has ever mentioned this in the first evening on television, nor in the Health and Health Commission. Mr President, I would also like to stress that I have received too many non-answers from the auditors, but among the most bizarre responses from government consultants and commissioners Covid I have heard that the central nervous system is not affected, because only olfactory bulbs that are not in the central nervous system are involved. Nobody has faked it, yet many colleagues are doctors. Mr. President, aren't they going to make us believe that the olfactory bulbs are in the lungs? [[Applause.]] So, that unnecessary extension of the telencephalic structure found in the two hemispheres and, which is not a theory about our brain, will it be a peculiarity of the League? Is it not Salvini's fault that they "migrants" upstairs? After that, perhaps you should have promoted autopsies rather than penalised them. [[Applause]] Now the coup de grace has arrived in the Chamber; good, congratulations. Decree-Law No 30 on epidemiological and statistical studies has already proved to be a flop before arriving in the Chamber. But didn't your statisticians explain that at least 600,000 of them must be contacted in order to have 150,000 subjects available? A fall from the pear. It is a decree-law that advances the purpose of acquiring information on the clinical characteristics of the virus and its lethality. Let me understand: in practice we are discussing a decree-law to authorize the health system to play a role that already plays and that already belongs to it by law. But what do you think our health personnel have done to date if they do not continue and exhausting battle against the virus, in the front line, without weapons and without tools? Do you have any idea how many tests have already been tested at a crazy pace in our hospitals? However, in order to sample without criteria 150,000 shot souls we want to create a specific platform, bionic, so eventually in the future we can also test the Martians. There is the technical data sheet that doesn't have anything: a list of expenses, a quote to activate the platform. It is known that the pentastellated colleagues do not move leaf that platform they do not want. [[Applause]] I would have expected from the government a technical vision in the strict sense, such as the description of the procedure for choosing the national supply. Did you think that with a sample of 2,000 positives and 2,000 negatives we could obtain a reliability value in one day, with only 4,000 subjects, also guaranteeing a margin of error of the estimation and sensitivity and specificity of the tests? The absurdity of this decree-law is greatly amplified when we read that, instead of recognizing to doctors, nurses, biologists and health workers the precious work, rather than encouraging their scientific work, and "refilling" their self-denial economically recognizing it, we want to involve the Italian Red Cross, perhaps even with our blessing. Then explain to me: why did you spend EUR 4 million to activate the Ministry of University and Research? In addition to civil protection, you also need crucirosins that will cost Italians 1.7 million euros. Our health system does not need space platforms, useless task forces, but money immediately and in the "tasch" of Italians and hospitals, instead of sending them NAS. You have ruled out Parliament. In this sense, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione party will vote against the decree-law on our examination. He'll vote no and a thousand times no. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u93	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, representative of the Government, the ratio of this bill of conversion to the Decree-Law of 10 May 2020, No 30, which contains urgent measures on epidemiological studies and statistics on SARS-Cov-2, is to gain more knowledge of the epipandemic and how the virus is disseminated to the Italian population. It is an epidemiological study and as such the results must be understood. It has been reiterated several times that the results of the examination cannot be considered diagnostic data, but only data for an epidemiological study. This is an important point. The epidemiological studies are fundamental and relevant for proper and appropriate health planning, to establish well the measures of the interventions to be taken in relation to the various diseases and are studies aimed at a correct approach in terms of disease prevention: they serve to implement those health measures that either reduce the presence of the disease or mitigate its impact. Epidemiology is an important branch not to be overlooked and is part of the medicine of prevention and medicine of the territory, in that field of our medicine that has unfortunately been a little neglected in recent years. I would first like to point out the importance of this study. It has been said several times that a number of 150,000 individuals is insufficient to give a correct and adequate representation of what is happening in the Italian population. It's not like that. If you consult the statisticians, they can easily tell you that the number counts up to a certain point: the statistical models built well can represent, even with minimal marginality of errors, large numbers with narrow numbers. The important thing is that certain criteria are used, which in this case are obviously respected, such as gender, age classes, places of residence and, of course, work aggregations. It is an investigation, as I said, not to be considered diagnostic but of seroprevalence, because serums are titrated and analyzed for the search for specific antibodies against coronavirus. The survey must give a projection of prevalence, which is that statistical index that informs us of the relationship existing between the subjects in a given time period (this is important) that present a certain event, a certain pathology, and the rest of the population. As has been said several times, this is necessary to have more knowledge and certainty, because we know that a share of non-symptomatic or paucisintomatic individuals is not recorded as sick, but obviously participates in the contagion and perhaps the most important part. Knowing therefore what is this percentage of individuals, knowing well the contagion, the spread and the modalities of contagion, as I said, will allow us to build and activate resources that can most effectively counter a possible - hopefully not - resumption of the epidemic. Another important issue that has been highlighted is the cedibility of our data, especially our genetic data. It is true, it is an important factor, but it must be stressed that this is obviously important for the purposes of a scientific study. It is just a matter of repeating that the total sensitive data will be stored in a bank of the Ministry of Health, because peripherally they will be used exclusively numerical identifiers, which will therefore take away from most of the actors involved in this study the possibility to come to know or approach the personal data and other sensitive data. It has been pointed out that membership has not been optimal and the Government has almost been reprimanded for this lack of membership. Personally I do not agree with and I do not acknowledge any faults to the Government which, indeed, is a worthy part in implementing this measure. I believe that the lack of membership is due to a reduced possibility of informing the population accurately, given the short period of time. I'd like to report a case that seems very similar to me. In the early years of my career I happened to have to make repeated information and awareness interventions about a practice and a method that today is widely diffused, which has contributed so much to combating cancer diseases: I am referring to screening interventions. When in the eighties the screening of the most frequent cancer diseases began to be promoted throughout Italy - i.e. breast cancer, colon cancer and others - in the first months and in the first years the population's membership was not exactly optimal, it was not that expected. With the passage of time, however, there were increasing percentages of membership, so much so that today some interventions in some regions of Italy have joined even more than 90 percent by the population and this thanks to the diffusion of knowledge of the importance and importance of these interventions. In the light of what Senator Collina has just said, I would urge all of us to promote in our territories an appropriate campaign of knowledge and awareness of our citizens, so that they can also understand the importance of these studies and, in particular, of this epidemiological study. I would also like to remind you that the intervention of the Red Cross, as the rapporteur, Senator Castellone, has said, has been requested by the regions, most of which did not have availability and resources of staff to be employed in this event, because it is still committed to facing obviously the emergency and urgency of Covid. It is, among other things, a third-party body known to all, which guarantees absolute reliability and safety and which, moreover, in some regions, is also committed to carrying out home examinations for the disabled or disabled and this is not an indifferent or minor fact. I would add that the investments we have made in this last period, but also in the past, for the recovery of health have always been a firm point for us, for our political components and for our allies. Over the past five months we remember that more than 8 billion euros have been committed to health care, but regardless of this emergency already in the financial year 2019 and 2020 we were committed to strengthening both hospital structures and outpatient territorial structures. We had increased the number of scholarships and specialization because we immediately realized that we had to solve the "cap" that was created in the training, because we have doctors in adequate numbers, but the specialists are insufficient. Personally in my last years of career I have witnessed competitions that have gone deserted just because the participants were missing. In all we have increased the specialization grants by 4,000 units and it is not a matter of secondary importance. For the Movement, it is necessary to strengthen the National Health System, especially in the field of public medicine, both in the hospital aspects and in the territorial aspects. For the latter, it is important not only the correct training of doctors, but also the territorial structures should be strengthened, in addition to the special units of care continuity (USCA), also those of epidemiology, prevention and environmental medicine. This should be done in conjunction with proper training and education of both doctors and citizens. I refer to what was rightly said in this House yesterday: environmental education should start from school; it should be resumed in schools together with health education. I complete my speech by declaring my vote in favour of the draft law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u94	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 30 of 10 May 2020 on emergency measures for epidemiological studies and statistics on SARS-COV-2 of 30 May 2020. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[Applause]] . (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u97	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to officially inform the Presidency that, in the short term, the Groups would ask to be able to anticipate the Question Time session scheduled for tomorrow afternoon until this afternoon, if it were possible (we are aware of the short notice), or at least at the beginning of tomorrow morning's sitting, at 9.30 a.m. We would ask you to take charge of transferring our readiness to the Presidency and therefore to the Government to anticipate the question time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u98	I will certainly report to the Presidency, Senator Ferrari. The Secretary for Relations with Parliament is present, who will be responsible for checking the availability of Ministers. Colleagues, before suspending the sitting, considering that we will meet again at 5 p.m. for the communications of Minister Hope, I invite you now to take the speeches at the end of the sitting, in order to avoid an extension of the work this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u101	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring the voice of a sector, the forensic one, which is in serious difficulty. Today, in these few minutes that I have available, I do not bring my own voice and I do not bring back the voice of the League, but I bring back the voice of several orders of lawyers, who, through appropriate resolutions, have denounced the absolute abandonment in which the judicial offices currently address. I belong to the forum of Monza and I represent, in the resolution of the Order of Lawyers of Monza a few days ago, the complaint with which it is said very clearly that the offices are not able to carry out the judicial function. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, we are in the middle of the House's work. Those who want to move away do so in silence and allow Senator Emanuele Pellegrini to intervene. PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). The area of justice, as we have said so many times, is a fundamental area, because that is what must guarantee the freedom and rights of citizens. If we abandon the area of justice, we abandon both freedom and law. [[Applause]] This is one of the biggest problems the government should overcome. We have spoken so much, during the debate on the motion of no confidence to Mr Bonafede, about the shortcomings that we have denounced. But this is not a political party denouncing the shortcomings of a sector; it is not a single Member of Parliament who speaks, it is an entire sector. I can quote you, in addition to this decision of my order, the decision of the Milan Bar, along the same lines, in which we denounce the fact that the chancellors cannot do their job, because they cannot work in teleworking. The Union of Civil Chambers also denounces the same things. I cannot believe that a government chaired by President Conte, who is a colleague, i.e. an attorney, is unaware of this situation. There is a complete fragmentation of the offices: courts of appeal, courts, individual sections and individual offices, each for himself. Lawyers don't know what to do anymore. I call for an alarm and call for help for the whole justice sector, not only for the lawyering, but also for the individual magistrates, who are unable to do their job. Please do something! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u104	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to express the solidarity of my political group, the 5 Star Movement, with Minister Luigi Di Maio. [[Applause]] for the serious threats he has suffered through social media in these hours; threats that come to invoke death for him and for all Neapolitans. Unacceptable threats, which once again manifest the discrimination that unfortunately still exists in the country between North and South, against which all parties should play their part in order to smooth it out and eliminate it. [[Applause.]] I therefore express solidarity with Minister Luigi Di Maio, who has done a very good job so far and who we are sure will continue to carry out in the continuation of the Government for the good of the Italians and the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u107	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to ask questions. Now, although the Senate Rules clearly state that questions should be answered within fifteen days, for oral questions, and within twenty days, for written ones, we know well that the government - not just the current one - does not usually do so. However, there should also be limits to this wrong practice, which is practiced only in the Italian Parliament and not in other parliaments and in Italy, only in Parliament and not in the Italian regional, provincial and municipal councils. But there are limits beyond which one should not go. In oral questions 3-00764 and 3-01134 I set out profiles of serious irregularities - which I also reiterated in Question No 3-01275 and, more recently, in Question No 4-03541 - which are present in a scheme and in two resolutions approved by the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning (CIPE) on 14 May, but which have been widely announced in the past, and that is why my various questions on this subject are raised. Such deliberations speak of damage to motorists and the EUR 800 million extortion. The CIPE has gone on the same, it has not replied, confirming therefore - suppose - that my observations on the completion of the Asti-Cuneo motorway are real, which involves a damage to the citizens and to the users also of the Turin-Milan highway, that it should have seen the rates go down of 2 percent per year already from 2018. Thanks to this intervention, they will rise by 2.20 percent from next year. It would be decent then for the government to reply, since it acts on the precise points on which it is asked to answer questions. The contempt for Parliament here also goes beyond the ordinary and I believe that it will also have profiles of interest to justice, because in the absence of a political response, which I would prefer, I have presented several remarks to the competent authorities, unfortunately of justice. The response to political problems should take place in the political sphere. In politics there is a complete lack of transparency in decisions, both from the point of view of publication, because these deliberations are secret and the text is nowhere to be found, although triumphantly announced in their alleged and false effects, and there is no answer to questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u110	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will use these minutes to discuss briefly with you the state of culture in Italy, starting from the public selection notice with which Deruta, in Perugino, on 28 May, was banned the scientific director of the Regional Museum of Ceramics, a new figure to which the municipal gallery is also entrusted. Deruta is one of the Italian capitals of ceramics, of majolica in particular, like Montelupo Fiorentino, like Vietri; therefore, we are talking about a task of absolute prestige for those - like me - outside this Chamber professionally dealing with Renaissance and modern ceramics. The crisis generated by the pandemic was evoked by the mayor of Deruta, obviously a posteriori, as a pretext to justify the free conferral of the post, which is three years old, and for which one is looking for a high profile expert, rightly. Culture, notoriously, is reward and reward to itself, and yesterday, after those of colleagues of the League on a school trip - let me pass the expression - I read the absurd praise of the mayor and his line also by a senator of Brothers of Italy. Therefore, the lucky winner of the ban must be satisfied with the prestige of a role that makes curriculum. Let's face it, colleagues: directing the oldest ceramics museum in Italy, born in 1898, is not a job, but a leisure. I am silent not to insult the mayor Toniaccini's further statements on social media - which perhaps should have suggested caution to the opposition senators - where he admits that the name of the volunteer director is already there, since the ban and selection merely preferred formalities to direct custody only for correctness and transparency, and I quote his words. What happens to Deruta is commented on by itself, but the confusion between work and volunteering does not arise from below, it is not a symptom of an immature sensitivity of the Italian population (in Umbria, however, I would find it difficult to believe it more than elsewhere). On the contrary, it derives directly from the choices made at the central level, from the importance almost nothing that the Ministry of Reference grants to the cultural heritage. The political responsibility for the systematic underestimation of this heritage is obvious and it is useful - I add a little that goes back to the past hours that it gives the measure of the degeneration achieved - also of the condescension of the media. On the night of June 8th, on the RAI televideo, page 162, to the index culture, brought only three news: one of these was the request to Minister Franceschini, by question at my first signature, signed by six other colleagues and published last week, to investigate the alleged transfer of the so-called Modigliani legal archives to the State in 2006 and their ambiguous management in the following years, as also illustrated in the book investigation by Dania Mondini and Claudio Loiodice (Mondini, moreover, is an excellent journalist proper to RAI). Well, the news was deleted from the televideo page on the morning of the 8th, and, uploaded a second time, it was deleted again. I do not know the identity of the censors who wanted to raise the Minister from all annoyance, but I would like Director Di Bella to ascertain this identity and apologize, waiting for them to do so, to all the parliamentarians and to all the citizens for a frankly hateful episode of misuse of the public service. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u111	I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.43 p.m. and resumed at 17.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u112	The next item is: "Communication from the Minister of Health on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to avoid the spread of the Covid-19 virus, pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as amended by Conversion Law No 35 of 2020" I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u113	Mr President, after dramatic months in an unprecedented health emergency that has conditioned and largely determined the times and methods through which the Government and Parliament have taken urgent and improcrastinable decisions, we all, I believe, feel the urgent need, after the end of lockdown, to widen and relaunch the institutional, political and social confrontation. We need an all-round confrontation, starting with the political forces present in Parliament, with the many precious energies of the health professions, of the scientific world, of the university, of volunteering and of associationism. A strong institutional and social synergy is the compass that can allow us to cross the terrible storm that, step by step, we are trying to put behind us. It would be an unforgivable mistake to delude ourselves that our next navigation is free from further risks and above all, past the most dramatic days of the storm, to divide ourselves unmotivably in the action of relaunching and reform of our National Health Service. In this House, in my first speech as Health Minister when the Covid had not yet marked our lives, I said that on health, on the protection of the fundamental right to health, we must all make an extra effort to ensure that the general interest always prevails, lowering the faction flags. Today, even more than yesterday, I am deeply convinced of this. Today, even more than yesterday, I am convinced that our country is a great country that has the strength, energy and skills to implement the provisions of the Magistral Rule 32 of our Constitution. We need a clear dialectic between majority and opposition, between forces that, at different institutional levels, have in the management of health care relevant and competing responsibilities of government, as defined in Article 117 of our Constitution. For me, collaboration is not a choice, but a real institutional obligation. With this spirit today I say on behalf of the Government that I do not consider this discussion a formal passage, a simple and inevitable procedural fulfillment in compliance with paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as recently amended and approved by the Chambers. I am here to inform you of the work that has been done and the guidelines that we are developing in relation to the next steps that we will have to take, and I am here to listen in advance to the assessments, proposals and guidelines that Parliament considers appropriate to propose to the Commission. I do not therefore come with a closed package, but with open guidelines that, in a path of continuity with what has been done so far and in the light of the epidemiological evolution of the country, I put on the basis of a parliamentary debate from which I hope will come important contributions to the work that awaits us in the next few days. This seems to me to be the best way of respecting the spirit of the new legislative provision, which finds its first implementation today, and of promoting the best possible relationship between the Government and Parliament. However, I should like to make one point which I consider essential. We must never lose, not even for a second, the memory of what we have tragically experienced. Every choice, even those we are discussing today, must bear in mind what the last months have been for our country. I say it with all the strength I have inside me. We can't, wipe the tears, slow the pain, forget the nightmare we've been through. No, not only must we not forget, but we have a political and moral obligation to be consequent, to draw lessons from an unprecedented lesson. That's also the best way to remember who didn't make it. None of us can say, on a day that I hope we will never live again: I did not know, we were caught unarmed in the face of the violence of a new pandemic. No, we now have an obligation to take advantage of the experience, to enhance and put in conditions to work better all health care personnel and to correct and exceed the limits that the emergency has highlighted. We must do it with balance, aware of the work that, under unprecedented and dramatic conditions, the Republican institutions as a whole have carried out, without self-harmful judgments that hurt Italy, but also without closing their eyes to what did not work as it would have been necessary. We must not lose our memory. A hundred and forty days have passed since 22 January, with zero cases in Italy, we set up the task force to monitor the evolution of the epidemic from Covid-19; that decision, like many others that have happened, was adopted before the indications of the World Health Organization (WHO) and before all other European countries; only nine days later, on 31 January, we declared the state of emergency; it is 21 February when the first outbreak of Codogno explodes and in a few hours it changes dramatically everything. Writing this speech of mine, putting back in chronological order the different events, I relived the hardness of these many days, the many dramatic hours that we have spent. It is an impressive progression of facts and decisions, which have taken place without a moment of breath for the national government and regional governments. On 22 February, the first red areas were established in Lombardy and Veneto. Then followed are the double-signed orders concerning Piedmont, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Emilia-Romagna and Liguria. On 25 February, museum activities, school trips and football matches will be blocked only behind closed doors. On 1 March Italy was divided into three areas and on 4 March we took what, in my opinion, was the most painful decision: the suspension of school activities. From 9 to 23 March, with successive decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and ordinances we enter an increasingly severe and total lockdown. In the midst of these dates, there is our fight against time to equip an adequate response. Not only the unceasing work of our doctors and nurses, of all the health workers, but also many women men who have performed their duty with honor. There is the fundamental activity of the police forces, of civil protection, of thousands of volunteers. To all of them, our deepest gratitude will always go. [[Applause.]] There is the very difficult search throughout the world of masks, the hunting of swabs and reagents and, above all, the rush to buy breathers for our intensive therapies. There is a constant initiative at European level, in the G7 and the G20, to coordinate initiatives and responses on a supranational scale, because the virus, as has been mentioned several times, has never known national walls and borders. There are the results achieved between a thousand difficulties, the doubling of intensive therapies, the threefolding of places in the departments of pneumology and infectious diseases. There is a constant increase in the tampons performed. There is, now, an Italian production of masks; there is a fair selling price to the public. There is the role and respect, which we have gradually gained in all health, European and international bodies. The measures taken have always been accompanied by very difficult choices. They, together with the extraordinary sacrifices of millions of Italians and Italians, have allowed us to bend the curve of the contagion. We must never forget this: it is with the measures that Government and Regions have adopted that we have saved the lives of thousands of people. We have lightened the unsustainable weight that came on our health care offices and we have developed, day after day, the conditions for Italy to finally start again. We were the first Western country to be hit. We had to act without having an easily replicable model. Our choices in the following weeks have been followed by many other countries of Europe and the world. Today we can say that there was no alternative to the harshness of the measures taken. The places in the world where a softer strategy has been chosen (I think of those who have tried to follow the strategy of flock immunity) are paying a much higher price in terms of human lives, as well as in economic terms. Only with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 4 May did we begin the reopening phase. We have done so with caution and graduality. We started from manufacturing, construction, real estate brokerage and wholesale business. We have authorized some first trips within the Region of residence and still catering with the takeaway. Two weeks later, with Decree-Law No 33 of 16 May and the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 17 May, we made further progress in reopening, with new measures that will be effective until 14 June. It is important to remember a point that with Decree-Law No. 33 the norm, until then in force, that allowed the Regions to be able to activate measures exclusively more restrictive than those established by the central government. It is clear that from that moment on the Regions have the power to intervene with greater autonomy on the basis of the constant monitoring that we are implementing together. With these measures the following important decisions have been taken: movements have been authorized, without obligation of self-certification, within the Region; in compliance with the protocols, then economic activities such as bars, restaurants and services to people have taken new start; the prohibition of assembly, it is possible to gather and religious ceremonies are allowed; the conduct of public events is allowed in static form, provided that during them are observed the personal distances prescribed and other containment measures. Moreover, mobility has been restored throughout the national territory since 3 June without self-certification and since 3 June travel is allowed with regard to the Member States of the European Union, those of the Schengen area, the United Kingdom, Andorra, the Principality of Monaco, the Republic of San Marino and the State of the Vatican City; from 3 June people entering or returning to Italy from these countries are no longer subject to health surveillance and trust isolation for fourteen days, as was the case before. On the other hand, for those who enter or return to Italy from States or territories other than those I have just listed, the obligation to spend a period of fourteen days of health surveillance and trust isolation at their home or in another home chosen by the person concerned or, failing that, determined by Civil Protection. From June 15 will resume activities for cinemas, theatres and concerts, with the limit of 200 people indoors and 1,000 people outdoors. From the 15th of June they will resume the recreational and play activities for children. The thread that unites all these measures is the constant proportionality of the measures to the evolution of the contagion curve. Allow me here to thank the women and men who are part of our technical and scientific committee, which has accompanied with its own assessments and indications every step we have decided to take, in a positive relationship between science and politics, as it is right that it is. [[Applause.]] We don't have to change our path today. I believe that everyone - politics, the health world, scientists - all the more so after a lookdown, we must measure in our statements and never give contradictory messages to our fellow citizens. Within a number of legitimate scientific assessments and research, I believe that we must not feed a surreal division between pessimistic and optimistic. A second wave or a resurgence is not certain, but it is possible and therefore you have to be ready. This morning's interview in Anthony Fauci's newspaper "La Stampa" is very clear about this. We are all strictly anchored to an objective evaluation of data and facts. Our decisions must continue to be oriented exclusively by assessments carried out on the basis of verification criteria that we have decided together with the Regions: precise and strict parameters that are monitored, week after week, by a direction cabin composed of the Ministry of Health, the Higher Institute of Health and the Regions, with multiple and punctual checks. I have confidence in the seriousness of this work that is improving from day to day. Also on monitoring, as on many other things, there was not a model already ready; our scientists have worked it out and there is a growing accuracy of the data that come from the regions every day. The assessment expressed on the last survey is very clear and confirms the trends of the previous surveys. There is a constant: the healed increase; the contagion curve is reduced; many Regions are 0 or close to 0; the deceased decrease; the Rt index is all over Italy below the threshold of 1. They are objectively encouraging data, but they continue to represent only part of the reality. The analyses show, with the same clarity, two very precise indications that we cannot and must not underestimate. The first one: the epidemic has not ended, it is not over. There are still active transmission outbreaks. The second one: the virus, although in reduced form and with a prevalence of asymptomatic cases, continues to circulate. These two figures, as objective as the positive ones I mentioned earlier, must invite us to a convinced and responsible further caution. We are on the right path, but the enemy is not won, because living together with the virus, in a situation where activities increase and movements are liberalised, inevitably results in the multiplication of the probability of meeting the Covid: for this reason it is still essential to distance, use of masks, personal hygiene, avoid gatherings, stay at home and notify the doctor immediately to the first symptoms. That is why the quarantine measures still need to be strictly respected. This is why we must not lower our guard in compliance with the safety protocols defined for the reopening of production, commercial activities and other authorised activities. For this reason, again, we must continue and strengthen the screening and contact tracing activities, also with the new technologies and with the serological analysis in progress. It is necessary to keep the number of swabs high, especially in order to search for possible outbreaks where the Covid has hurt us most. That is why we must not hesitate, not even a second, to take new, rigorous measures where the need arises. On the basis of these general guidelines, with the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, to which we will work immediately after this parliamentary passage, we will have to decide on possible and further loosening measures, on which today I will listen carefully to the evaluations of the Senate of the Republic and tomorrow those of the Chamber of Deputies. One of the most important nodes concerns international travel to and from non-Schengen countries. My view is that the global epidemiological framework does not yet provide sufficient guarantees for an open market without prudential rules as early as 15 June. The data coming from many parts of the world, in particular from the Americas and the East, indicate a worrying growth of the contagion that we cannot afford to underestimate. Things are getting better in Europe, but the global picture is still very complex. Again, the whole theme of competitions is still open: I would like to remind you that, as far as football is concerned, on 20 and 21 June, the Serie A championship resumes behind closed doors, but we are already oriented to authorize the semi-finals and the final of the Italian Cup that will be held respectively on 12, 13 and 17 June. Again, we are faced with a strong request for opening, also in view of the already started summer season, of additional recreational activities: I think of accommodation activities such as spas, theme parks, alpine shelters. We must also decide on the timing and modalities of the congress activities and on the trade fairs that need a pre-organization also in view of the autumn, following of course the adoption of specific organizational measures and security protocols. Here too - and this is my opinion - caution and caution will be needed, but the road to a gradual resumption and gradual reopening can only be the one. We are also working on specific ways to allow the safe opening of summer centres, which have already been authorised since 15 June, and particular attention must of course be paid to activities relating to the crucial age group from zero to three years. The Government is also working to ensure the absolute re-opening of all schools from September onwards. My opinion is that this reopening is the top priority on which to focus all our attention and all our resources. The right to education of our children, guaranteed by the Constitutional Charter, is the essential factor for the future of our country. As is evident, prudence remains the fundamental rule for me, because we will not be definitively sure without the vaccine, which is the main tool to win this pandemic permanently. Italy in recent weeks has been the protagonist of a strong initiative in Europe: together with my colleagues Ministers of Germany, France and Holland, we have built a leading alliance that will guide the procurement of the vaccine for all European countries. We have written to the President of the Commission, Mr Ursula von der Leyen, so that Europe can move forward in this vital game for the health of our fellow citizens. We cannot be spectators of a market where the great superpowers face each other. The united Europe has the political, economic and scientific strength to play a leading role in this battle. No state must be left behind. The Union must be able to ensure, through a fair and transparent process, that everyone can have access to the vaccine and I believe that the Italian Parliament, by all political forces, must send a strong message that the vaccine is considered a global public good, a right of all and not a privilege of a few. [[Applause.]] The weeks to come will be very decisive. We must continue to work to keep the country united, from North to South. He will not win one territory alone against another, but only the Republic in its unity. These are the words of our President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella. These are strong and clear words, in which - I am sure - our entire Parliament is recognized. Thank you, Mr President of the Republic, for the strength you have given Italy at all the most difficult times we have been through in these terrible months. [[Applause.]] Thank you for your constant call to the need not to lose the reasons for unity. We are faced with an ambitious challenge for the coming months: to turn such a dramatic crisis into a great opportunity to restart and relaunch Italy. It's not easy, it's not obvious, but this is the real game that has to play our country system. For me this means first of all understanding the greatest lesson: the National Health Service is the most precious stone we have. Today we are all much more aware of this. We must therefore finally close the season of cuts. Every euro spent on health is an investment for the future of our country. In five months - I would like to remind you - we have invested more resources than the last five years, but for me it is only the beginning. We're gonna need a lot more resources from all levels. It is essential immediately to intervene to recover fully the ordinary activities suspended in the last months in which the fight against the Covid-19 has engaged very much of the energies of our National Health Service and has not allowed the regular performance of all the other benefits, which are now no longer postponed. In addition to the resources that are and will always be fundamental, reforms will be essential: we must have the courage to change and adapt our National Health Service to the new time in which we live. The months of Covid-19 have shown some weaknesses in the system on which we must intervene with the utmost determination and with the utmost courage. We have begun to do so with the decree relaunch, which has allocated 3,250 million euros, an unprecedented figure that will allow to enter new sap in the public health of our country. I think first of all of the need to strengthen health on the ground, to focus on research or, again, on new policies for staff. I want to give just one example, but it seems very significant to me: for fifteen years in Italy a law has been in force that has blocked the annual expenditure for health workers to the figure of 2004 less 1.4%; it is a rule that has been in force until a few years ago. Each year we could not spend more than what had been spent in 2004, less 1.4%. That rule, which I would like to define a real shirt of strength, fruit of the season of cuts and austerity, seen with the eyes of these months, appears daughter of a time that is no longer there, appears light years from today. Suffice it to say that only in these few weeks have the Regions, with the support of the State, assumed 25,947 people in our National Health Service. In the coming months we will have to have the courage to invest as never before and to reform with vision and lucidity. In conclusion, I believe that today there is an extraordinarily challenging phase, which calls on all of us, politics, institutions, the government and Parliament to make a huge leap in quality. The clearer words on the stakes and the underlying meaning of the work to be done have spoken to them - in my opinion - Pope Francis, when he said that "worse than this crisis, there is only the drama of wasting it." I think that we all have a great responsibility together and I am convinced that we will all have to work together to meet this challenge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u114	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u115	Mr President, you would like to have some attention, especially from the Minister. [[Recalls of the President]] Since I would like to address the Minister, I would kindly ask his colleague to allow him to listen. Mr Minister, I will not make a speech particularly related to what you have said, partly because - and you must admit - the recent history of our country, of the activity of the Government and of our Parliament has been so rapid and the events have crossed one another - we can say that you have produced, at the governmental level, dozens of decree-laws and I do not know how many DPCMs that, since the acronym stands by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, we know well to be administrative acts - that even the things that you are talking about today seem almost to belong, in some respects, to prehistory. On the other hand, the subject on which I intend to focus, even for a few minutes, is precisely this: the value of his statements today, for the role that Parliament has, according to the Constitution, and that it should have for those who believe in a parliamentary democracy. You, Minister, are not a rookie, even though you are a young man of age - I have white hair, you have not - for a long time already. Over the course of his political history he has been a Member of Parliament, and has repeatedly shown himself particularly attentive to the role of the Chambers. Today he comes here to talk to us pursuant to article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as amended by conversion law No 35 of 2020: this is what the agenda of today provides. Translating, even for those who are listening to us from their home, this means that you, today, intervene under this paragraph that was proposed by a deputy of the Democratic Party during the first reading of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No.19 - something that we could not do here in the Senate, because the Government has incardinated this provision to the Chamber of Deputies - to try, however, in a rabid and messy way, to give a semblance of role to senators and deputies. This serves to give a semblance of participation, because you, Minister, are telling us a good story today. As you know, we are very close to white shirts, nurses and the role that the National Health Service has played. Personally I even have co-workers involved in Covid departments - undersecretary Sileri knows this - and so those who speak to you, illustrious Minister, are perfectly aware of what has happened also and especially in our hospitals and so-called Covid hospital. They are among those who know for sure that it was not a fiction and that the country has really experienced tragic and dramatic moments, of which it is right to be aware and that we must not forget, especially so that - by making horns - they do not happen again in the future. Minister, I would simply like to say that your report, by delegation of the President of the Council of Ministers, is of no value to the role that Parliament must play. I fought in the first Committee on Constitutional Affairs and here in the Senate when it came to voting on Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 at second reading, to give full effect to our Constitutional Charter. The role of our Parliament, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, has been reduced to very little. Our Constitution, in accordance with Article 77 and, in an even more significant way, Article 78, provides that Parliament also plays a fundamental role in emergency situations, as the President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Cartabia, also pointed out. The warm cloth proposed by Congressman Ceccanti, approved in the Chamber of Deputies at first reading and then here in the Senate, is completely inadequate, because Parliament's role has deteriorated and, above all, it is outside the rules of the Constitution. [[Applause]] Since today, in the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate, the Decree-Law No. 33 of 2020, of which Senator Parrini, of the Democratic Party is rapporteur, is currently under discussion, which I do not see in the Chamber, which deals with the same matters as Decree-Law No. 19 of 2020, only for the so-called phase 2, I hope that at least in that measure we will be able to introduce changes that will ensure that Parliament plays a preventive and not subsequent role in relation to the decisions of the Government. Among other things, we have seen that, most of the time, these were decisions not of the Government, but of the President of the Council of Ministers, who even ransacked the role, Minister, of which he had rightly been the protagonist, when - for example - he prevented air links with China. It is the Minister of Health who had this role under the Civil Protection measure. I tell you frankly for the second time and I also appeal to the majority senators: in the course of the debate on Decree-Law No 33 we will propose the establishment of a bicameral Commission to enable parliamentary democracy to be achieved in this Parliament. We believe that at this stage the decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers could also have been of primary legitimacy, but this is completely inadequate for the role that Parliament must play under our Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u116	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u117	Mr President, Minister, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the main point of the Minister's speech, who has not come to tell us much more than we already did, is essentially an appeal to dialogue and to the strong synergy that must be there in Parliament and in the country to deal with this particular emergency, which we know is very difficult. You speak of clear dialectic between majority and opposition: it is an expression that I liked so much, also because, if we want to be clear, clear and transparent, this dialogue on the subject of health (and not only) between majority and opposition can only take place provided that - as Senator Errani says - in front of everything that has happened, rather than starting to point the index against one part or another, we try to draw the right considerations from the mistakes that have been made. Let me add that one of the issues that we absolutely cannot ignore, on the basis of a genuine dialogue, is that it must be clear from the outset that the issue of differentiated autonomy must not be called into question at all. [[Applause]] I say this, because there is no day on which we do not feel representatives of the majority use what happened following the coronavirus emergency to call for a recentralization of the health system. An authoritative member of his Government, the Minister for South Provence, today declares that there are no supremacy clauses and that it is necessary to rethink Title V. Minister, if these are the conditions, the dialogue between the majority and the opposition, or at least between the majority and the League, will never be there. We are sure of that. [[Applause]] And there will not be for a simple consideration, Minister, that Minister Boccia has already given us by answering a question to the House of Deputies. Yes, it is true that the set of rules in force allows us to say that, in the event of a national emergency, the State decides, even if there is no supremacy clause. What did Minister Boccia say when he answered the question in writing? He said that even without the supremacy clause, he thinks that the power of the State can be fully exercised. What's he gonna call back to? We say that to all those who every day bring out the talk of recentralization, saying that we have twenty different regional systems and that this was the cause of the problems we have had. He simply refers to Article 117 (2) (q) of the Constitution, which provides that the State has exclusive legislative competence over international prophylaxis. What does that mean? Let us have a political debate and debate in a clear, transparent and clear way, without pointing the finger at each other. Under normal conditions, there are regional systems which we know very well to have a different organization. In the event of an emergency, however, the possibility on the part of the State to intervene and to give clear rules already exists. [[Applause.]] So this is not the debate we have to have. On the contrary, if we were to highlight errors and understand what was wrong in the Regions, I take into consideration what Professor Crisanti says, whose work is also a bit at the basis of the great result that the Veneto Region and Zaia themselves have obtained in combating the virus. You are the first to remind us every day how good Zaia is and what he has done well, and not all others. You tell us, and there's no television show where any of you don't remind me. All right, what's the basis for Zaia's success? Professor Crisanti explains this very well: I made swabs on the asymptomatics, as you also mentioned before that you, Minister, when you could not because it seemed clear to me that they were a vehicle of contagion: if I adapted to the flock the Veneto would go on a collision course with the virus, such as Lombardy and Piedmont. He then asked Mr. Crisanti what Zaia's winning recipe was. He replied that the winning recipe was to ignore the indications of the World Health Organization and the Government. [[Applause.]] If we are to discuss how we need to review, organize better, supervise and strengthen the national health system in order to be ready and no longer be surprised - as you have said, Minister - this is not the debate to be held, talking about central power and power of the regions. No, we make the resources available where they are to be made available. In fact, rather than doing a battle, which also comes to the Constitutional Court - as was done with the order issued by the President of the Marche Region - there must be collaboration between the Central State and the Regions. [[Applause.]] Collaboration is the right word, not confrontation or discharge of responsibility, as has happened in many cases. That must be the basis for the debate. Then we sit down and confront each other. Many things you have said today are absolutely acceptable, such as, for example, that we must be very careful about the external borders. It is a good thing that we have taken advantage of some mistakes that have been made before, because we have countries, such as South America and also Africa itself, where the virus seems to have a very strong charge and is much more dangerous. Instead of being afraid of the Lombards in Italy and looking at Lombardy and Lombards with a somewhat anti-Lombardy spirit - as someone pointed out - it is better that we look to other countries [[Applause]] , where the virus is much stronger and where it can return and create problems, since here the situation seems to be improving from this point of view. It was you, in fact, who said to be careful about border control, to check, to check the temperature, to see where people came from and to do a minimum of tracking. These are all rules, Minister, of common sense that are needed to deal with the so-called phase 2. There is no need to do anything from a particular point of view. You are right: we preach caution, we do not think we have already defeated the virus, we must be careful. I think, however, that everything that can help, the measures that some people have highlighted and some common sense measures, such as distancing - our grandparents already told us not to talk too much about people; we should take advantage of what they said - the use of masks, the fact of doing quick tests if the temperature exceeds 37.5 degrees, the speech of the Immuni app, with all the problems and contraindications that there are, the tracings and epidemiological questionnaires, must be put in place with common sense. We must, however, reopen and give citizens the opportunity to fully confront each other. I will conclude, Minister, by asking you, please, can you tell us - perhaps in your reply - how much extra health expenditure the Government has quantified for the Coronavirus emergency actually amounts to? When we ask for new resources at all levels, we begin to understand how much money we need, if they are planned, if there are projects and what they need to do. Then, based on that, let's go see where to look. This is the first step, rather than taking everything and then eventually figuring out how to go and spend. [[Applause.]] As far as vaccines are concerned, it is absolutely right that the vaccine should be developed, but let us not forget other therapies: plasma therapy which - as has been pointed out on more than one occasion - has achieved excellent success, and perhaps also the use of medicines. The vaccines, instead of just thinking about distributing them in very large quantities, we try to make them as safe as possible, so at least let's do a wonderful service to the whole community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u118	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u119	Minister, you told us today that you wanted to inaugurate a new phase in the relations between the Government and Parliament, and you also told us that you did not want to lose your memory, obviously referring to things far more important than those to which I refer. Allow me, however, to link these two statements. We have come from a period in which the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers' decrees have been put in place, with the approval of an initial decree-law, and with which very heavy restrictions have been imposed to combat the epidemic and this has been done with an inadequate legal instrument. In fact, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is not an act of standardization that has force of law, of primary standardization, but is an act of secondary standardization that should be used only to detail - from the implementing point of view - primary regulatory sources. So, instead, it wasn't. With the President of the Council of Ministers we have limited constitutional freedoms and, from a communicative point of view, we have to this extent upset the hierarchy of sources that we have made to become normative sources even the FAQs published on the website of the Presidency of the Council. I am not saying all this for an end in itself, but because, Minister, if we really want to change the pace, we must go another way. And it seems to me that his intervention coincides with other acts of the Government that, instead, reproduce the old road, almost that, precisely, the wolf loses its hair but not the vice. At the beginning of this week we learned the conclusions of the so-called task force Colao, perhaps the mother of all the task forces that as grasshoppers invaded our institutional life at some point. We heard them on television and read them in the newspapers. But when will these conclusions be brought to Parliament's attention? Will they be discussed here or that assembly that had been invested with great powers, and that from the media point of view was to become almost salvific, can today be degraded to something useless? Minister, you know that, at another time I had the responsibility of a task force. I have come here to Parliament, I have asked for permission, and above all I have demanded that the conclusions be brought before Parliament and Parliament discussed. Today I read of a teacher, Mazzucato, who did not sign those conclusions, saying that I am engaged in another mission - a beautiful word - with a fantastic team of young people. But can Parliament please know what this mission is and what team are we talking about? Mr Minister, excuse me, but we are leaving with phase 3: does it not seem to you that this would have been an opportunity not to be missed in order to create a triangulation between economic categories, Government and Parliament, opening here a series of hearings, to be concluded with a session dedicated to the economic problems that characterize our Republic at a dramatic time, instead of convening, within a Roman villa, general states that have not yet understood what they are and of which the program is not yet known, do you not know who will be part of it or who will speak to it and what will be determined? This is another way of putting Parliament aside, which is something to which, Minister, you care much more about in terms of culture and tradition than I do. The centrality of Parliament is much more important to you. Once, when I had another role compared to her, I recommended a book, "The refoundation of bourgeois Europe" by Charles Maier, in which it is explained that there are times of restart in which representative institutions must be set aside and compressed for necessity. This had ensured stabilisation after the First World War, that of the 1920s, and the same dynamic had been revived after the Second World War. If there were such an awareness, it would already be something comforting. The impression, Minister, is that all this is the result of approximation and - let me say, not to you - also of lack of knowledge or, if you prefer, ignorance. Since he has been delegated by the President of the Council and has good studies, please report it to him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u120	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u121	Minister, I particularly thank you for the concluding part of your speech, because at this stage of coexistence with the virus, which must be characterized by health strategies capable of preventing and containing the spread of contagions in the new conditions of normal living to which the country is finally returning, we must not forget what you have defined the strategy of reforms. It is in fact the one that in the future will finally allow us to face in a different way any new emergencies like this, that we all hope are not there, but that we cannot exclude. These strategies - as you said - must be part of a reform season. At last we have resources available for health care that we have not seen for many years, always to cope with cuts, reductions and contractions. We now have large figures and, therefore, we must not waste this enormous opportunity. Among the reforms that we would like to face - and we hope to be able to do so in the coming months here in Parliament - I would like to mention a few of them to you. For example, it is important for us to talk about a structural reform of 118, our emergency number, and those first soldiers sent to battle that in many cases have been our vanguard to the virus, which should finally become a structural and integrated part of our National Health System (not as they are now, almost a foreign body, as my colleague often likes to call them). We must not forget, in this reform season, the chronic and not self-sufficient patients, the serious disabled people who have suffered a great deal during this period because, as you said, we have focused on dealing with SARS-Cov-2 and the patients suffering from this virus, neglecting all other diseases and closing the various outpatient activities. Everything has become more complicated and more difficult and for those who already suffer every day from medical difficulties - health care, this has really been a very, very heavy burden. We must not forget that we can help them in the future, for example with a more careful home management, with the care allowance to guarantee their services at home instead of forcing them to be hospitalized in institutions that we have all seen how much they have manifested an important degree of fragility and vulnerability in this period. Much better, therefore, to face all the necessary steps to ensure, where possible and the highest possible number of non-self-sufficient patients, that they are followed at home, in their environment and by their loved ones. This also means protecting the figure of the caregiver, which we had already begun to do in the Senate with a bill, and it also means strengthening the figure of the family nurse, which we finally see faced in the so-called relaunch decree and that we could then cut out, in our opinion, in an even better and more specific way with another bill deposited always in the Senate. All the issues that have come to the fore in this period, we, with foresight, had already thought of dealing with them. We must then focus, with strength and determination, on research, dear Minister, as you said, because that is the only way we can find ourselves with weapons ready for the future. Research must be the key tool for dealing with the future. In this field we must not forget to value the research doctorates, so mistreated in our country, and we must also think, for the future, of valorizing the checks that the doctoral candidates receive. We must finally think of adapting them not to the figures of the most developed countries on the planet, but at least to bring them above the threshold of contributory importance, so as to guarantee them also a protection for the future and for the years of quiescence, we hope at the end of a brilliant career and in our country. In fact, we must do everything to prevent these brilliant minds, which we so well know to form despite the scarce resources available, from fleeing abroad and giving lust to others rather than to us through their work. We must therefore increasingly promote a meritorious system, which is fundamental. I shall conclude, Minister, with a little note of regret because after all the things we have heard in this House over the last few days, this morning, while discussing the measure on seroprevalence, precisely by the President-in-Office, Vice-President La Russa, I listened to something I never wanted to hear. In fact, talking about the masks and inviting colleagues to wear them, he said, more or less, that their usefulness is controversial. For months we have been fighting to invite all Italian citizens to use the masks. (Appalusi). We have been repeating for months how useful and indispensable it is to cope with the emergency, to try to reduce the spread of contagion more and more, this instrument of which we complained so much about in the first weeks of the epidemic. We screamed all the way that we had to find them quickly, both those that make up personal protective equipment for our doctors and those for the population. In some places they have even forced them to be used outdoors because they realize how important they are and then, from the top of this House, from the second office of the State, we feel that they are worthwhile. I therefore conclude with an invitation: we are all more responsible, let us not forget the role we have, the importance of what we say and let us not complain so much about the fake news if we are then the first to disclose them. So let us try to make careful and truthful information. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u122	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u123	Mr President, it will take less than my time, having asked my colleague, Mrs Rizzotti, to give her a few minutes. However, I am interested in speaking, because I sincerely did not understand the speech made in this Chamber by the Minister. As a political character, I certainly would not be able to understand it, but when it comes to the desire to open a direct and fair confrontation between majority and opposition, it does not seem to me a speech that can be made in this House, where between the decree-laws and the various measures adopted, the majority has hardly opened up to the opposition, as evidenced by the many amendments tabled in this House that have not even had a negative outcome, but have not really been taken into account. You probably would like a better comparison between the same majority and the government, since a large number of amendments have been tabled by the same majority on many legislative proposals. I therefore welcome your sentiment, because it does not seem to me to be the bearer of a message from the Government of which you are a member, of a new opening between majority and opposition; an opening that we have been asking for for a long time and that we have, above all, reiterated further at the time when the pandemic broke out, for which we heard the President of the Council say that Italy, as the seventh world power, was endowed with a national pandemic plan, which then proved to be absolutely untruthful. As time is limited and you said you came here also to hear some advice to be brought together into the plans and different guidelines that you said you were already present in your agenda, then I say what you can do. In my opinion, we need to start with a real national plan on the pandemic, for what remains of the pandemic, but also to be ready for everything that can happen in the future. Moreover, we need to use European resources, which seem not to be negligible, to carry out an important restructuring of the hospital network, both for the part of the building industry and for the technological endowment. It is also necessary, Minister, to establish that connection between the hospital networks and the territorial services of which there has been a strong shortage. [[Applause.]] They are two entities that travel on different tracks, instead it would be appropriate for health care, which is made up of hospital networks but certainly also of territory, to be strongly connected, in which the two elements are not against each other, but one for the other. It also seems to me that the problem facing us - I am speaking as a doctor - as soon as the meshes are spread out, as is happening at this very time, is to put an end to the waiting lists. However, Minister, you are well aware that the conditioning that will involve the resumption of visits and the reopening of operating rooms, and the time that will be devoted to sanitization between interventions, between visits, will probably make it impossible to reduce waiting lists. Here are some indications, there are many others. However, the time available to me is running out of time and so I am silent. These are the first advice I can give. Another tip. If you really want a spirit of strong cooperation between you (and, I hope, also between the Government) and Parliament, then we are ready to move forward in the direction of this cooperation that you request. [[Applause.]] Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u124	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u125	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u126	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to start again: safely, but it is time to start again, for the good of Italy and for the future of our country. Compared to other countries we are behind. First of all, we must give thanks, not only to the medical staff, to the nursing staff, not only to all those who have worked during the weeks and months of lockdown, not only to the armed forces, but also to the Italian citizens, who have lived with discipline and commitment these complicated weeks. Now, however, after thanks, it is time to get back on track, to recover the delays and to make Italy a country with less bureaucracy and less taxes, a country capable, not to block but to unlock investments, to unlock and to give freedom also to the projects and ideas of its citizens, entrepreneurs and all those who want to work for the good of the country. If we talk about restarting, even economic, we must talk about tourism, because we are the country in which, out of every 10 euros of income produced, more than one euro goes and comes from the tourism sector. That is why the reopening of borders is essential. The line followed in the first weeks and in the first months has not always been congenial to increase the confidence in our country. Initially, it was probably feared to be stuck in the house even during the next summer, which luckily will not be, and we have forgotten those hundreds of thousands of operators and citizens who live in Italy on foreign tourism. Then, later, the openings of the borders were announced from 3 June, but it was done without warning the neighbouring countries, thus creating further uncertainty and, moreover, even with short margins, such that even the hotel operators were not immediately in condition to become accessible to their guests. But this is not the time to look back. On the contrary, let's look forward, let's roll up our sleeves, let's try together to make this tourism become an important piece of that step forward that the country needs so pressingly. So, Minister, let us welcome the openings announced today. It was difficult for us, from the beginning, to accept even those unilateral decisions that came, at the beginning of the pandemic, from individual countries; Countries that set vetoes for the access of Italians or respect to parts of our country. And it is even more difficult today to accept that some countries still place limits and restrictions on our access. It is therefore not appropriate to delay further. Here, too, the concept of "safe, but start over" must apply. First of all, with the Schengen countries, guaranteeing the free movement between the different countries and without the need for forty. At the same time, it would be useful, in our opinion, to provide for a constant monitoring of the development of the contagion also in countries outside the European Union, precisely in order to try, as soon as possible, to restore the resumption of flights and travels also with respect to countries outside the Schengen area and outside the European Union. There are, in fact, a whole series of countries, more or less close, in which the number of cases of Covid-19 is still very small or in which, even, there have been no cases even in the worst period of contagion. Therefore, preventing connections with a whole range of countries with Italy can have deleterious effects, both on the recovery of the economy and tourism. In this sense, I believe it is important to reopen all our internal airports and, as I said, to monitor both crisis units and in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in order to make it possible to restore air and rail connections more quickly at national and European level. If we want the economy to start again, we cannot ignore the full functionality and the complete restarting of the transport system. Only by allowing people to move freely can we think of restarting the country. The summer we are about to live will certainly not be comparable to the previous one. The health emergency has caused a paralysis of the entire tourism chain, which for our country represents in normal times 12 percent of GDP and that in this first half of the year, according to CNA estimates, has suffered a decrease in revenues of 67 percent. It is estimated that in the coming months - the highlight - about 25 million tourists from abroad will be missing at the appeal, resulting in a reduction in turnover, three times lower than the normal values. If we want to promote the economic recovery of the country, we can only think of important measures to support tourism, which are not only exceptional but also structural and are moving towards the modernization and restructuring of the host and hotel sites, as well as a strong digitization of their tourism offer, with attention also to the so-called return tourism, Minister. Abroad there are 5 million Italians strongly linked to our country, who have experienced with great anguish the reality of our country in the phase of lockdown and who can represent an important world to support all that tourist and economic induced and be of help and support to many small territories, often minor and internal, especially in South Italy. In short, Minister, Mr President, it is time to start again at 360 degrees. We need politics: a responsible policy, but also courageous, capable of combining safety and health with the restoration of normality and the revival of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u127	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u128	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to your speech as both senator and - even more so - mayor of Orzinuovi, in the Province of Brescia. In my Commune, which I have been honored to represent since last spring, the official deaths in March were 98, against 12 of the average of previous years, and 179 infected. Minister, as you can imagine, the 800 - percent increase in deaths has devastated my community of just over 12,000. For me and all my fellow citizens have been terrible weeks, during which, like many other Italians, we had to lock ourselves in our homes in order to be able to face a bloody virus that, to date, has not yet been defeated. Minister, I appreciate your willingness to look forward and the fact that you are here today to listen to all our useful and concrete suggestions. Thank you so much. However, before we talk about the future, let me only have one criticism of the government you represent. A government that, more than a hundred days after the most critical moments, has not yet had the time, except for a two-hour visit by President Conte on the night of April 27, to come to the territory to look into the eyes of all those people who have lost a loved one, a friend or a family member. I hope, Minister Hope, that you can do so; it would be a pleasure for me to welcome you into my Commune. The time has come, as you rightly say, Minister, to think about the reconstruction of our country, our territories and all social realities, especially those most affected by this pandemic. In order to do so, my hope is that this will be done by sharing with the mayors, administrators and all those people in the local authorities who have given their hearts and souls in these months. Administrators who had to face this emergency alone also because of the suppression of the Provinces, which at a time like this would have been useful for greater coordination of the forces. Not only that: we think of doctors, health workers, hospitals, family doctors (we have lost two doctors with this pandemic) and all the voluntary health workers, who have never spared themselves despite the seriousness of the situation. Think of the Forces of Order, which in recent months have guaranteed security to all our citizens, really showing the best part of the country. And think, Minister, of the world of enterprise and work, of those businesses that have never stopped and of the workers who bravely at those moments, however, went to their jobs and who have fought and will fight difficult battles for many months as never before. It is the comparison with these realities the only way to be able to relaunch the country. We have seen too many statements in recent months from politics and beyond. We have seen many promises, easy recipes, slogans and easy solutions for the future, when instead we are still waiting to understand who has decided (and why) that some municipalities of Lombardy, including Orzinuovi, were not proclaimed red zone. You think, Minister, that more than two months after my parliamentary question on this matter I have not yet received any reply. I do not say this, Minister, to make any controversy; I say this because those who like me and you believe in institutions know well that these must give concrete answers to people first. We are here to do so, and I hope that the same will be true of the government you represent in this House today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u129	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u130	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his report in which I find myself at many points. Of course, I have to make one point: this pandemic has put a strain on the government, you, Minister, in the first place, and our national health system. It was a very hard test, from which we have not yet come out and which has engaged us in a path to high obstacles, because unfortunately, crossing this path, we had many deaths and they are the ones that have really hurt us most. In all that we have experienced in the past three months, that seem to be years now (because if we think about the first days when we met, when he came to relate to us, since then it has been months, but every hour that passed had a consistency and it was an extra thought), you rightly said that every decision that was made has been weighed so much, because you had to think about so many aspects, all those that emerged as you went on. Also on all the decrees that have been issued, it is true that there has been controversy, but during the process of conversion of the same decrees emerged critical issues that had not been thought of before. It is right that the debate in the country should take place, because every bearer of interest must then intervene. Of all the speech you have made, Minister, one point seems very important to me. You referred to school as a priority, and I also believe that it is a priority to open schools. Our kids, our students (the older ones can always get away with it) I can't think that the younger ones still remain isolated with the family that had to take care of them, in the sense that they had to think about being out of a context that instead sees them in relation to all the other companions. You see, Minister, I am very pleased that you have spoken about this, because the children have been the great absentees in this context. We also talked to Prime Minister Conte about this subject. I am part of an interparliamentary table which aims precisely to focus attention on the problems of childhood and adolescence. The children have had this big problem, which they, too, have to somehow try to deal with and someone has to help them. I thank all the families and teachers who have taken care of this situation. It is no coincidence - Minister, you said so yourself - that our President of the Republic will be inaugurating the school year in Vo' Euganeo. We have a president who went to Codogno to signal what happened. I must say that these are important signs of cohesion throughout the territory. You said it first in an important passage: there must be no territory against the other, but there must be a cohesion of the whole nation, of all Italy. We have also highlighted ourselves with the other European countries - you said it well - by taking action when no one knew what was going on. We have made important commitments, because the responsibility to shut down all activities has also been heavy. We knew what was going on, but we saw what we met and I repeat that all those deaths were an important burden, and so we had to choose. Now, however, is really the time for the responsibility of politics, certainly with an eye always attentive to safety, because as you said before, the virus has not left, it still circulates among us, eh we have also seen the outbreak of Rome, is therefore still here. However, we must also assume responsibilities. We are here today to accompany these paths as well. The passage you have mentioned is not a formal passage, so we care very much about what you said, because we would like to share these further paths that we will do. You also mentioned the fact that in this case we must live the crisis as an opportunity. True, crises must be taken as an opportunity to change paradigms, we must not refer to the paradigms of the past, but there must be new models by virtue of what has been. One out of all - you said it before - is our National Health System, which, however, has endured, albeit with great difficulty. On this side, however, we will no longer have to make the mistake of making further cuts. We are talking about an acronym (SSN), behind which, however, there are people, the staff who held the National Health System. These people must be helped in stabilization, we can no longer think of having a health system with precarious ones. We have to stabilize these people and if we have not been able to shift in fifteen years, instead now we really have to think of getting back to the right staff, trained, but that it has a future perspective, not that every three years it has to think that the contract expires. The safety of us citizens is also at stake. You think what it's like to always have Damocles' sword when the contract expires. This is very important and we must assume all the responsibilities. Another fundamental step, in my opinion, is to rethink also the health of the territory. In this regard, too, we must learn nothing, as already stated in Law No. 833, founder of the National Health System and many other laws have said since that, until the decree Balduzzi of 2012. The national health system must be thought of where it is closest to the citizens: in the districts, on the territory, where the citizen is closest to receiving the service. Moreover, now - and I say this here, precisely because so many citizens, as I think you too, will have made themselves heard - we have the other serious problem of recovering everything that has been left behind, the backward visits, the interventions. There are people waiting. Unfortunately, there have been deaths of people who have not gone to the hospital because of fear. We need to recover all this health from people who are waiting, like all chronically ill people. On this front there is another important step, as a colleague mentioned earlier, which concerns the community nurse. I'm glad it's included in the I raise decree. Here too, in fact, we must not wait for the citizen to arrive at the hospital in precarious conditions, but we must anticipate it, with the medicine of initiative, with telemedicine, with all these innovations. Do you see where the big challenge is? This is the important challenge: to put in place innovations that can help us to be closer to the citizen, to prevent the citizen from sharpening the disease and arriving directly at the hospital. We saw it with the epidemic crisis: going to the hospital was certainly not the best thing. Of course, we had to do what was possible at that time, but we had to keep the citizens at home and help them stay in their homes to take care of themselves before they got to the hospital. These are the important things: reorganise, recover innovation and review some aspects, including contractualisation. I've talked about it before, but I'm still going back. We cannot think that we have health workers, who work closely with each other, with different contracts. I am thinking of emergency-emergency: in the emergency room there are people who work at the same times and on the same shifts as people who do not have the same contract. Here again there is inequality and it is not good, we must be much more punctual. We know what there is to do, along with you, because of course you came to us to ask for help. Of course, we must also reopen production activities, which are important. But if we are in an economic crisis due to a health crisis, we need to invest more in health care, to avoid returning to an economic crisis. That is what we must do. Finally, but no less important, there is the monitoring of how the funds will be used: this is fundamental, because there are so many funds that we make available, but we need to know how they will be used and how effective they will be on people's health. That, Minister, is what we are asking for. We're here and we're gonna help you out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u131	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for being here in this House today to report on things we already knew. I thank you especially because I hope that you will be able to receive answers from your replies to a few questions and perhaps to the dozens of questions that I have tabled in vain in recent months and also recently, because nobody answers. Forza Italia in recent months has had a more than responsible attitude, making available skills and ideas, which have almost always been ignored. I refer to the numerous appeals also made on the lack of coordination between the Government and the Regions. You are well aware that relations could have been managed in a better way with the direction, for example, of Agenas; but in that case you preferred to be a commissioner. I note that he is generally a Commissioner for mafia problems or money, but in that case the budget was in surplus of 6 million euros, it was unassailable. It was therefore preferred to leave the Regions alone, who already suffered because of the cuts that the governments of recent years had implemented, blamed them even unjustly for the lack of government lines. I hope that at least now the Government has realized that, starting today, it will have to be defined a real process of rationalization; not the usual spending review and linear cuts, but a path of redefinition of the functions of human capital, putting in the places of command the best, not only the faithful. I note with horror, for example, what perhaps happens with the decree relaunch - we will see - with hundreds of recruitments to the Ministry, without competition, taking advantage of the excuse of the coronavirus. In these circumstances, I regret to say, you did not want to delegate or trust known personalities, so much so that, for example, you preferred to postpone the signature of the delegations to your Undersecretary, forcing observers to attend the meetings of the Technical and Scientific Committee, since the documents and the minutes were also secreted for them. We would therefore have preferred the same determination that he used to remove the Director-General of the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas), Bevere, to have used it also for the obvious criticalities and inadequacy demonstrated by Arcuri and Borrelli in finding masks, swabs reagents, protective devices for doctors and healthcare professionals, committed day and night to fighting the virus, which I heartily thank [[Applause]] and that instead the government thanks in words, but does not give money to. He asked the Italians, who were fantastic, to make huge sacrifices while staying at home, perhaps to give time not so much to hospitals to reorganise, but to the Government and the Ministry to find ideas and resources for the eventual restart. Minister, honestly, I see no sign that Italy is considering applying the strategy of the three Ts: testing, tracing and dealing. You have chosen an app, which the Italians do not download on their devices, because it has not been made clear either how it was chosen, or especially on privacy. It is precisely today that we voted here in this House for an epidemiological study by the Government, which is struggling to bear fruit, because only 24% of the people respond positively to the demands of the Red Cross. To restart, the country would need different strategies, because if it is true that the app helps in identifying contacts of positive asymptomatics, the next step is practical. People cannot be asked to test themselves, if they then have to wait between seven and ten days to receive a swab, while isolating themselves from the family and work. Mr Minister, you have therefore spoken of very large resources, but I would like you to respond, for example, to the recruitment of all health workers, when the resources are over, the contracts will expire and our hospitals will again be without a workforce. Answers must be given. I would have used another T, the fourth, which is that of timeliness, which should have resulted in any of his communications. Instead, it was not timely, for example, to give the ok for authorization to autopsies: only from autopsies it was understood what was the cause of death, due to the virus, but the Ministry of Health blocked them for two months and unlocked them only yesterday. We've seen a lack of timeliness in giving an okay to plasmapheresis testing. Why did you leave so late? Because the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) and the Higher Institute of Health have ignored for two months the results of the hospital in Mantova and at the time of the ok have assigned the experimentation to that of Pisa, which has dealt with two cases, against the hundreds of cases treated in Mantova and Pavia. Who knows? Blood or family business, or any conflict of interest? Mr. Minister, we'll see you tomorrow. Do you think you can wait a few more months to activate an extraordinary plan for waiting lists, which in recent months have grown more than they already have, so that other patients with cardiovascular, oncology or chronic diseases can also return to treatment? Please, it's a little funny to hear that we are now soliciting the family caregiver for all disabled people and disabled people who have been at home in recent months, alone, without support. Then we saw that 150 million euros are allocated for scooters and 50 for disabilities: it's really ridiculous! [[Applause]] How do you plan to strengthen the medicine of the territory, since, if you expect the second wave, it is very useful that you are treated home, since now we also know how to do so? We are not talking about everything else, that is the new models of taking charge, hiring, doctors resident and researchers: we will see how it works. Of course, three billion euros have been invested, but more than twenty of them would be needed. Now, we know that you do not like the word "private" very much, but the word "Europe" does. I think then that, before it is too late, he could convince his government allies to use the ESM funds without conditions (let's also see the final document), otherwise the money to realize his fine words is not there. I do not ask him or my party: they ask him for an infinite number of citizens and patients who are waiting for real and effective answers to get back to safety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u133	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u134	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Minister's communications and I must say that there has been a great deal of openness on his part: we all have to work for a general interest. Thank you for that, Minister, and I hope that you will follow. I hope that, from now on, for example, there will be a national emergency centre (maybe on the CDC model, which is one of the most significant health situations in Piedmont), which would be even more indispensable in stage 3 of reopening, perhaps strengthening the surveillance and monitoring networks of the SARS-Cov-2 epidemic and other future infections. Noting that there is no effective measure to curb the epidemic and combat other emergencies, there is no systemic approach to national and government surveillance and monitoring (I am thinking for example of the flows of people from abroad), without there being a tendency to overcome the significant structural deficiencies of our health system in a strategic design that assumes health as growth and development of the same system. I would like there to be a system of national monitoring and surveillance, with strict risk assessment of people from abroad. Otherwise, we have seen that each Region has provided itself and not always with good results. Another issue, Minister, is how to intervene on those Italian citizens who are unemployed, unemployed or cared for and who could be involved in the care and home care of people and families, also in terms of new jobs and opportunities, establishing for example the role of family assistant, not only for the protection of the fragile elder but also for the disabled who are not self-sufficient, influencing for example the role of carrying out community work, which perhaps favours the availability to the social-assistant and socio-educational care of children and elderly both of their own family, and of subjects reported by the reference communities. Every beneficiary of the project (I think for example of former bartenders, former waiters, former employees who unfortunately lost their jobs because of Covid; and, believe me, there are many) will be accompanied by different training courses and with distance support. I am thinking of centres for access and support to care, remote teleconsultation and monitoring, for taking care of the fragile at home (i.e. integrated and widespread home care), creating a primary care team (e.g. with the family nurse and with the doctor) to ensure appropriate continuity of care for the patient at home. Another issue, Minister, is the standardisation of waiting lists for all those diseases that have now been suspended because we were in an emergency. It is a form of responsibility of the State-Regions chain, starting from the verification of the updated essential levels of continuous assistance, to guarantee the promotion of prevention inside and outside the hospital. It is necessary to strengthen territorial medicine, with appropriate hospitalisation of the patient and with application of differentiated regionalism and solidarity, recognizing greater functions to the regions fulfilling the indicated new levels of prevention, promotion, health and assistance, adding, for example, to the greater resources of the European funds with finalizations of adequate incremental resources in the regions with lower levels of health care. Furthermore, Minister, the national network of Covid and post-Covid hospitals should be put in place, making those facilities already complete by the necessary pro-Covid for other purposes usable. I am also thinking of upgrading the small and medium-sized hospitals which had recently been closed and dismantled in connection with the huge cuts that health care has undergone everywhere. Never, Minister, as now in the territories it is necessary to have hospitals and small hospitals. In this regard, I apologize if I take advantage of it, I can think of my beautiful island, Sardinia, which lacks so much attention; in particular, I can think of the Maddalena archipelago and its hospital "Paolo Merlo." You see, at Maddalena there are 11,800 inhabitants in winter, but they risk to be 50,000 in summer. The emergency department, the focal point of health care on the island, should operate, Minister, twenty-four hours a day, for emergency, emergency and first-aid services. I would like to address one very important issue: on 16 March 2020 it was downgraded, Minister, only to the white and green codes, in theory preventing the intervention of the yellow and red codes, transforming the First Aid into a little more than an advanced medical guard. The transfer of patients takes place in an ambulance, or in a helicopter, when it is done in time, before the patient dies, but in any case this cannot replace a First Aid. Shall we talk about the obstetrics department? The mother risks her life, the baby is born dead in Olbia, after hours of waiting; it happened a few months ago. The obstetrics department has been closed for three years, as well as the operating room; there is no birth point. We know that, by law, 500 births a year are required to have a birth point, but you, a kind Minister, have been on your table for a hundred and twenty-nine days, a request for a derogation that you have not yet signed. Please intervene as soon as possible; or do we wait for some other mother or child to die in 2020? The Maddalena in summer, as I said, reaches 45,000 inhabitants, with a catchment area that also includes Palau and Santa Teresa di Gallura. How will we be able to welcome tourists after the difficulties that caused us the serious crisis due to Covid, if citizens and tourists themselves do not feel safe due to the lack of efficient health facilities and hospitals? I look forward to your reply, thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u135	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u136	Mr President, I have heard in this House claim that the Venetian model would be born of a virtuous action by the regional administration. Dots should then be put on the i, because at the end of January, after the state of emergency had been declared, while China was perhaps at the climax of the problem for the coronavirus, in a far-sighted way Professor Crisanti and the hospital company of Padua, had prepared a program to make swabs on the people who came back from China; therefore, not pockets made at random, but on a category at risk well defined. Well, the Venetian Director-General of Health, Domenico Mantoan, intervened to say that this could not be done. We would have had an extreme need to identify cases early, which then punctually exploded at Vo' Euganeo and not only in the province of Padua, which became the second most serious outbreak in Italy. Instead, this program was blocked, even if it involved a figure of perhaps 10,000-20,000 euros, hiding behind a circular: it hid behind a circular a Region that asks autonomy over everything. I then find it strange to think that today we can claim this far-sightedness when it was contested, also because shortly afterwards, "carved on the road to Damascus," Luke - but not St. Luke, Luca Zaia - changed course completely and, finally, at Vo' Euganeo had the swabs run on all the still limited population, to the point - intoxicated I don't know from what substance or suggestion - to propose carpet swabs to all the Venetians. On this Domenico Mantoan did not intervene; then, he hid behind a circular when it was a few hundred swabs; he said nothing when he proposed to make 5 million. Maybe he was distracted by his many assignments. Five million swabs in Veneto, albeit with the praiseworthy capacities that the Region has developed in the meantime, would have taken a year simply for the first time in the past, with the result then not having a data not even useful at the statistical level because in the meantime it became obsolete. Well, these choices have been criticized by a regional councillor in Veneto, Jacopo Berti, who is today accused of those statements. Professor Crisanti said that we are trying to rewrite history for petty electoral purposes. I have to say this again and in this House I am trying to restore the truth of things. [[Applause.]] It is not a good demonstration, in the electoral campaign, to try to camouflage the reality; which, moreover, was also done with a manager of the Hospitaller Company in Padua for the simple fact that he claimed that Zaia's masks were almost useless. This accusation, being based on falsehood, has fallen, but the fact remains; the fact remains that Zaia's masks have not even been worn by you in this Chamber. [[Applause]] Mr President, I therefore believe that we must recognise to the Veneto Region the merits it has had but that it cannot take those of others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u137	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u138	Mr President, Minister, as we have repeatedly said in this House, we have been dealing with the greatest health emergency of recent times and we have managed it with commitment, dedication and competence. The loss of human lives has been enormous, yet our health service has supported, especially thanks to the excellence of our human capital: doctors, nurses, all the health personnel; but great was also the commitment of the Government and Parliament, who have constantly worked to update the norms and forecasts according to an epidemiological framework that was emerging over time. Having approved today, in this Chamber, the decree-law that sheds light on the investigation of seroprevalence, started precisely on the initiative of the Ministry of Health, is yet another sign of how much this Government has at heart the health of the country. The mapping of the population is, in fact, the most effective tool to prevent any rise in the contagion curve, because the virus is still in circulation. The numbers we detect now, at a time when there is a low viral circulation, thanks also to the containment measures put in place, may not represent the real danger of this infection. That is why we must not give credit to those who are boasting that the virus has disappeared, to the new conspiracyists, to those who demand freedom from the mask, even in the face of hundreds of new cases and dozens of deaths, to those who irresponsiblely fill the streets, in spite of all the health regulations [[Applause]] , waving anti-government slogans, calling into question even the need for lockdown measures that we know - from estimates based on certain numbers, recently published also on "Nature" - how many lives they have saved. Those who deny all this are offending the more than 34,000 Italians who died of Covid in an atrocious way, without breath and in solitude, away from their loved ones. Yet, in order to save these people our health care staff has worked without saving themselves, putting in place all their skills and knowledge, to develop more and more innovative and effective take-over protocols and care. We didn't know this virus, at first we thought it was just respiratory, then we realized that the respiratory phase followed one of activation of the immune system, complement and coagulation, so the therapeutic protocols were also updated, simplifying the process of approval of the use of off-label drugs and new trials. Today it is clear to everyone what the EUR 37 billion of health cuts have meant in ten years, the 71,000 beds lost [[Applause]] and the 46,000 doctors and nurses that public health has lost. Today it is clear what it has meant to reduce general medicine to a place of health recipes and the First Aid and short intensive observations to overloaded places at high risk of turning into real outbreaks, as happened in this case. Today it is clear what it meant not to have provided isolation departments and to have reduced beds in intensive care. Today it is clear what it has meant not to invest in health care in those sectors that represent the first bulwark in the rescue of human lives, such as emergency and emergency-emergency, places where health workers fight every day in conditions of absolute precariousness, suffering frequent aggressions. In this regard, we welcome with relief the approval of the House of the bill that protects health workers from aggression, which will shortly return to the Senate for final approval. But now that the worst has passed, Minister, we must critically review the health policies of the last decade and put in place, as you yourself said, courageous choices. All this must necessarily go through a real strengthening of territorial health care. The reorganization of the territory was actually already one of the crucial points of the Health Pact 2019-2021, because since the beginning of this legislature we have asked loudly for the strengthening of residential and semi-residential home care for the management of chronicities and non-self-sufficiency. The recent report on the coordination of public finances of the Court of Auditors has confirmed the validity of our vision, highlighting how the National Health Service is suffering because the proper attention has not been paid in the development of territorial health and has not invested sufficiently in the integration between hospital and territory, impoverishing the public sector and giving space to a private health accredited no longer complementary, but substitute. Today the strengthening of territorial health is finally at the heart of the political agenda and the resources allocated to this end in the decree-law relaunch. However, it cannot be thought that these resources are being poured out in order to consolidate a territorial health system which has proved to be far from capable of carrying out the function of filtering and taking care of the health needs of the population. It is of strategic importance to promote work in multi-disciplinary and multi-professional teams. It is necessary to question the overcoming of the capitarian quota, implementing systems of measurement of the performances that enhance the merit also in the territory. Clinical and welfare data generated in the field of territorial assistance must become the heritage of the National Health Service and of researchers working in public research institutions. The further increase in specialized training contracts is also strategic: in two years, we have increased from 6,000 to 9,200 contracts, aware that it is not enough to fill the training funnel created by years of inability to program according to the needs of specialists. With the decree I raise finally we add another 4,200 but we cannot stop because tomorrow we have more medical specialists and guarantee our young graduates to be able to form in their own country is a goal that we must chase with all our strength. Finally, we must make the best use of the opportunities that new technologies offer us. The challenge to be faced and overcome is to aim for a health care that uses the most innovative technological tools, starting with a radical digitalisation of the sector. We have to recover ground after years of paralysis. A study carried out by the Digital Innovation Observatory in Health revealed that most citizens now use at least one online service. It is enough to see the high acceptance and adherence of citizens to the digitalized medical recipe that we introduced in the course of this emergency Covid. How useful it would have been in this pandemic emergency to have telemedicine tools to monitor patients at home, as the availability in the territory of primary care facilities, multidisciplinary teams and capillary home care would have made it possible to make more timely diagnosis. Italy has paid a high price for not having invested in medical and health training, for not being able to plan medical professionalism needs according to the need for health of the population and on the basis of epidemiological data, for not having given the right recognition to professionals in terms of career progression and pay, pushing so many talents, young and not, to flee abroad or to find refuge in the private sector. It is then the time to reverse the course, or rather to embark on that course that we, in reality, have seen drawn for a long time and that with tenacity we have tried to undertake for two years now to guarantee Italian citizens, from North to South, uniformity and fairness of access to care. The pandemic has highlighted all the fragility of a fragmented National Health Service, which we must reconstruct and rebuild from the foundations, starting precisely from the training of operators and from the investments in quality in the substance, in the name of that famous article 32 of the Constitution that establishes the right to care for all indistinguishable and that today must be pursued also by the new means that science and technology offer us. We must certainly invest decisively in this direction, in personalized medicine, in predictive medicine, in population genomics, in prevention, in translational health research that must represent a flywheel of development for the country system, in the transformation of our hospitals into hubs made efficient thanks to the use of artificial intelligence, digitized, connected to the research agencies, the territory or to other centers located in other parts of the country and the world. We are in a moment of epochal passage and we must build the future of this country looking to the world that we have imagined for a long time and that today we have the power to make real. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, before closing the debate, I would like to address Senator Endrizzi. Unfortunately, I did not hear what you said and I apologise to this House because it is not acceptable. [[Applause]] Speaking to Governor Zaia, and talking about the swabs he was going to use, he said he was going to decide it in the grip of some substance or suggestion. Now, these references cannot be made here; it is not acceptable for such behaviour to be drawn up in this House. It's not acceptable. [[Applause]] I believe that respect is the basis, the precondition for a debate in this House. Everyone can express what they want. I am of the Veneto Region and I know well what happened and what happened, as well as you. You can have your opinion, but you would not be able to express it in this House, but always with respect and not with innuendo of behavior of this kind. In fact, the word'subject' that you used is not admissible, because it is seriously offensive to Governor Zaia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u142	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I apologise because I recognise that the expression was misunderstanding. Of course, I did not mean "amazing substance" and I immediately repaired it using the term: "suggestion". I believe that the content of my speech should not be confused with that word, which I acknowledge was misunderstanding, but that was not my intention. I didn't allude to drugs. That wasn't my intention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u143	We note your apology. I declare closed the debate on the Minister of Health's communications. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Pirro, Boldrini, Errani, Parente and Laniece, and No 2 by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other Senators. Mr Minister, I apologise, but the television broadcast scheduled for your reply starts in three minutes, so I would ask you for patience, for your reply and for your opinions, to wait for the live TV. I apologise for this brief suspension only to allow RAI to connect with us. (The sitting was suspended at 7.07 p.m. and resumed at 7.10 p.m.) I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. I call on the Minister for Health, Mr Hope, to respond, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to those who have spoken in this debate, to all the senators and senators who have done so. This is the first time that we have followed a regulatory provision passed recently, Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. What is the substantial novelty? Until a few weeks ago the government's measures were communicated to Parliament at a later stage of approval, which took place through the signing of the President of the Council of Ministers, with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, or through the approval of the decree-laws. Innovation, which we are experiencing for the first time in today's debate, requires a government delegate, a member of the government, in this case the Minister of Health, to come to the Chamber and, before the signing of a measure, to listen to the debate, to invent and assume the direction and the point of view of Parliament. I believe that this is a positive and important fact. The rule may not be perfect, but it is certainly a step forward, which allows us - I say this as a Minister who co-signs the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers - to build a measure that can take into account what comes from Parliament. What time are we? We are in a still complicated moment in the history of our country, I believe we have an obligation to tell the truth to those who listen to us. The country has experienced difficult months, as never before seen in recent history. It was probably the most difficult moment in republican history after World War II. For this reason, every word of ours must be weighed very carefully and it seems to me that the debate we have heard has largely lived up to the difficulty of this historical passage. We have had to approve very difficult measures. I say this with great sincerity. I say this for myself that I have signed them, for the Presidents of the Region, that they have all been called to difficult choices, anything but obvious, I say it clearly for the Government, that it has been faced with a totally new season. Having to take measures that have limited people's freedom is really something that has no precedent in our country's history. What are the numbers and data telling us today, not only those of our country but also international data? That those measures, even if difficult, even if complicated, even if capable of depriving people of freedom (and I believe there is nothing more enormous and more striking for those who perform institutional functions), were, in some way, indispensable measures. Without these measures, the country would have paid a much higher price. Allow me to reiterate this, with the utmost humility and with the utmost sense of the State and the institutions: without these dramatic measures and without the awareness and responsibility of millions of Italians and Italians who have respected these norms that we have put on the field, the number of victims would have been really much higher and the price that the whole country would have paid, in terms of human lives and also in economic terms, really much more significant. Just look up for a moment and look at what still happens in so many other countries of the world in these hours. The truth is that the climate in Europe is better. The measures taken in Italy and then the measures taken in Europe have bent the curve on the right side, but the virus has not disappeared, the virus is not finished. Just look up and see what happens in these hours, in these minutes, in South America, in Brazil, in Peru or even in North America or in some countries of Asia and you realize how much more we are faced with a difficult, insidious enemy that we have learned to know in these months and that thanks to the extraordinary work of our doctors, our nurses, our health workers (which I want to thank once again for the extraordinary work they have done) and thanks to our scientists, we are now learning to know better. So where does Italy go? I think that Italy is going to a different stage than we have been through so far, but that it is going there and should go there with the utmost caution and the utmost caution. It is clear that, after the months of lockdown, we need a gradual re-opening. We began to carry out this process of graduality with the measures of 4 May, then with the measures of 18 May and then, again, with other constraints that have skipped on 3 June. On 14 June (i.e. in a few days) the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers will expire and we will be called upon to build a new one, even in the light of the debate held today, in order to try to continue along this path. With the monitoring that we have built in recent weeks with the Higher Institute of Health, the Ministry of Health (of course) and all the Italian Regions that have participated constantly, we are in a position to continue in this trajectory. The enemy is not defeated: we still have to give the utmost attention and rigour. However, I feel I can say that the work we have done so far puts us in a position to continue with the greatest degree and prudence the re-opening process that we have started since 4 May. There is one last point that I particularly care about and that I think is important to make in the debate in a solemn forum such as that of the Senate of the Republic. I believe that the country must learn to the full from this lesson. If we want to fully honour the enormous and incredible price that the country has paid at such a difficult time of its existence, we must all try together to learn the lesson of these months. For me the priority lesson is and will always remain the same: our National Health Service is really the most precious stone we have. Respect for Article 32 of the Constitution, which recognises the fundamental and solemn importance of health protection as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, must be a commitment of our entire national community. For me the basic lesson is this: to definitively close the season of cuts at the National Health Service. [[Applause.]] I repeat, to close it permanently and to say that a new stage of investment is being opened. We need more resources. Over the last few months, we've started a journey. Let me tell you again with all the strength I have: in five months we have put more resources on the National Health Service than they have been in the last five years. Enough? I don't think so; I think it's just the beginning, but it's the right direction to move. And - still - certainly more resources, but not only. We also need the courage to reform more, because it is a precious stone that was born with the law of 23 December 1978, n. 833, which I consider the most qualifying law in the history of this country. It is a law to be proud of, because it establishes that ours is a universal health service; "Universal" simply means that if a person is ill he does not count how much money he has, who he is a son, from which territory he comes: he has the right to be treated. [[Applause.]] I am proud of a country that has a National Health Service with a universalist facility. But what is the point now? The point is that it is not enough to say how beautiful that precious stone is: a precious stone you must cure it, even adapting it to a new time. The Covid gives us a terrifying lesson: he told us very clearly what worked and what didn't. Republican institutions - not one part, not the Government, not only the Regions or the Municipalities, but the Republican institutions as a whole - are today called to this fundamental challenge, that is to rethink our National Health Service, starting from some essential guidelines. I think the first guideline, the strongest, is precisely the centrality of the territories. In many speeches I listened carefully to this message was present. In the phase of austerity and cuts we have deprived pieces of our country's territories of the indispensable sanitary garrisons, which, in my opinion, have to be reported in some way in a relationship of citizenship, relationship and closeness with people and citizens. I think - and I conclude - that this must be everyone's challenge. I say this with all the strength I have: it is not the challenge of a Minister, a President of the Region, a Member of Parliament, a mayor or any other. It must be the challenge of the country system and we must try to transform the crisis that has occurred, the tragedy and the huge price that we have paid as a country in a great opportunity to restart and relaunch. A ruling class that is up to its function must try to play exactly this challenge towards the future. For this reason I think that, when there is to defend the right to health, we must have the courage to collaborate, not to divide, not to clash, but to try together to reason in order to build a possible future that transforms, precisely, this difficulty in the ability to unite our country and bring it to the realization of these objectives. That is why I thank you for the debate that has taken place so far. I think it is valuable and I will take it to the Council of Ministers, which will then lead us to adopt the new decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, because the last one expires at midnight on 14 June. So we'll have a few more days to work on it. Tomorrow I will be in the Chamber of Deputies, where I will be in the same debate, and I will listen with the same attention to the explanations of vote that will follow my quick reply. With regard to the resolutions that have been tabled, I should like to reflect on two resolutions: one by the majority, signed by the majority leaders, and one by the opposition. I believe that the resolution tabled by the opposition forces is worthy not only of a positive or negative opinion that a Minister and a Government must give, but of a reflection. I think that the purpose of our discussion is to offer, as stated in paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19, an address to the Government that the DPCM must do. The subject of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is linked to the reopenings that we still have to do, with all the gradualness and prudence. In the resolution tabled by the opposition forces in this House there are many important and strategic points, which can, in my opinion, be put on the table of a serious debate that I would like to do in the spirit I tried to point out earlier, but which is not closely linked to the matter of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. We should decide what to do about the Shengen area. I have told you my opinion: for me there are no health conditions in the world to reduce immediately, for example, quarantine conditions for non-European countries, as we have done for European countries. We should also discuss and reason about the choices on sports performance in this decree. Now our evaluation is that there are the conditions to resume the championship and play the semi-finals and the finals of the Italian Cup. In the resolution tabled by the groups on my right there are a number of indications on which I am willing to reason, to discuss and to confront myself, but there are no conditions from my point of view to assume them in a resolution linked to the definition of a DPCM which, on the other hand, is closely linked to the reopening measures that we must decide from here in the next few hours. The resolution presented by the majority forces, although much shorter, gives a clear indication, that is, it says that we must continue this process of reopening, that we must do so with prudence and graduality and that the country, starting from the data of the monitoring, can courageously try to face this new challenge of continuation of the path that I have tried quickly to indicate. This is the only reason why I am fully prepared to discuss some points of substance, which I agree with, and which I believe we need to put in place in the debate on the reform of the National Health Service, and I am clearly not positive about the resolution of the minority groups and a positive opinion on the resolution of the majority groups. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u145	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u148	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Minister Hope, you reminded us that we are firmly, compared to the Rt index, below the threshold of 1 and the strategy put in place by the Government in this case, with the plan of gradual reopenings after May 4, is actually leading to satisfactory results, albeit with some criticalities. Now, if you will allow me, the most difficult and, therefore, the most difficult phase comes with respect to hygiene regulations, the use of masks, social distance. Businesses and businesses are responding with great rigour to these measures. Unfortunately, however, we still read too often of gatherings, particularly in the evening, which give rise to some concern. It would be devastating if public perception were to settle the belief that the return to normality coincides with the defeat of the virus. I therefore fully agree with you, when you call not to send contradictory messages, feeding a surreal division into pessimistic and optimistic. The truth is that personal behavior will determine or not a second wave, a possibility that from an economic point of view would be devastating, which is why calls for responsibility must be even stronger and pressing. It takes such a basis to develop a policy that, in addition to the principles of prudence and proportionality, is guided by the logic of programming. The leap in quality to be made is not so much in the speed of reaction, but in the ability to imagine multiple scenarios, so that the interventions are the least invasive possible for the socio-economic seal but serve to heal the many wounds caused by the lockdown with which we begin to deal now. We all know, for example, that hospital facilities in recent months have postponed non-urgent interventions, inevitably leading to a worsening of the condition of these patients and an extension of waiting lists in diagnostics. I therefore believe that in phase 3 a major objective is precisely this of normalizing our health system and therefore giving full attention to all categories of patients. Similar falls are found in all fields. Visible are the economic repercussions, visible is the increase of social inequalities, with the prolonged closure of schools, visible is the greater exposure of the weakest sections of the population, visible is the effect of the closure of borders for border territories, with the impoverishment of social and economic life. We therefore need a total, 360-degree strategy in which a valuable role can be played, for example, by the Immuni app and yet, as has also been denounced in the Commission, it is not yet clear how citizens will behave in the event of contact with the infection. We wonder whether the citizens will have to go into quarantine, whether they will be subjected to a buffer, whether they will be alerted to all the people who have been in contact with them and even if there are no symptoms, and what will be and for how many people and what protocol will be to follow. These are some of the questions that people ask themselves. I would add that in this four-month period of epidemic there are certainly many scientific medical aspects to be clarified and it is normal. It cannot be expected that in four months there can be perfect medical diagnosis and therapy protocols, sometimes it takes years to establish these aspects. I am referring to immunological tests, which we discussed this morning in the debate on the draft law which will entrust Istat with this important sampling of the population. How long does immunization last? What is the validity of the tests? Unfortunately, during this period we have also seen a commodity of these tests, which are not respectful of the population, which, of course, must be severely censored. What is the validity of therapeutic protocols? I do not hide that I, as a doctor, have sometimes found myself in difficulty reading some news, such as the one about the perplexity that was even launched by an authoritative scientific journal on the use of hydroxychloroquine. We all know how hydroxychloroquine was one of the cornerstones of Covid-19 therapy at this time. I therefore believe that phase 3 is an important moment for an in-depth scientific discussion, of course according to the strict scientific method, in order to give as certain protocols as possible of diagnosis and therapy, precisely to prepare ourselves for a possible new wave in the autumn. I believe that, especially for the scientific world, this is the first objective. Minister, I believe that the pandemic also shows other things, such as the importance of family medicine. I have already mentioned the importance of my colleagues, the family doctors. I believe that there should be an important debate sooner or later on the function of general medicine, which really is the pillar of medicine on the ground. It will be necessary to decide what to do to the family doctors, who represented an important actor, especially during this epidemic. I therefore believe that we must rethink the role of this important part of health on the ground. As regards the strengthening of primary prevention, I believe that we really need to launch a forward-looking primary prevention policy for the real well-being of the population. The improvement of health care on the territory also passes for a better connection between hospital structures and territory. I am thinking, for example, in a concrete way, of the creation of departments that deal precisely with the connection between the patients to be discharged, especially the fragile people and the elderly, and the structures on the territory, such as health care residences. I believe that these are important suggestions, just as you and other colleagues have already mentioned, the full development of telemedicine, especially in disadvantaged areas, such as my mountain territory, is crucial. Let us not forget that programming, the construction of scenarios and the attention to the side effects of interventions are key points in order to manage this very difficult moment in the near future. Before concluding, I too would like to thank all the actors in the health professions, who have really worked exceptionally during this period to deal with a situation which, as you also mentioned, Minister, did not have equal status in the post-war period. With these wishes, I announce the vote of the Group for Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV) on the motion for a majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u150	You have the right to do so. I'm asking you to intervene from a different location than yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u151	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, today's sitting is very important in relation to the drafting of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers which will take place in the coming days, by the Council of Ministers and, above all, by the President of the Council. It is therefore important that we do so and that the indications which will come from this House are really heard and included in the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, beyond the motions for resolutions, which are of course important, even if they have the characteristic of having to be concise. Among other things, we will be called upon to vote on the decree-law on restarts, whose deadline for tabling amendments expires next week, and therefore, Minister, we will be aware of this contradiction: today we are debating the new measure and, in the meantime, we are tabling amendments to a decree that we are debating. Therefore, today's sitting is important and it is also important to take note of the new reality, which you have described to us well, but which I would like to emphasise. On 18 May, when the old decree of the President of the Council of Ministers came into force, the new positives were 451 and yesterday there were 280; the patients with symptoms were 10,027 and yesterday there were 4,581; the inpatients in intensive care were 749, while now there are 263, according to the figure emerged yesterday, therefore little more than a third. Well, by virtue of these figures, a new measure must be made, much more courageous, because if we were to issue a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, which is the photocopy of that of 18 May, by virtue of the data that show us a clearly improved condition in the country, it would be a missed opportunity. So, beyond the controversy, that there are among those who say that the situation is more or less dangerous, I think it is objective that today the virus is less lethal and the data confirm it. So, Minister, on behalf of the entire Government, we ask you to make a decree from the President of the Council of Ministers that is more courageous. Of course we must succeed in getting the country out of fear, because it has been corrected, in the phase of the forced lockdown, that there were hard messages also towards citizenship, but as was correct this attitude in the past, today is a correct attitude that of those who say to be careful, because they can return and there are risks, that we must guarantee the protections and the distances, but at the same time that we can transmit that tranquility, that allows the Italians to carry out their lives as normal as possible, compared to the emergency condition that we have lived in the past. I was reading in the newspaper today the statements of a restaurateur, Bianchini, that fear has taken away their work. Being able to transmit a message of tranquillity, in addition to the assurances on the subject of protections, is as important as economic maneuvers. If we can pass on to the Italians the message for which we can go out, we can do it safely and we can live a life as normal as possible, waiting that, as you said, Minister, we will have to live with this virus until the vaccine is discovered, in addition to the psychological transmission of a concept that I think is correct, we can also allow ourselves to invest a little less economic resources, giving more strength to those who are restarting their economic activity, after having experienced a moment of great hardness. If anything, we must prepare ourselves, on the basis of experience, also to close up, if a further epidemic should explode, even possibly identifying new red areas. However, I believe that to leave with clarity and transmit serenity and tranquility to Italians is indispensable, of course in compliance with all the prescriptions that serve. Since the number of cases is lower, we can enhance the swabs and virological tests. So we can act with tools that up to now have been at times ineffective, precisely because of the large number of swabs or tests to be done which also corresponded to a lack of experience of our country in the use of these tools. Minister, a long time ago there was a study published by the daily newspaper "Il Fatto Quotidiano" in which it was expected that on June 8th, that is the date of yesterday, which saw 283 people hospitalized in intensive care, there would be 151,000 admissions in intensive care. Do you realize, Minister, that if these are the messages that pass by and if we do not also take care of this form of communication, that it is important for the institutions to do correctly, then the risk is that the condition of fear mentioned by the restaurateur I referred to earlier might arise? In all the prescriptions, we must avoid falling into ridicule; I am referring to the prescriptions that have been made by the regions, but also to the prescriptions made at national level. I think we need to get out of the condition that there are two-hour queues to enter the facilities where shoes or clothes are sold, due to excessively restrictive prescriptions. I expect a concrete response from the President-in-Office of the Council on this point. We also need to be a little more flexible with regard to NCCs and taxis, for example in determining how many people can stay in a taxi, because these are sectors that risk a crisis. The same applies to cinemas, where you can't sell drinks and food, or workouts, with small spaces and often contingent entrances. If we take note of the fact that the situation has changed, we must also do so in the forecasts of the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, trying to create the conditions for there to be a real reopening and preventing them from being charged to the citizens of the "Covid" taxes, because all those who have commercial or economic agencies charge on the receipts the additional costs to be met. It's amazing that Tridico is talking about lazy and opportunist entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] I believe that, if we offer a hybrid model, that is, we allow to open, but under such conditions that an entrepreneur risks to lose himself, the latter before opening will do two accounts, to see if it is better or not to have the fund to pay the employees or have to fire them later. In addition to stigmatizing the intervention in which Tridico attacks entrepreneurs, who are actually the victims of this system, I believe that we must avoid these absurd hybrids, which put in trouble those who do business. On the other hand, requirements are made that allow to open up also by building a turnover and being able to achieve advantageous economic conditions. I think about discos: it's ridiculous this story of two meters away on the dance floors, also prohibiting eating at the counter or providing for online booking. At this point, let us keep them closed, instead of laying down requirements that lead to an economic activity that is not advantageous; of course if you keep them closed, Minister, then you must guarantee them the economic resources they do not earn. I am also thinking of the beach shores, Minister; Mayor Decaro talks about the theme of the distance between deck chairs on the beach. There too, we will have to be more flexible than requirements which are likely to become excessively restrictive. There is also a ban on two riding in motion; I think this too is ridiculous. In Abruzzo, to name a Region, they even came to regulate football matches, banning slips. I believe that all this is truly incredible and risks creating elements of fear and fear is the element that most of all can damage many exercises and many businesses in Italy economically. [[Applause.]] As well as the judicial offices, Minister; today the lawyers have been shocked. These offices can reopen. There's a huge delay. The Italian justice with the coronavirus has accumulated an even greater delay. As well as the state; one in three are still in smart working. If it is a "manager" choice, it is fine, but if it is a choice due to coronavirus risk, I believe that by virtue of the data, we are in a position, even there, to be more flexible and to build a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers more open. I would not like to say that we told you this, but I see data from other European countries, those who have decided not to close schools, or to close down just a few classes, and I note that they are identical to ours. Perhaps we should have been a little more courageous, Minister, and precisely by virtue of this consideration, I say to you that surely in September we will have to guarantee the reopening, doing it without abstruse things, plexiglas style, or anything else. [[Applause.]] We must guarantee it by allowing, with the flexibility of time and the spaces that cities make available to us, the possibility of opening them in absolute normality. In conclusion, with regard to mobility, we are talking about domestic tourism and therefore about the need to facilitate it and then we are going to see that a Milan-Greece or Milan-Spain flight costs less than a Milan-Palermo or Milan-Catania flight. The same issue concerns trains. Then either we intervene on this issue and therefore we create a condition of advantage also for mobility within the national territory, or we really risk doing something in half. Therefore, a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, which is certainly safe for the Italians, but at the same time we expect a real breakthrough from the new measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u154	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, Minister, I will not speak in favour of a camera. I guarantee it; Mr Pharaoh has already filled the space [[Applause]] , so much to make me feel that this direct is really deleterious. This morning a Freudian lapsus of the kind colleague, this evening my colleague Pharaoh trying to fill a pindaric flight with a lot of climbing on the mirrors. We very much appreciate the new scheme of approach, which provides, as we remember, the prior authorization by the Chambers of contents of the various decrees that you will go to dismiss in the future. Let's say, Minister, since this scheme of approach provides for the need to make communications rather than informative and, therefore, the need for the groups present in Parliament to draw up documents, it would be appropriate, since we are at the beginning, for you to hand over a document to us in order to avoid then making motions for resolutions that perhaps try to guess what the Minister of the Chair will say when he comes to report. Beyond the problem of method, I wanted here to mean the following. As you will recall, Minister, because we have already talked about this on other occasions, I have appreciated your commitment. I remember that you called us for a meeting, which I greatly appreciated, and we also exchanged interesting views both in that meeting and later in the Chamber. Then, Minister, I must tell you that I have felt a sort of underestimation and under-exposition of your role. If it was under exposure, let's say that within a government that instead filled us with a diorama of exhibitions, this in the end, all in all, may have been positive. It would be different if - as I fear, to judge from the facts - it had been a matter of underestimation, making a bit of a pot of stone even in a pandemic emergency compared to a government of alleged iron vessels, so we saw Arcuri doing the minister. We have seen Boccia, who, as a new planner, said that in Umbria there was a danger absolutely to be cared for; as a planner, in fact, since Umbria was, and is - thank God - the safest region among all Italian ones, having the least number of cases both in hospitalizations and in infections. We have seen, in short, a succession of statements by people, who engaged fictitiously in the relationship with the citizen, compared to what should instead have been his role, also of approach and communication, which certainly did not bear fruit, Minister. In fact, they've given up some sort of disarray. We had a long time certainly problematic, but in the problematic it has added a difficulty of information: the citizens, that is, were at the mercy of the guest on duty from Giletti and in the various broadcasts, of which I am not here to advertise naturally. I want to hope, Minister - indeed, I have the absolute certainty - that this sort of undervalued role, once regained the serenity and tranquility of having passed - hopefully, we do all the necessary aversions - the most ugly emergent phase, give it the cue, the desire and the energy to recover. This is our hope. For example, Minister, yesterday we wrote a page in my opinion important: we have drawn up a unitary document; stuff to communicate with the grandcassa! We have been able to draw up, also thanks to the favourable opinion expressed by your Ministry and the Government, a unitary document which, as far as I am concerned, contains many interesting points, such as the plasma bank and many others (you will have read it, of course, I am not here to remember them). As far as we are concerned, the very innovative and interesting element is the absolute need to proceed, Minister, to a deep screening of the population. We have had a great deal of talk about this, we have had a lot of talk in the Commission, with President Collina. We have a process to do with the lack of validation of the tests on the market by the Ministry that, while working very quickly to validate the serological tests (the ones of the measure voted this morning, the Abbot tests, to understand us), has left the entire national community completely unaware on the rapid tests, which instead are of great diffusion, so much so that all the Regions are adopting them, so that all the companies have bought them and are using them. All this in the absence of a serious and definitive opinion of the Ministry through its network of competences and knowledge of the scientific community that the Ministry refers to. In my opinion, that was not what had to be said, but it would have been much better to say which tests were most reliable and which were not; in the end, if it was considered that the rapid pricked serological tests were not reliable, the Ministry should have said not to use them, to remove them from circulation. Today, however, we have had to witness total freedom of use, even probably spreading misleading messages in the results of these tests. Minister, since we have approved the agenda, we are proceeding quickly to a real screening. Can you, with the entire chain of competences that refer to the Ministry, tell us through which instrument, with which resources, with which protocol of use the Regions, the Civil Protection, the doctors of general medicine, the territorial structures will be able to act to carry out 10-15 million tests in the next thirty-forty days? Because this is needed, Minister, this is needed. We cannot think of reopening all activities, as Pharaoh says in favor of camera, without knowing what we are facing, without finding those asymptomatic ones that you rightly recalled exist in this infection. Until today we have done the easiest thing, and we have done it well: we have traced the symptoms, but they are evident on their own, because people are sick. Today we have to find those who do not have the symptoms, we said it far and wide. It is absolutely urgent to do so and we cannot think of reopening all the activities, risking a new lockdown, because that is. Everyone must assume their responsibilities, even with difficult choices. Politics must loosen the knots, even taking its responsibilities. Now, you have obviously referred to the need to take advantage of this pause and the reset that has necessarily undergone the National Health Service, also - I add - taking advantage of the enormous amount of resources that will come to it in the months and years to come, to act with great reforms. Very well: I am the first to recommend this. Last year we celebrated forty years of National Health Service, there is no doubt that it must be reformed and there is no doubt that the universalistic service that Italy is the flagship should also be safeguarded. We all share it, let alone we share it, that we are patriots. In order to save the National Health Service, however, Minister, it is not enough to say that it is beautiful and good, that it works and must find more money, rightly: we must know how to reform it, with one eye to the changed conditions, such as the ageing of the population, the chronicization of so many diseases that previously led to rapid death, etc. You already know all these things, it is not that you do not know: we find the courage to face them. We told ourselves this and we exchanged this concept and I believe and hope that all the time he spent resting - let me say it: maybe he didn't sleep so much, but let's say that he rested, in the sense that he didn't participate in the broadcasts and recovered that time - he invested him to prepare us and prepare us for a serious reform of the National Health Service that includes so many things that at this moment obviously doesn't need to be here to remember. I was saying that yesterday we set a very good example, Mr President: I believe that we have tried to work on this too to restore the role and place of this institution, and we have done so with the contribution of all of us. Today we must follow up on that commitment which must not remain on paper, but must be translated into numbers, already by this next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Brothers of Italy Group, as far as it is concerned, will therefore be vigilant and attentive to read in this next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers the provision of the necessary resources to proceed, through the structure of the Regions and Civil Protection, to a deep screening of the population, the only means to be able to reopen with the necessary serenity and tranquility. Statistical games are not enough. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u157	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Minister, we share your thoughts and your proposals. We enjoyed your work at such a difficult time. We have behind us dramatic months for the Italians, first of all for the victims (34,000 are too many, really, and we must never forget it), but also for the necessary choices that the Italians have understood, even if they have been very hard, with very heavy consequences on the economic, social and - I would not want to underestimate it, especially for the next few months - also psychological. Italians need to understand and clear answers. I respect the debate on science, which must be discussed in this way, but then we need policy choices. I'm convinced of that. We have done so, and we have to do it more and more. We will have to discuss, reason and understand what has happened. I said it and I say it again. We must not hide mistakes and limitations, without trial, without throwing the first stone. We need to understand if we want to learn from what happened. Some things we have already clearly understood: firstly, the National Health Service, public and universalist, is an indispensable resource that before the coronavirus we did not treat as it deserved. [[Applause]] Now we have to reverse this trend. I am delighted that all my colleagues, majority and opposition, agree on this point. For me it is a very important value, because I do not forget that before the coronavirus so many views explained to us that a national and universalist health system was unsustainable. The era of cuts is over and the era of accountants and economicians who govern health care is over. It's over for good. Moreover, I hope we will also have learned a second lesson, although I am less sure. We are faced with strategic choices. We are faced with a great issue of radical change in this country. We are right to question the role of Parliament. That's right, it's always right. I think the general states are fine, but the fundamental thing that we have to discuss in this House, in this House, is the vision that we propose to Italy, the strategy, the breath, because that security that Senator Pharaoh also spoke about, we do not give it on this or that propaganda note. We give it if we offer a future or propose a future to our country. That is the point and in this regard - let us face it - the democratic dialectic between majority and opposition, the different positions are really a wealth if we all decide not to bomb the institutions together; if within the institutions we tell ourselves what we have to say and we each assume our own responsibilities. I am concerned that Italy remains itself, because since before the coronavirus we could not afford it. Italy cannot remain itself. I think we should all make an effort because I hear statements that have already been made too often, I hear things that are too obvious; instead, we would need a breakthrough. Everything changes because nothing changes: this country cannot To afford it. So, speaking of vision and dialectic between us, do we need a new model of development in this country? Yes. The key is ecological transition, yes or no? We've got to get out of here. What do public industries do about this? Does Enel make her columns in Italy? I'm saying this because he's doing it in Germany. I also wonder whether we are able to build a plan, a programme capable of doing all this, and that is to start a process of transformation that is indispensable. This is called industrial policy, and it is not the old state vision, but industrial policy. I inform you that in the United States, in England, in France, in Germany, they make industrial policy to build the change of their economic and productive system. That's the point. Let's discuss this. We may disagree, but let's do it if we want to respond to the small entrepreneur, if they want the transformation with which - for example - the network of automotive companies is confronted. Our automotive sector sells to Mercedes, BMW, Volkswagen, Volvo, sells to the top and in the coming years those subjects will be radically transformed. That's where I would destinate resources, to build, and not to get my hands on businesses, but to suggest where to spend resources and invest in transformation. That's the deal. Perhaps we should also learn from Germany: I think of new forms of participation for work, because the idea of the conflict between work and enterprise is of the twentieth century. However, the idea that everyone does what they want does not take into account the fact that, if there are public resources, there is a public interest to be pursued and the social pact can carry it forward. On health, Minister, I greatly appreciated and twice proposed in the budget law that the current staff spending constraint be exceeded from the 2004 budget, which was reduced by 1.4%, which is a real shame, but every time the proposal has been rejected. But now we have the opportunity and we need to re-establish the national health system, starting with that extraordinary law No. 833 of 1978 and dealing with problems. To speak of territory, of home care means to say which organizational system guarantees this and for me - I say it clearly - it is the social health district that guarantees the multi-professionality and the ability to give answers. [[Applause]] We also need to review the hospital system organisationally. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, since we all say this, we understand: I think autonomy is a value, but the school system and the health system are national and from this point of view we cannot have a Harlequin country. [[Applause.]] We can't have it. In conclusion, I would just like to add two final comments. We need authority: in my opinion, the principle of loyal cooperation must be legislated. I am referring to loyal cooperation with the regions and local authorities. We've had alternate moments these months. We need to build a mechanism in which loyal cooperation, a constitutional principle, ensures governance. Paragraph (q) of paragraph 2 of Article 117 of the Constitution has been cited, and I have pointed this out several times. But it is clear that in a system like this there is no decisive measure. If we do not have an idea of how to be together in the Republic, founded on the State, the Regions, the Metropolitan Cities and the Municipalities, it will be hard to move forward and we will be commuters. I am against centralism and I am against DIY federalism, because they are two archaic and wrong answers. I conclude, Minister, with a very heartfelt recommendation. If we want to open schools in September, now - indeed yesterday - we must have all the guarantees and a plan. Let's forget about the plexiglas and forget about the improvisations. You have to say where the kids go to school. If you need, as you need, distance, you need to increase classrooms, staff and teachers. Let us not, at the end of August, take note of the fact that we are in a new emergency. This, rightly, the Italians could not forgive us. So there is an extraordinary effort to be made on school. Last but not least, a lot has been said about the health system. I know we all agree here, but what example of flexibility and professionalism have doctors and health professionals given? So, Minister, let's put the choices we've made into a regime. We finance the health system and economically recognize a different compensation from that of nurses, who have a really inadequate salary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u160	COLLINA (PD). I would like to thank the Minister for Communications, who also respond to a different way of dealing with Parliament. Just today I was able to observe, in the debate on the decree that started the investigation of seroprevalence, how much the pandemic has stressed the institutional and parliamentary system, for the speed of propagation and aggressiveness of the virus. This required prompt decision making, which had to reach citizens to generate awareness and responsible behavior through the definition of clear health references. Therefore, it is right, now that the epidemiological data loosen in part the pressure, that it is decided, on the part of the Government, to anticipate the issue of a new decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, through a parliamentary confrontation that sees it present here in the Senate, Minister, to represent the Government in its collegiality, to assume guidelines that give continuity to that path of progressive reopening of the activities in the new phase of coexistence with the virus; a virus still circulating, still present, still not defeated. However, I would like to stress, with an overall reasoning, what is to be done, but that we are already doing in government action. In fact, in the last week, the Senate has faced the emergency and the so-called phase 2 from various angles, adopting resolutions and agendas that make up a framework that, in my view, is consistent. Reciting a passage from the majority resolution: "The coexistence with the virus must be characterized by health strategies capable of preventing and containing the spread of contagions in the new conditions of normal living to which the country is returning, accompanied, however, by an adequate information system to increase the awareness and responsibility of citizens, but also accompanied by economic measures supporting all sectors, which must necessarily adapt to the coexistence with the virus." The health strategies have taken shape in an important way with the measures contained in the so-called I throw again decree, with 1,256 million euros for local medicine, home care, the neighborhood nurse, social workers and other structural investments; with 1,467 million euros for hospital structures and 567 million euros for health workers. We have added further guidelines to these actions through the resolution adopted in the Health and Health Commission, which proposes elements for the development of the Health System that can make it even more suitable to respond to a possible return of the virus that has not yet been defeated. But the better we did yesterday, in this House, with the unanimous approval of guidelines for molecular and serological tests that the Ministry of Health is committed to keeping constantly up to date. On the other hand, we have economic data. Those represented in the contributions collected in the hearings held in the Chamber of Deputies during the ongoing examination of the so-called relaunch decree describe a very serious situation in many areas. I quote, in summary form, the last document published by Istat, which provides for a marked decline in GDP in 2020 of about 8.3 percent and only a partial recovery in 2021 of more 4.6%. In the current year the fall in GDP will be mainly determined by the fall in domestic demand and is also conditioned by the reduction in household consumption and the collapse of investment. Foreign demand will also decline and employment developments, measured in terms of units of work, are expected to evolve in line with GDP, with a sharp reduction in 2020 of less than 9.3 percent. However, I would like to take tourism as an example in order to bring this data down into reality. In Italy, tourism is worth 13% of GDP and contributes EUR 223 billion directly and indirectly. This is an employment-intensive contribution of all levels of training, with more than 4 million workers. For tourism, turnover is expected to decrease by more than 70% in 2020. The optimistic estimates speak of a recovery by the beginning of 2021. Employment data on the tourism sector show a very strong impact, but the measures put in place so far are only able to contain it in part, both with regard to the integration fund, which will have to be proposed again, and with regard to the measures envisaged for seasonal workers. The so-called relaunch decree, which is under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies, is a decisive instrument for overcoming the emergency. However, like all emergencies, this must also be addressed with planning, so that the choices that are made represent an investment for the future and make our country turn towards modernization and the ability to do things well, but respecting the rules and in reasonable times. I refer to the Green New Deal as a new paradigm of modernity, declined through a transition capable of transforming Italy also from the point of view of administrative simplification. I believe that what has come to be defined in these days as a material for reflection for change, by professionals and experts like Dr. Colao, represents a contribution for the revival of the country, to which we are called to give a political soul and a guiding thread that define the landing places to which we want to bring the country. But it also shows that the time has come for choices. And there's no excuse. It is not Europe that asks us this time; we owe it to Italy and ourselves. Europe, for those sovereigns of our country and abroad, has this time taken the road to cement itself in historical ideals and is creating the conditions also for Italy to be the protagonist in the new European pact. Mr Minister, in conclusion, perhaps this will be just a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers describing another step that must be courageous towards new normality. But, if we do not know how to describe it, albeit partial, relative and part of a bigger and more demanding design to which we are destined, we will also miss this opportunity to awaken to our citizens the sense of the community that is rising and starting again, which looks to the United States of Europe which are supportive and capable of a new development. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u163	CAUSIN (FIBP-UDC). Minister Speranza, the country has found itself - as you said - facing an unprecedented event, in some ways dramatic and certainly unpredictable: to counter a viral pandemic, of which the scientific community still does not know well the contours and has not full concentration, except that it is effective in contrast only the social distance and some normal norms of personal hygiene, is certainly not an easy thing. But this is a task that involves the responsibility of the policy to take decisions. It is a subtle thread, Minister - I say this to you to tell the Government - that unites the need, on the one hand, to safeguard the sacred personal freedoms that are provided for in our Constitution and, on the other hand, the need to safeguard the security of people and communities. It is really a thin thread on which to move tactfully in this direction. The fact that you are faced with the task of taking urgent decisions, and in some ways dramatic and rapid, does not mean that you are authorized to expel and bypass the Italian Parliament, its functions and its prerogatives, which are collective and individual functions, prerogatives of the senators and Members of the Republic. [[Applause]] In a parliamentary Republic, Parliament cannot be reduced to a speaker, as you have done. [[Applause]] And decisions concerning people in a democratic state need, Minister, to be the subject of discussion and wide debate - there are no time limits when these things happen - perhaps even with the courage to change the rules. Minister, our kids learned in 24 hours to do school online. Our companies dematerialized in 48 hours and we had to explain to the Italians that we could not carry out our activity, because we are victims and slaves of archaic regulations that block Parliament, the Government and legislative activity. What has been decided upon and is being decided on in these hours is too important for us to be able to presume to do so on our own, just because it is up to you to be in the government. Italy is still a democratic republic, it has parliamentary democracy, and it is not acceptable that decisions and determinations concerning the limitation of personal freedoms, the revival of the economy, personal security and the functioning of essential public services are the result of direct social networks, press anticipations or tight and late communications that are being made to this Parliament. [[Applause]] It is also not acceptable that the measures examined in the last 60 days have been systematically used to vote for confidence: an instrument which has prevented Parliament from being confronted, the possibility of each individual senator or Member to make his own contribution and the possibility of improving the legislative process, because this is what the amendments and the work of this House are all about. There is no time and you did not give it to us to go into the merits of the individual measures. There would be a lot to say and in the first-signed resolution Binetti the issues were raised. Mr Minister, one thing about the method I want to say to you, and let me say it particularly to you that, like me, animated by political passion from a young age, until when you were wearing short shorts, you probably think that democracy is a serious and important thing and must be put first of all in the life of a Republic. [[Applause]] I want to tell you that the method you have chosen is wrong in a parliamentary republic. It is morally wrong to choose to reduce the Rooms to a supermobile. [[Applause.]] It is always wrong and it is even more so when a nation like ours is hit by such a dramatic event. We are only at the beginning, Minister, and you are still in time to change course. If God wills, we will soon face reconstruction, which means making a sensible decision - for example - on the new ways of resuming the dimension of social life in security, or deciding whether and how to invest large resources, which are the resources of the ESM, the resources of the recovery fund, the resources linked to international financial instruments, which I remind you, Parliament and those who listen to us be in the next twenty-four months of an amount equal to 25% of the monstrous Italian public debt. You can't decide on this pile of money on your own, you can't decide that way. It is a collective responsibility to take a decision, because it involves the future of our generations. We want to know if that money will be invested in modernising the country or - as has happened too many times in Italy with governments of different colors - will be destined to be dispersed in rivoli and in public debt. Parliament and the Italians, Minister, need answers and have the right to know. They want to know - for example - why the banking system, to which we have given EUR 100 billion over five years, is so slow and backward in supporting businesses. You come from the communist tradition and, if the banks do not do what they say, instead of asking for an act of love nationalize them - you will agree with me on this - given the money we gave them. The Italians want to know - for example - who are the dishonest employers, employers of those workers who have asked for the subsidy in black or of the irregular ones who are asking for the sanatoria these days. It is not enough to heal: it is necessary to understand the origin of evil, or why there are so scandalously different health levels among the regions. Finally, how do you plan to spend the money of Italian and European citizens, because it is not just ours? When the Dutch call us to rigour, they do something very simple: it is like when a bank gives money to a company, it gives them not by chance but by way of a restructuring plan and, if Europe gives us money, we have to show that we know how to spend them well and face a path of reform. It's not that because they're given to us we have to take them and throw them in the drain. We must put them to good use, because doing so is a responsibility for the future of the next generations. Minister, in this context, the General States, which have so much decanted these days, or the way in which they are communicated, which is also provided for by law and has used it today, are completely elusive methods of communication compared to the need to open a strong debate in Parliament. I want to tell you something, Minister: I am sorry, because I also think of you, but today you made the Epiphany, the manifestation of hypocrisy, because you gave us a sermon on collaboration and then said that you did not accept any of our proposals. That's what I can't understand: I don't know if it's a problem of my understanding of Italian, or if it was his problem of using words in a rhetorical way. From what you have said, you have the impression that, although there are qualifying points in our motion for a resolution, not one will be accepted. At this point in order to give an answer, we will be forced to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by Senator Binetti, which includes a number of qualified and qualified proposals, and we will vote against your narrow resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u166	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Minister, thank you for being here. It is not a ritual thanksgiving, because other Members of yours prefer other classrooms than those of Parliament. Mine, therefore, is not a form of thanksgiving, but a basic thank you, because you have always been available to the mayors, governors and even Members during the months of difficulty. Not all of us can say the same. We move on to the reopenings, offering a reflection to our fellow senators, to ourselves, making proposals on what is wrong, because it is our job not to disturb, but to suggest on the basis of the mistakes made. I start from "Il Sole 24 Ore" of yesterday and today, which is not a "salvinist" sheet, sovereignist, legist, fascist, to frame two themes related to the reopening. In fact, there is no protection of health if there is no protection of work, because without work it is not quiet. I am convinced that millions of Italians who have left home have understood that the promises made in recent months by the President of the Council have remained - alas - only promises. I take two concrete examples, starting from yesterday's "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore). On the decree relaunch, the words are of Sabino Cassese, judge emeritus of the Constitutional Court. Those who wrote it - the decree I raise - did not know the right, the logic and the common sense. There is a complication rate three times higher than the past. We come to "Il Sole 24 Ore" today, on the Integration Fund: Thus, the new rules impose the integration fund and increase costs. The complexity also affects the timing, for the payment there will be a wait between the two and the three months. The health and well-being of Italian citizens is at stake. Please, Minister Hope, tell your colleague to the economy and to President Conte that millions of Italians are still waiting for the money of the integration fund promised since March: March, April, May, June. [[Applause.]] You are talking about how to go safely by boat, because the Ministry of Transport has established - I don't know if it has changed - that by boat, if you are not together, you have to stay one meter apart. It's okay to worry about the boat, boating is a key sector. In the meantime, if you could pay the promised integration fund to Italian workers who may not have the boat, these would be equally happy. This is the first request: to keep the commitments. On bank liquidity, I always quote "Il Sole 24 Ore". It's a matter of public health, because if people don't work, if people don't bill, if people don't earn, they can get to extreme gestures. I wouldn't want her to starve more than the virus. If you continue not to keep your promises, we risk having more deaths from hunger and despair than from viruses. [[Applause.]] Always the dangerous sovereign sheet "Il Sole 24 Ore": "Liquidity." False departure of the new rules. The Brussels Ok is missing. Today: Locked in the labyrinth of norms and circulars. Norms suspended pending the EU Commission's ok. I would like - as some colleagues have said - that this virus had taught us that, if Brussels asks us to close down hospitals, schools and barracks, if there is no Brussels ok to save shops, families and businesses, we are Italians and we do what the Italian citizens need; first we do it, then, when the Brussels ok arrives, we will beat our hands and say we are happy. [[Applause.]] Two suggestions for my colleague in the economy, since you have the attention to come to the House to listen and can bring back to the Council of Ministers what the senators say, unlike the Minister of Economic Affairs. If in the liquidity decree, for the money to be requested in the bank, sets the limit that the loan must be returned in six years and, if it establishes that those who have had a problem in the past with an invoice, a bank receipt or a loan payment cannot ask for a loan, those who wrote these rules have never set foot in an Italian company, in an Italian shop, in a studio, in an office. I would ask you, therefore, to speak up for this need, which concerns public health, both physical and mental. On the school I heard that several colleagues in the majority called for the urgent need to reopen the school safely. It is curious, then, how someone who is part of the current majority tells the microphone that the Minister of Justice is inadequate, that the Minister of School is inadequate, but when it comes to saving the chair, he votes in favour of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of School. Having two ministers so delicate in the wrong place at the wrong time is a problem. [[Applause.]] As for the school, apart from the plexiglas, with one or two "s," depending on the taste, which is surreal - I refuse to send my seven-year-old daughter to class, locked in a hole of plexiglas: it is absolutely out of the question and is unthinkable! [[Applause]] - I would also like to make a suggestion for public school, since my colleague, Mr Errani, has rightly spoken about public health. I suggest that you make a budget of EUR 55 billion, even a few cents for the recruitment of not all, but at least some of the 200,000 precarious and for the recruitment and stabilization of some of the teachers supporting disabled pupils. In the classes there are 260,000 disabled children and as many as 50,000 support teachers are precarious, alternates, who change one, two, three or four times a year. [[Applause]] This is a crime for a child already in trouble: it was before the virus and it will be even more so after the virus. [[Applause]] Not to mention discrimination against B-level students and teachers, who are equal public schools [[Applause]] because, when someone on the left hears "smell" of private, it evidently loses sensitivity. So, Minister, please take these requests from the Senate, parents and teachers to your colleague, Minister of Education. Someone from the majority before me has said this: it is not conceivable - as the experts of the task force said yesterday, in the House of Deputies - that the guidelines for reopening will be communicated in August. It's mid-June: how can you think that teachers, parents and students in a month can decide how to reopen schools? [[Applause]] It's crazy to reopen the football championship and close schools and universities! With all due respect, I think our children come first than others. As far as the bureaucracy you were talking about is concerned, if we remove some ties, it opens up more easily. President Conte, however, before naming the task forces, should understand that, if they then give results that he does not like, he cannot basket his work and organize walkways in the Roman villas, because he does not like what his experts have given birth to. [[Applause]] President Colao said that it takes the Genoa model to relaunch the yards, that it takes a sanatoria to bring out the hidden cash, that it must give strength and liquidity to the enterprises. The president of the task force chosen by President Conte said so and therefore, at least out of respect, since he has had those people working for weeks, who have offered a result that puts the citizens and the freedom of enterprise at the centre, let's say: live citizens and the freedom of enterprise! [[Applause]] Isn't CGIL good? Who cares if it's not good for CGIL! We can't be hostage to the CGIL nos. I shall conclude with two final reflections. Public or private health needs money. The task force has always talked about a full-bodied tax cut. It will come to the Assembly - hopefully not armored - a decree-law of 55 billion euros. A proposal from the League is filed in the Senate, which sums up the idea of development of the entire center-right, on a large reduction of taxes for families, employees, VAT matches and businesses, from 13 billion euros. I think the best way to reopen the country is to dedicate at least part of the 55 billion euros to a large tax cut for citizens and businesses [[Applause]] , rather than assistance, perhaps electoral and end in itself. The order of accountants turned us the tax deadlines from June to December of this year: there are 167. It was absurd before the virus, it is absurd in the reconstruction phase and it is crazy to think that on September 16th - this is written and I ask you to tell your colleagues, because it is unthinkable - entrepreneurs, craftsmen and VAT matches, as if for enchantment, will have to pay taxes not cancelled, but suspended for the months of March, April, May and June, or in a single ban or at most in 4 monthly installments, starting from September 16th 2020. Listen to the task forces, listen to the business world: it takes a fiscal white year for the whole of 2020. [[Applause]] You don't have to enter the homes of Italians with VAT, payments or balances for the whole of 2020. Still according to the task force, the balance and deletion of the 8 million accounting records of Equitalia I think would be a work of moral and social justice, which helps the state to cash in and the citizens to survive (not to live, but to survive). As far as health data is concerned, I am silent on the pitiful statements of some political exponent. I want to think it was because of the heat, because when someone lets a vulgarity of this type escape ("if there had been the center-right in the government with the virus, the cemeteries would not suffice"), he should apologize not to me, but to the relatives of the victims who died for the virus. It's an unworthy beastly of a congressman. [[Applause]] Some fellow left-wing senator and some governor have been humiliating the Lombard health system for months, with very vulgar accusations. As a senator who has discovered that he is not particularly loved by one part of the judiciary (I will be right), I thank those prosecutors who in Bergamo said that the red zone was the government's responsibility and who asked to listen to Conte, Lamorgese and Hope, because they finally put an end to a shame that lasted too long. [[Applause]] To the governors De Luca and Emiliano, who also had the opportunity to dispute and who, in some cases, said they did not want the Lombards (let's forget it), I remember that the hospitals of Lombardy are public and private. For me, Italy is based on subsidiarity; they are neither for the whole public nor for the whole private sector. The public does some good and the private does others well; let us put them together to work and not discriminate either. If we shut down private hospitals and private schools tomorrow, the Italy system would blow up. [[Applause]] Those who say you can do without private health care and private school live on Mars. I remind two issues to colleagues and governors who judged and shamed the Lombardy Region, the Lombardy doctors, the Lombardy executives and the Lombardy hospitals in these months: last year (2019) have fortunately come to be visited, cured and operated in the hospitals of the Lombardy Region 164,832 Italian citizens, of which 14,000 from Campania and 14,000 from Puglia. And I am proud that Lombard health care has given an answer to these citizens, who obviously did not find it at home. I hope that, before they insult, they all think twice. Good work, Minister Hope. If all his colleagues had had his willingness and willingness to listen, we would have had less problems. Please take this last thought to your President-in-Office: before inviting chefs, VIPs and VIP architects to a villa in Rome, pay the integration fund to Italian workers who have been waiting for you for four months. Good work and live Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u169	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, I smile because Senator Salvini thanked the Minister for Health, but at least one word on health could say it. [[Applause]] While he had the grace and respect to come to this House, perhaps a word about the health leaders appointed by politics, the 48% of the health care given to the private sector, the residences for the elderly, the circulars that have led people to die, at least one word, he could have said so. [[Applause]] Instead, he said it was an integration fund. [[Protests.]] We read on the INPS portal that about 8.4 beneficiaries... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u170	Please have the surgery done. I'd like to hear Senator Licheri's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u171	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, the last time I had a speech, I was interrupted and blocked seven times. If you do not manage to keep discipline in the Chamber, I will suspend it. [[Protests]] , because you can't do an intervention like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u172	Everyone has spoken, let Senator Licheri speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u173	[[Protests.]] Then Senator Licheri, continue. LICHERI (M5S). Of 8.4 beneficiaries... president. Senator Marcucci, no one teaches me how to keep this House. Neither do you, okay? Sit down! [[Protests]] LICHERI (M5S). President, we cannot be interrupted every three minutes, we do not accept it. [[Protests.]] If you do not manage to keep discipline in this Chamber, you will stop it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u174	I don't accept it either. I just said, I don't accept it either. Go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u175	LICHERI (M5S). Of the 8.4 potential beneficiaries of the Integration Fund, 7,600,000 had paid the Integration Fund [[Protests]] , data from the INPS portal. [[Applause.]] There are still 420,000 workers waiting because they have not yet sent the infamous SR41, i.e. the module with the worker's IBAN. But that is not the point, Mr President. The point is that we cannot be political in this way, because otherwise we cannot understand the importance and gravity of the moment we are living, which cannot be reduced to the number of unemployed. There are now 40 million workers in line in the United States who are waiting for unemployment benefit. [[Applause.]] France has a double-digit unemployment rate. There are 25 million unemployed in Europe right now. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u176	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u177	LICHERI (M5S). So, I wanted to tell you, Minister, to get back to us, after this scene, the usual scene. [[Protests]] , that it is obvious that artisans, traders and entrepreneurs cannot pay faults that are not them. It is also clear that their courage must be supported and supported by further legislative and regulatory action. It is clear that we are faced with something that we are all looking forward to putting behind us. We look forward to closing this tragedy. However, we are faced with something so great that we either work together, as you said, or we do not go anywhere. In order to gather a voice that has been in this House this afternoon, which told the government to learn and learn from the mistakes it has made, I say that it is right, it is true. However, I have two points to make. The first is that if mistakes have been made, mistakes are made when working; chatterers never make mistakes. [[Applause.]] He never makes mistakes. The second teaching that the coronavirus must give us is that no one can do alone. Just think if that 27 February the citizens of Milan had accepted the appeal of that politician who said "Open, open, open" [[Applause]] , proposing to open shops, schools, gyms, shopping malls, swimming pools, stadiums and to return to work. Imagine if the citizens of Milan had accepted that appeal what would have been of our country, of our family members, of our children, of our grandparents, of our hospitals, of our patients, of our doctors. You are right, Minister Hope; we need a shared strategy because you told us what is then a reality before everyone's eyes: with this virus we will have to live together for a long time, so we must necessarily decline the right to work, the right to enterprise, with the right to health. [[Applause.]] But it's hard to decline these two rights; it's hard to make them march together, we can't do it, as I heard today, saying that we modulate the DPCMs depending on whether there are 10 more or less deaths. We cannot do this with the policy of opening, opening, opening, closing, closing, closing, constantly changing ideas. This isn't politics. [[Applause]] That is another thing, but it is not political. Let this also be clear to everyone: no one thinks of getting out of this crisis equal to how it entered us, because this crisis will make us better or worse. We decide, then: or we decide to stir up the anger of the people, legitimate, we decide to inflate the fears of the people, legitimate, or we sit down and start to design a country that is stronger, more modern for our children. [[Applause]] We have two roads, one excludes the other, though. Senator Romeo, you know how much sympathy I have for you; you say not to touch regional self-government. True, it is right: regional autonomy, as the President of the Republic told us a few days ago, is a resource for this nation, but regional autonomy does not mean that the citizens who died in Lombardy are dead citizens and you, the State, do not have to deal with it. No, it's not. If we want to start a serious reflection on how the crisis was managed in Lombardy, let's do it, but let's not reduce ourselves to a hit and a political response. Let's start by figuring out how those people died, if someone has a serious fault, if someone has adornment, if someone has turned to the other side, if someone has succeeded in that crisis. [[Applause.]] We let the magistrates work, but then we do a reflection, not for us, not for you, but for the family members of those people, who should have an answer. [[Applause.]] I shall conclude, Mr President: it is up to us to choose what kind of policy we want. As Movimento 5 Stars we have chosen to work in silence from the beginning [[Comments. Applause]] , and we have chosen the policy of responsibility, that is, the policy of avoiding tragedies, that we could count as few deaths as possible, and the policy of rules that are also unpopular, of course, even annoying rules, as has been said in this House so many times this afternoon. They were annoying rules, rules that didn't like, that didn't audience. But we did it because of that sense of responsibility we felt on our skin by looking at the doctors and nurses who worked with that spirit of sacrifice. And so, Minister, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am voting in favour of the majority resolution, because we owe it to those 34,000 dead, their families, doctors and nurses who died in the exercise of their work, because their blood and tears deserve the truth. [[Applause.]] We owe it above all to those who in recent months, far from setting the bad example that is being set these days, have respected the rules and continue to do so. For those people, we give them confidence, with courage and freedom. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u178	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Pirro, Boldrini, Errani, Parente and Laniece. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 215 Senators voting 214 Favorables 124 Contrars 90]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 214 Senators voting 213 Favorables 88 Contrari 124 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u181	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak personally. I would like to respond to my colleague, Mr Corrado, of the Movimento 5 Stars, who, in today's speech, in the report of the Regional Museum of Ceramics, has basically commented on my work and my colleague, Mr Borgonzoni, calling it a school trip. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, there are too many people in the hemicycle and you can't hear anything because the buzz is too strong. Please, Senator Briziarielli. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). As I said, I am speaking about the late session speech by my colleague Margherita Corrado del MoVimento 5 Stars who wanted to bring to the attention of the Assembly the situation of Deruta's Regional Ceramic Museum which has recently been following with a sort of institutional bullying since mayor Toniaccini has been targeted. In the facts he told, today he referred to me and my colleague Borgonzoni saying that we went on a school trip. So I live in Umbria and I have followed the matter, as my colleague Mr Borgonzoni, Undersecretary of the Government of the Republic, did, however, resolving a fundamental issue such as that of the MOCA which involved the craftsmen of ceramics, so to solve the problems. [[Applause]] Having said that, on the subject, given that we do not accept lessons from those in the Culture Committee who want to limit the hearings of the world of culture to six per party - we have dozens and dozens of people to listen to, but obviously the 5 Star Movimento no - I would like to invite my colleague Corrado to do an archival research because, for example, in the municipality of Neptune, 5 Stars at that time (it will not be difficult to find it because, thank God, the municipalities administered by the 5 Stars are not many) his mayor made a similar ban, free of charge, for the management and scientific direction of the museum. [[Applause]] Neptune lives an identical situation, that is that of a municipality with scarce resources and great cultural heritage that it cannot support. On this the League - and this is also made personal - asked in the Committee culture that the responsible ANCI culture on the civic museums be audited and while the League asks to increase the resources for the civic museums with an amendment in the decree-law I throw again, the Government has forgotten it because in article 183 of the decree I throw again the civic museums are excluded from the use of the resources made available. So we hope that Mrs Corrado will use the same time she has used these days, together with her colleagues from the 5 Stars, to make the Minister aware of that amendment and give the necessary resources to the civic museums, so perhaps we could also give a high-value compensation to those who will be the director of a municipal museum, small but of great value. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u182	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-227.ana.u183	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 11 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) I warn you that the immediate questions are at 3 p.m. There had been a request for anticipation at 9.30 a.m. but unfortunately the ministers who have booked to report are not available for 9.30 a.m. so the question time remains convened for 15 o'clock. The sitting was closed at 2.05 p.m.
