ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, I would like to address a moving thought of closeness to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Giulio Maceratini, who died last Saturday. Historian exponent of the Italian political right, a man of great intellectual openness, Giulio Maceratini was certainly one of the protagonists of an era of great historical, political and social changes. Lawyer of the forum of Rome and appreciated jurist, Giulio Maceratini had begun his parliamentary experience in 1983, when he was elected for the first time to the Chamber of Deputies among the ranks of the Italian Social Movement. Parliamentary for six legislatures, two of which to the Senate, where he was also President of the Group of National Alliance, always knew how to demonstrate great competences, rigour, sense of responsibility and deep respect for the institutions; qualities that, together with its natural predisposition to listening and dialogue, had made him an authoritative point of reference, both in political militancy and in Parliament's classrooms. With Giulio Maceratini he leaves us a passionate politician, consistent and faithful to his ideas, but, at the same time, an intelligent interpreter of that need to always protect, promote and pursue the path of moderation, mutual recognition, dialogue and constructive confrontation between political forces in the exclusive interest of Italy and Italians. In remembrance of Giulio Maceratini I therefore invite this Assembly to gather in a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u7	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps few of you have met Giulio Maceratini in this House, but this House knows him very well. And the classrooms of our institutions know him, because he was for a long time a prince of the court, a great cassationist lawyer, a counselor of the forensic order, but also a prince of politics, educated and refined. He knew perfectly English and French, history, geography, philosophy. He was also a concrete and determined man, lucid in his actions, who loved his community and especially the youngest, who defended many times in the classrooms of the courts and not only: in the hard years of the Republic, in the years of the crawling civil war, in the years of terrorism, in the years of the victims. I remind this House, just today that it is not by chance that we remember the figure, as Giulio Maceratini, in those difficult years, wrote: The protection of individual and group freedom against the possible will of the authorities is a fundamental theme of the Italian right. This has been worthwhile in the past, in the years in which the Republic was born and was threatened from within and from outside, and it is also valid and especially today. Giulio Maceratini was born in 1938 and in the years of the war he is a child, who understands the wounded nation. Then it is formed in the spirit and the beehive of Evolian spiritualism, that of the Sons of the Sun. He formed a partnership with Pino Rauti, who lasted for many decades - Rauti and Maceratini - inside and outside the party, the then Italian Social Movement. In the MSI he was first elected to the Regional Council, where he honored the institutions, and then to the Chamber of Deputies, in 1983, then to the European Parliament, where he took over in 1988, for a short period; then again to the Senate, in 1994, where he also reached the summit as President of the Alleanza Nazionale Group. Then you get to 2000. The other day, at the funeral, a friend reminded me that he was in the elevator in this building when he told him (it was then spoken of him as a candidate for the presidency of the Region, because soon the elections would be held in Lazio): I have to leave for two days. I have an operation to do. A friend advised him to operate, to prevent a problem that could get worse. He worked, but unfortunately he didn't go away for two days, he went away for twenty years, because that operation didn't go well. He was impressed, he who was a prince of the forum, a prince of politics and knew how to speak in the forum and in these classrooms. He who had honored all the Italian institutions, from the Region to Parliament (Room and Senate), to the European Parliament, could no longer speak for a long time, could no longer walk and articulate. Think of the suffering of a person who had reached the top of the institutions in his political activity and suddenly becomes aware that he cannot continue his path. But our party, the party of that time, decided to redeploy it anyway, because it was a symbol, a flag; it was rebranded in 2001 to the Chamber of Deputies, where for another five years, in the first scranno (because it could not climb the steps), sat and represented the Italian nation: five years of honor, but also of suffering. Then he withdrew to private life, but his friends still called him for advice, because in time he had resumed the use of the word. Until, the other day, one night in July, he broke up with us. He who loved life, who loved politics, who loved his nation, to some extent left us with a specific and very clear message that, if the Presidency grants it to me, I would like to summarize in a historical episode, very clear to this Assembly, of a right which founded the Republic with others and which has often not been fully recognized by the Republic. Giulio Maceratini, son of the sun, was very close to another young man of that generation, who took us away an accident, Pino Romualdi. Pino Romualdi is the one who founded the right in the post-war period. He was arrested shortly before the institutional referendum because he was one of those who had participated in the experience of the Italian Social Republic. In the prison he received an emissary from the then Minister of Justice Palmiro Togliatti. In that prison, with Palmiro Togliatti's emissary, they made a pact, a pact between two greats. According to the pact, the fascists (who still existed and very often had hidden the weapons) would not intervene in the dispute between Republic and monarchy and would remain neutral; in return, they would have obtained amnesty. Amnesty was granted; Togliatti kept the pact and so the Republic was born in that act. Giulio Maceratini has defended the institutions always and in any case in full awareness that we are opponents, but still representatives together of the same authentic Italy nation. That's how we remember it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u10	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your words and the memory of Giulio Maceratini, whom I believe you too have been able to meet in Parliament at the start of your experience at the Senate, when Giulio Maceratini led the National Alliance Group at Palazzo Madama. He had been a Member of Parliament, as you mentioned and as Mr Urso said, and there is an episode that constitutes a further example of the generosity of Giulio Maceratini. He was born in 1938 and, therefore, in 1994 he was fifty-six years old, an age not particularly advanced. As the new electoral law, the Mattarellum, and the Senate for a right-wing political force began, it was more risky because there was no proportional list of the Chamber, Giulio Maceratini, having already done some legislatures in the Chamber of Deputies since 1983 and having been elected to the Region before (I was present when this decision was made), he said that he would run for the Senate where there was greater margin of risk because he had already carried out parliamentary activity and it was right that it was he who risked more, so that others could have less risky positions. Then he was actually elected because in 1994 he left the center-right and the coalition had a great success also in the city of Rome and won in all colleges. Senator Maceratini was elected right in the college of the Prati district and the historic center of Rome, where we are physically also as Senate, and became a Parent Company, bringing the experience, wisdom and balance of a political force that became a majority, a majority that lasted little in that short and troubled legislature that saw the wisdom and balance of Maceratini stand out. Many colleagues - the flow of time is inexorable - did not get to know Giulio Maceratini but he brings us back to a dimension of politics where militancy precedes the electoral and parliamentary role. Giulio Maceratini - it has already been mentioned - had a clearly identity path in the Italian political right, which also spent in the democratic battle of guaranteeing the Region and in Parliament. In fact, in the post-1968, there were events that often became of a judicial nature. Giulio Maceratini became a lawyer, a member of the Council of the Bar Association of Rome, along with many valuable lawyers such as Battista, Valensise, Gallitto and others. In courtrooms he was also an attorney who joined the militant defenses of law and guarantee. Even within the political right it was often characterized by more guaranteed positions in times when the spread of violence and terrorism often brought out very drastic positions in terms of criminal sanctions. Despite being a man of strong political identity, he accompanied with conviction the path of transformation of the Italian right because, after a long collaboration already remembered with Pino Rauti, when the moment of the turn of Fiuggi and National Alliance arrived, Giulio chose, together with many of us, the path of transformation of the Italian right towards the future not assuming roles of Government because he played the important role of Group Leader at the Senate from 1994 to 2001 (a role that was as important as a role of Government), but always giving a contribution of culture, content also in magazines, thought and debate. I want to remind him therefore as an ideal politician, because he has been characterized by a strong coherence, and consistency leads also to a path that over time helps to accept new demands and needs of the times. It was characterized by militancy, because Giulio Maceratini was a political militant, in the noblest and most integral sense of the term, who then entered the regional and parliamentary assemblies. It was characterized by culture and politics, expressed in thought, debate and magazines (even in more recent phases of its commitment we remember the magazine "Initiative" and in the past its contribution to political experiences of even higher level and meaning). It was characterized by space to the new generations: still "young," it was still ready, if necessary, to give way. He was also characterized by great human generosity, as a politician and teacher of politics, and as a lawyer, lawyer and defender of the rights of many. An ideal person: having known him, as happened to so many of us, and having him as a friend and political leader, as happened to some of us, was a great privilege. Let us remember this not only in a formal way, however, as it is right for the House to do, because we must make these memories, as we have done for other colleagues of various orientations, because politics is also made up of good examples, which often belong more to the community of which we have been part; but sharing them, even at times of remembrance like this, is a reason for reflection and teaching, because politics is made up of good examples, militancy, culture and legislative action. Giulio Maceratini was all this and it was an honor for the Senate to have him among its members, so the Forza Italia Group and all of us who have met him - rightly the President also wanted to remember him personally, which I thank him for - we pay tribute to him and embrace his family and his wife, who has been with him in these years of suffering with great dedication and generosity; I think this too should be remembered. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u13	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy for me to find the right words to remember Senator Maceratini. I was bound to him by a great friendship and therefore there are implications also of a personal character, as well as a political one, that bind me to him. I think I didn't use the verb at random to remember it, because the term "commemoration" would instead have evoked and brought with it automatically the use of rhetorical definitions and phrases that might have made Senator Giulio Maceratini smile first. I therefore believe that the best way to honor its memory is to take inspiration from its attitudes and ways of behaving, living and understanding politics: the synthesis, simplicity and frankness, seasoned by good doses of irony and wisdom, are the distinctive traits that have accompanied it in the course of its life, distinguishing the phases, also from the political point of view, of forensic activity and - let us not forget - also of the sports management because Giulio Maceratini was also a great sports manager. Politics, first of all: Senators Urso and Gasparri have already remembered important phases of his political life. To retrace his curriculum here would take too long and, as I have already said, the previous speakers have done so. Instead, I am pleased to outline the reason why he was an exponent of the Italian right who deeply characterized his growth: as has already been mentioned, but let me add a few more facts, he was the first leader of the National Alliance to the Senate. It was the one who managed a difficult period of transition that led the 13 senators of the Italian Social Movement to become the 48 senators of the National Alliance. It is not only a numerical fact, it is a politically and culturally important fact that marks the transition from opposition - but in some ways from marginalization - to a new position of government. Giulio Maceratini was able to combine all these aspects with great skill, with great wisdom but above all with great political intelligence and this allowed him to start the Italian right a cultural path historically important whose effects still feel today. Then there is, of course, the figure of lawyer Giulio Maceratini, a cassationist lawyer as it has been remembered that he has carried out important tasks in his forensic activity. He was also advisor to the Rome order, but I believe that the militants would like to remind him as the lawyer who, free of charge and uninterestedly, defended many militants, defended many friends who in those difficult years, in those particular years that marked the life of the country, experienced moments of suffering that were obviously extended also to their families. Giulio Maceratini was the right means, the right reference with families and, if you allow, somehow he could recover even a moment of comfort during great periods of suffering, making them, from the community point of view, the patrimony of all those who suffered. Then there is the sporty aspect because Giulio Maceratini has carried out sport activities directly as a young man, he was also an athlete in the world of youth football because he fought in the spring of Lazio; and this is a singular fact because then he led him to deal with sports activities as manager, defending the values, principles and sports institutions and definitely autonomy. As a sportsman he was also a huge fan and this is the singularity: he played in Lazio but he was in love with Rome. I would also like to mention ironic aspects of his way of combining political life with everyday life. The Alleanza Nazionale's badge was white-blue, colors to him indigestible, and so he coined, for him it is for a small number of friends, a completely Giallorossi badge. A singular fact, it made the party assemblies and congresses coincide with Rome's trips, so often it happened to see Giulio Maceratini in various parts of Italy almost always when he played Rome. I am going to conclude because I believe that what was needed has been said. Senator Maceratini has been honored. I only allow myself, through a brief roundup, to evoke the most significant phrases about Giulio Maceratini that have been found on the Net and that I am pleased to say in this Chamber (and I believe that even the people who have experienced his suffering and felt the need to express a thought for him would be pleased to be united in my greeting): "A giant": "a senator of ancient Rome": "a man who has been able to combine kindness, irony and politeness," "a great President." The most striking definition of this is the senator of ancient Rome. The parliamentary press often reminded him: he would be very well depicted inside the Maccari room, among the senators with his tunic; he replied: I hope I don't end up with another Julius. With this joke I want to remember Giulio Maceratini and address to him an affectionate thought. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u14	The next item is the joint debate on LVII, Section III, Section 3, and LVII-a, No 2. 9:59 p.m. The rapporteurs, Senators Conzatti and Presutto, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Conzatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, this report, which was submitted to Parliament on 22 July and announced to the House on 23 July, sets out the further updating of the return plan towards the medium-term objective for Parliament's authorisation of the budgetary deviation necessary for the financing of further interventions that the Government intends to take to address the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19. The report is adopted pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, which provides that temporary deviations from the structural balance of the medium-term objective are permitted in the event, like this, of exceptional events, after hearing the European Commission, subject to authorisation approved by the Chambers by an absolute majority, while indicating the return plan towards the medium-term objective. Paragraph 5, in particular, of Article 6 of the aforementioned law provides that the return plan, with respect to the medium-term objective, can be updated to the occurrence of additional exceptional events, that is, when, in relation to the evolution of the economic cycle, the Government intends to make changes to it. We recall, because it is important, that on 20 March last, the European Commission made provision for the application of the general safeguard clause in order to ensure that all Member States have the necessary budgetary room for manoeuvre to support health expenditure and to counter the recessionary effects on the economy of the spread of Covid-19. The application of the safeguard clause thus allows States to temporarily deviate from the adjustment path towards the medium-term objective, provided that fiscal sustainability is not compromised over the medium term. This report was preceded by two further reports to Parliament which were necessary to deal with the economic and health crisis linked to the Covid-19 epidemic. A first report was transmitted by the Government to Parliament on 5 March and supplemented on 11 March; with it, following the adoption of the resolution, a deviation of EUR 20 billion was authorised for 2020 in terms of net debt. On 24 April, attached to the Economic and Financial Document, the Government presented a second report asking Parliament to authorise a higher debt of EUR 55 billion for 2020. With this report, the Government calls for authorisation for further net borrowing which, including the related interest expense, amounts to 25 billion euros for 2020. In terms of needs, the request for authorisation amounts to €32 billion; in terms of net balance to be financed, the request for authorisation corresponds to €32 billion. In view of the effects of public finance, i.e. the global and national macroeconomic deterioration illustrated in the economic and financial document and also the effects of previous authorisations on higher indebtedness, the maximum level of the net balance to be financed from the State budget for the current year reaches 336 billion euros in terms of competence and 384 billion euros in terms of cash. The new level of net debt is set at 11.9% of GDP for 2020. The new level of government debt stands at 157.6 percent of GDP. They are indicators that testify to a profound economic crisis. In this report, the Government reports that the request for deviation concerns a number of measures to address the additional consequences of the epidemiological emergency. In this way it is intended to respond to a number of needs that rise very strongly in the country. In this respect, it is considered essential to continue and make the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni more selective, reserving it to the companies most affected by the crisis and in actual economic difficulty. It is also considered to introduce a lever for growth and therefore to encourage recruitment, with particular reference to time indefinite. Of great importance, then, is to be considered the support to liquidity, to be pursued also through a reprogramming of the fiscal deadlines, that will happen in the coming months. In particular, provision will be made for the possibility of indemnifying the tax debt over a broader time horizon, which will be defined, so as to ensure that the tax burden on taxpayers is significantly reduced for the year 2020. The time limits for the recovery of the levy, currently set at 31 August, will be further deferred. The aim is to support the enterprises and the productive sectors most affected: I refer to the automotive, tourism and tourism industry. A great deal of attention is also paid to local authorities, whose revenues have been significantly reduced. Another pressing need is identified in the ordinary resumption of teaching activity, reconciling teaching in presence with the necessary protection of health. In order to meet these important needs, the Government therefore intends to adopt further measures for the current financial year, asking Parliament for permission to have the necessary resources and confirming the commitment to pursue a path towards the medium-term objective, in the course of the next financial years. In this regard, the Government confirms the objective of bringing the debt-to-GDP ratio back to the euro area average over the next decade, through a strategy focused on an adequate primary surplus and on strengthening and relaunching economic growth, through public and private investment and the simplification of administrative procedures. I conclude with a warning: after the emergence and revival phase, to which this deviation also refers, the emphasis of economic policy must necessarily shift from the management of the short-term effects of the crisis to the design of interventions aimed at making the Italian economy more resilient, more sustainable, more able to grow at a sustained pace. Otherwise, if the temporary relief of emergency measures is exhausted, the macroeconomic and financial conditions of our country will only worsen. Of course, to avoid this scenario we need a strong motivation and unity of intent towards a revival of the country and this will happen with the national reform programme, which we are preparing to approve, and even more with the recovery and resilience plan, which is being drafted by the Government and Parliament, which will have to be handed over to the European Union next autumn. The National Reform Programme and the recovery and residence plan are milestones for the reconstruction of the Italian future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u16	I call the rapporteur, Senator Presutto.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis triggered by the spread of the pandemic has put us in front of the need to make a titanic effort. This has allowed us and will allow us to strengthen the network of protection extended around the country in all its components. But the crisis itself, under the pressure of an acceleration of the processes of change that can no longer be postponed, is also offering us enormous opportunities for the future of the country. Today we are here to confirm the combination between protection and the future. We are in fact called to approve - as my colleague Mrs Conzatti has just mentioned - a budgetary deviation (the third) from 25 billion euros, after the 20 billion debt of the draft law cures Italy and 55 billion of the draft law relaunch; we will therefore arrive at a compressive deviation of about 100 billion euros. We need to be clear: this is a task to protect workers, families, businesses and public health. I would like to remind you that public health, since the 5 Star Movement has been in government, has had additional funding of EUR 7 billion, after a decade of constant definancing. This third budgetary deviation serves to extend the integration fund - as my colleague Mrs Conzatti said earlier - to meet the cash needs of our local authorities, to strengthen the Central Business Guarantee Fund, to give maximum state coverage to bank loans, to postpone until 2021 a whole series of tax payments that, with the previous measures, had already slipped to next September; all - we know - will see the light of an imminent government measure. We are also here to talk about a formally different measure, but - if you will allow me - intimately linked to the budgetary deviation: the National Reform Programme, that is, the document that illustrates the policies that the Government intends to adopt for the revival of growth, innovation, sustainability, social inclusion and territorial cohesion in the new scenario determined by coronavirus. The National Reform Programme was presented this year following the approval of the DEF 2020, as, in the face of the emergency caused by the Covid, the Government decided to focus primarily on support measures for households and businesses and the resulting financial needs. It was also considered necessary to have greater visibility on the evolution of the epidemic in Italy and on the subsequent phase 2 of gradual reopening of the economy. It is also important, of course, to await the outcome of the work in the European Union in response to the pandemic. Today we know that the Government, thanks to the decisive impulse of the Movimento 5 Stars with the other forces of Government, has managed to obtain the recovery fund, which for Italy means a budget of 209 billion euros, of which 81 in terms of subsidies. We are talking about an extraordinary budget, a sap that must be able to constantly feed the investment objectives contained in the National Reform Programme. At the base of the same there is a recovery plan built around three strategic lines: modernization of the country, ecological transition, social and territorial inclusion and gender equality. The three strategic lines will be implemented through nine lines of intervention: a fully digital country; a country with secure and efficient infrastructures; a greener and more sustainable country; a more competitive and resilient economic fabric; an integrated plan to support production chains; a public administration at the service of citizens and businesses; increased investment in research and training; a fairer and more inclusive Italy; a more modern and efficient legal system - to conclude -. The Government will draw up the recovery and resilience programme, the so-called recovery plan, to be presented to the European Commission for the purpose of the recovery fund. The Commission set the deadline for the delivery of Member States' recovery plans in April 2021 when the new national reform programmes will be presented. The Government, awaiting the importance of the new instrument for the Italian economy, intends to publish its recovery plan as early as September, together with the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document, NADEF. Colleagues, there is no one who does not see the enormous opportunity that this path, unfortunately made of so much suffering, can reserve for the country. By keeping in our memory everything that has happened in recent months, we have a duty to make this memory the spring to give Italy the future it deserves. The environment, digital and energy transition are all objectives covered by the National Reform Programme and funded by the recovery fund. They are historical goals of the Movimento 5 Stars, who proudly claim this result. No one is under any illusions that the path of putting money on the ground and the implementation of investments will be a walk, but we are at a historic starting point and we have arrived with the inevitable support of all the forces of the Government. The work to be done is a lot and we are ready, even to face the not simple challenge of debt. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that, after this EUR 100 billion deficit, due and physiological, our public debt is moving towards the 60% threshold in relation to GDP. We hope that, with the acts we are discussing today in this House, we will promote a growth in GDP which will help us to reduce the numerator of the fraction, namely debt. However, we are also aware that, in order to facilitate control and debt reduction, more progress is needed on the term innovation. The Movimento 5 Star in this direction considers it essential to include, within the public administration, process-based management models, in turn supported by modern computer systems. This is a critical element, perhaps among the most important. I can imagine that soon, in general discussion, we will be talking about "book of dreams." This is not "the book of dreams," when, above all, we will be able to put our hands on the functioning of public administration. We need a more modern, more advanced public administration that has a management model that is actually oriented to users, to citizens and is above all able to assess the return on investment, so as to avoid mistakes that we will not be able to afford. We have an opportunity and we need to take it all the way. It is in fact in this way that the public administration (central, peripheral, municipalities, local authorities, health) will be more effective. Such a management approach will allow a distinction to be made between activities that create or do not generate added value, focusing investment as a priority on high value and low environmental impact activities. This creates a virtuous condition to use resources immediately optimally, reducing errors to the maximum. This is functional public expenditure and, therefore, it is not a question of linear cuts. We are talking about a concept siderally distant from the linear cuts, precisely, to which some past governments have accustomed us. So we will talk about spending not as a cost, but as an investment that creates value. An important step is taken within the Decree-Law simplifications, in these hours to the examination of the competent Commissions of the Senate, but we must always ask ourselves what we want to mean by the term "simplification" and give the idea of what we want to offer to the citizens. For us to simplify means to fluidize a procedure of public administration, provided that it is good and virtuous, avoiding - for example - regulatory stratification, which then becomes a tool for the use and consumption of lawyers. We must have processes and that is why it is also important to include technical figures in the public administration, alongside legal ones. The state machine must become fast, powerful and effective. It is a question of simplifying and facilitating virtuous procedures with the constant control of the citizen, who becomes an active part of the process, and therefore not only in the electoral phase, but also at a time of objective and subjective evaluation of the services provided by the public administration at all levels. This will, all the more, serve in view of the expenditure of the resources from recovery funds: it will enable us to spend well and to correct the course in good time, when it is necessary, long before Europe will come to control us. In this way we will have an intelligent public administration, very powerful on the cognitive level and able to anticipate the controls that Europe will legitimately come to do a little bit further in time. Always with a view to favoring the descent of the high public debt, the Movimento 5 Stars has long advocated a faster system of circulation of tax credits, in particular after the inclusion of the super bonus to 110% in the decree I raise. Here, too, IT tools, between existing and new, and innovation can make a huge contribution to providing citizens and businesses with additional liquidity to revitalise gross domestic product without affecting debt, rather than helping it to gradually decline. On innovation, which has always been advocated by our Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, we can do so much, often even beyond what we think. On this the Movimento 5 Stars is and will always be in favor, precisely, of a better Italy and in the exclusive interest of the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u18	The minority rapporteur, Senator Faggi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u19	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u20	Mr President, the National Reform Programme under consideration contains the specific recommendations approved by the Council of the European Union in 2019, as well as the 2020 recommendations proposed by the Commission, giving a lead to the operational definition of Italy's recovery plan and drawing up the essential lines of the reform programme necessary for access to resources from the next generation programme of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, as defined by the agreement reached in the European Council at its meeting on 17-21 July. The different timing of the National Reform Programme (NRP) compared to Sections I and II of the 2020 Economic and Financial Document, approved by Parliament on 30 April 2020, while allowing a broader view on the evolution of the epidemic and being able to take note of the outcome of the European Union's work on the Community response to the health and economic crisis, is based on forecast economic analyses already overcome by the worsening of the European and above all national macroeconomic environment. In order to effectively relaunch the national economy, it is central to a correct use of national resources that is not aimed exclusively at measures of support and assistance to incomes, albeit of vital importance, but immediately intervenes on the sectors most affected by the crisis and strategic for a rapid and solid recovery of the Country, waiting that the resources coming from the next generation program will not be concretely available before the second half of next year and subject to strict destination constraints. It is considered of fundamental importance, in a historical, political and economic context of epochal scope for the future of the country, that a wide-ranging reform program be developed, built on a multiannual horizon, but that is sufficiently detailed to be able to identify and solve those structural nodes and systemic criticalities that prevent Italian economic growth. Therefore, it reiterates the importance, for the development of a shared and comprehensive strategy of relaunching the country, of a correct and complete involvement of Parliament and the opposition forces in the drafting of the plan for recovery and resilience (the so-called recovery plan). For reasons of time, I will mention only a few essential points: the use of the tax advantage and the State guarantee for bank loans at close to zero costs, to support the economic initiative in particular of micro and medium-sized enterprises; the introduction of a flat-rate advantage scheme (the so-called flat tax) for billed up to 100,000 euros; the reduction of the tax burden of companies through a progressive reduction of the corporate income tax rate from the current 24% to 20%, for tax periods after 31 December 2019 and until 31 December 2022. I would also like to mention the prospect of a further reduction, starting from 1 January 2023, by raising the rate of corporate income tax from 20% to 15%; the adoption of initiatives aimed at providing tax peace for taxpayers and businesses with the aim of reducing by 50% the outstanding loads and allowing for a dilation of payment of at least five years; the return of the level of taxation on the first and second homes to a sustainable level, encouraging the redevelopment of buildings and extending the dry coupon also to non-housing buildings and, at the same time, adopting urban regeneration plans; the explicit intention to continue the path undertaken by the previous government to achieve the differentiated autonomy of the regions that have made use of them, starting from those whose path is already advanced. In order to improve the efficiency of the judicial system, structural policies should also be identified to ensure a reduction and greater predictability of justice times, i.e. the duration of civil trials in all levels of judgment; implementing the efficiency of criminal justice, in particular in appeal proceedings. It is also necessary to pursue the objective of covering and extending the organic plants of the magistrates, administrative staff, as well as the retraining of staff in service, including through the completion of insolvency proceedings, and to carry out a process of retraining that allows to overcome the structural deficiencies of the Italian prisons and their overcrowding; to complete the organic plant of the prison police force and to provide a special attention to the court of minors as an instrument for the protection of minors, also reviewing the procedures of separation and divorce with minor children before the ordinary courts. Continuing with this list, I would also add the need to draw up a real plan of policies for the family, aimed at reversing the sad primacy of the lowest fertility rates in Europe. Also on the job side and social policies, I highlight the need to pursue policies that allow the inclusion of people with disabilities in society and in the world of work, and to adopt a strategic plan of Italy in a tourist-attractive key - we talk so much about tourism - through the protection and enhancement of small centres spread throughout the national territory, which are analytical testimony of the history, culture, art, landscape and traditions of each territory, and that together make our country unique. Moreover: it is necessary to support the excellence of Italian agro-food through the development of systems that encourage the adoption of high performance within the chain, following a strategy focused on the recognition of the link between animal health, human health and the ecosystem, to guarantee the diffusion of food models that, based on the principles of the Mediterranean diet, ensure quality, food safety, environmental sustainability. Touching also the school, it is necessary to solve definitively the problem of primary school teachers graduate before 2001/2002 - let's go back so much of the time - fired following the final judgments, but not included in the number of participants in the extraordinary competition held in 2018. Let us not forget the Defense, which must be a strategic priority to support for our country. Last but not least, consideration should be given to the need to allocate the necessary resources to offer all LEA citizens health and social and health care, including prevention and innovative care measures, which are already available today, but which are not yet foreseen as eligible health rights. I have tried to be extremely concise, because there are so many points that need to be analysed. In order to present a national recovery plan it is necessary - as has been said previously - that it is not a book of dreams and be declined in a precise and autonomous way, but at the same time interacting with each other, those that are individual points that can really manage to put a Italy back on its feet today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u21	I remember that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 3, of law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the deviation and approves the return plan is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the discussion will end with the approval of two separate acts of direction: the first, relating to the report referred to in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 160 votes; the second, relating to the National Reform Programme for the year 2020, referred to in Section III of the Economy and Finance Document 2020, to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the joint debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u22	Mr President, today the Senate has met to vote for a further 25 billion budget deviation and I shall make some purely political comments on this measure. Added to the other very recent deviations, the 25 billion that we will approve today make the considerable figure of 100 billion. In approving the new measure, we cannot fail to point out that 100 billion is half of the 200 billion allocated to us by the European Union to help the recovery of our economy in the post-Covid period. One hundred billion is a huge amount for a country like Italy and they are even more so as they go to increase the already very high debt of our country. Let us always remember that, also for the use of these resources, we must thank the European Union's decision to suspend deficit constraints for the countries affected by the pandemic. So far, Parliament has always approved every financial commitment proposed by the Government and has done so because of the pressure of events and knowing how necessary it was to intervene immediately to avoid a disaster not only economic, but also social and even humanitarian. Even today the majority - I hope with the help of the opposition - will recognize with the vote in favour the reasons that have led the Government to propose a further deviation of 25 billion. To my vote in favour, I add only two points and I am particularly pleased to do so in the presence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The first consideration is that it would be appropriate for the Government to report to Parliament on the criteria adopted so far for the total use of the 100 billion deviation that Parliament has approved. Of this maneuver - because although the deviations have been different, after all it is a single maneuver - we know that the one-off measures, of a social nature and directed to the refreshment of the damage suffered by the groups most affected, have prevailed over long-term structural investments, necessary to give life to those processes of development and reform without which, for the development of the economy of Italy and for employment, there is no future. One hundred billion is a huge amount, never in our country has a maneuver of this size been made and not even, in my memory, for half of 100 billion. I believe that it is very important for President Conte to explain what positive prospects have led him towards a commitment of 100 billion. We need to know whether there has also been room for structural measures to help our economy make a leap forward in terms of development, health security, cultural growth, employment supply, productivity and the reduction of the economic and social gap between the North of our country and the South. The second consideration, which connects closely to the first, takes into account that today the Senate is not only discussing the budgetary deviation, but also the National Reform Programme. Our debate must, therefore, try to look far and focus on the scenarios of the coming decades. And this is about us, it's about all the senators who will intervene. The President of the Council, in recent months, has come to Parliament several times, always illustrating and reporting, often also taking into account, with completeness, the facts that have marked the development of the crisis of the Covid-19 and the measures taken by the Government to counter its effects. He did so yesterday, taking into account in detail the orders that support the extension of the state of emergency On these reports by the President, Parliament has always confirmed its trust in the Government. Now we need something more than the necessary information on government measures. We are moving from the phase of containment of the epidemic, which the Government - we must say - has managed very wisely, to the phase of strategic decisions, which will mortgage our future. We need more politics. In fact, we need a great policy. President Conte - and I really ask Minister Gualtieri to tell him this point of view - illustrates his vision, the strategy that Italy believes should adopt, the horizon that Italians must expect. Illustrate a long-term scenario that helps to understand the meaning of every single intervention. Tell us about an overall project, up to the crisis and the consequent needs of the country. A detailed report on what could be done and what could be done is no longer enough. Parliament must know the President of the Council's thoughts on the fate of Italy in the coming years, on its direction, on the use of European aid and also, I stress, on the political conditions necessary to ensure that its guidelines are implemented. In the world, the development model is changing and we need to loosen the nodes of strategic importance. What does the drive towards a truly digital society mean, for example? What is involved in the awareness of environmental drama? What is the real, deep meaning of the increasing presence of the State in the economy? These, and many others, are the basic questions that await an answer, necessary for the choices of the recovery. It is no coincidence that I personally address President Conte. In view of our observatory, which is seen by Parliament, it seems that, in fact, a profound institutional transformation is taking place. The parties, on which, according to the Constitution, our parliamentary democracy is founded, are increasingly parties of the leader. Moreover, for many years legislative power has been transferred from Parliament to the Government, with the excessive use of decree-laws, often examined by one Chamber and ratified by the other, of the votes of confidence and of laws delegated by the evanescent content. Then there was the season of civil protection ordinances for major events and now the innumerable decrees of the President of the Council. It is not the individual measure that must concern us, but the overall trend, their repetition with an increasing frequency. At the same time, the form of government is also changing. In the last legislature, with the Renzi Government, something had already been seen. Now, with the Count Government, confirmations appear. The President of the Council of Ministers, gradually, by practice, is becoming head of the Government, with a quasi-hierarchical power to supplement the responsibilities that the Constitution puts at the head of individual Ministers. That is why, if the presence of the President of the Council in Parliament is very important, the quality of his speeches in the Chambers is even more important. Article 95 of the Constitution assigns to President Conte the direction and coordination of government activity: today is the time to fully exercise, within the limits and in the spirit of the Constitution, these powers. In democracy, the protagonists of the major fundamental choices that will affect the future of the country are numerous; they include political parties, parliamentary groups, but also economic and social actors. I believe that this is the reason for the broad consultation and the sense of convocation of the recent General States. But now, after listening to all the listenable, before reaching the final judgment of Parliament, a political synthesis is needed. Political synthesis is the responsibility to which President Conte is called today. I have to tell you that I thought before I took the floor this morning and asked President Conte to come back to Parliament for a high-policy speech, which shows a vision that is up to the needs and potential of Italy. I have decided to speak, because I think that a loyal senator with the Government, who is a majority and votes for confidence, has a duty of loyalty to the President of the Council even stronger than that of the opposition parliamentarians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u23	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and gentlemen of the Government, in the wake of the last European summit, I had hoped that, following the evidence of persistence, courage and responsibility expressed at European level, the Commission could give similar proof of courage and responsibility in Italy on Italian policies. I must say that my hope has not come true or is coming true. I do not want to confuse the reform plan for 2020 with the reform plan that will have to do with the recovery fund and the next generation EU: these are two different things and, therefore, I stick to the reports proposed for 2020. Therefore, this Assembly will be called upon by the Government to vote on the third budgetary deviation. I do not repeat the figures, because we know them now, but I insist that, with the package of EUR 100 billion of new public debt, we triumphantly start at the record figure of 2,500 billion public debt. Basically, we are coming to 157-158 in the debt-to-GDP ratio: a monstrous thing. In the plan presented there are two important aspects - in fact there are many, extensions and so on - of which one concerns measures to ensure the safe opening of schools in mid-September, with the agreement on sanitization. For this same intervention, however, Italy - as we know - could rely on the European credit line called MES - perhaps if we begin to call it Maddalena or Marianna, it becomes less radioactive - with objectives directly or indirectly health. On the contrary, we owe again. The second aspect in the proposed plan concerns the Health Service, for which Minister Hope indicated, in a hearing in Parliament, the figure of about EUR 20 billion. This too could and could be covered, at least in a very large part, by the famous 37 billion ESM. This is another intervention that could have been carried out if there had not been an ideological opposition to this fund. On the two previous occasions, like More Europe, I voted to allow the budgetary deviation simply because at the time there were no alternatives to that debt and it was the only possible source of funding for emergency interventions. On this occasion, however, I cannot vote in favour of a new proposal which I consider to be wrong in itself, already leading to higher funding costs for the public budget, which, moreover, have been encrypted. Please note that, after all the demagogy on young people, the higher costs will be borne mainly by the younger generations and, in particular, by today's students, who will suffer the crisis more severely in the coming years and will also be called to pay the luxury of having renounced the ESM. The Sure Fund, moreover, seems to me to be in the process of being implemented, but our request is not yet perfected. Did we make the request? It seems to me that there is still a lack of credit from the other Member States, is that correct? If you confirm that, it seems to me to be a good thing. I have noted the excellent work of Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri, his credibility, Minister, and Minister Amendola, for having been able to gain the confidence of the European institutions, which I believe Italy had lost during the previous Government. If the no to the ESM is the first stage of the process of approaching the recovery fund, there is little to hope for in the reform programme that we will have to present to the European Commission and the Ecofin and in the ability of this Executive to interpret a need for change in government policies and choices. If anyone in the majority believes that European funds are in themselves sufficient to reverse the tendency to decline that the Covid emergency has simply aggravated, it shows, in my opinion, that it does not understand the causes and, therefore, the possible solutions of the crisis that gripes us. Italy today has fewer jobs, fewer graduates and fewer graduates than other European countries. On the other hand, it is the country that counts most among the so-called not in education, employment, or training (NEET) and, that is, what counts many young people who do not study, do not seek work and are not in training processes. Nearly one in four young people between the ages of fifteen and twenty - nine years old do not study, work or seek work. One in two women is not occupied and this is also a bad record in Europe, after Greece. I think that we must stop inflating welfare expenditure and increasing the tax burden; I think that, starting from these instruments, we must think - and we will do so later - of the necessary reforms, but today I do not feel that I am voting for a further worsening of the monstrous debt on the shoulders of the new generations. The government had other tools and possibilities than to continue to do debt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u25	Mr President, I am speaking in general to draw the attention of this House to two points which seem important to me to assess the whole of the measure. I am referring in particular to the National Reform Programme and, of course, to the budgetary deviation that has been called for, which brings the total budget to 105 billion. I remember the unbelievable faces - even scandalized, I would say - of colleagues in the majority, when, at the beginning of March, we said that there would have to be an incisive intervention of the order of EUR 100 billion. By doing things in installments, we went to spend more: "The more you spend the less you spend" is popular wisdom, but also good governance, under exceptional circumstances. I would like to draw attention, in the meantime, to the way in which this money will be collected and financed, because yesterday in the hearing news was given that it must not have passed under silence: all the forms of loan that will come from the European Union - so not only the funds of the ESM, but also those of the Sure (Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency) and of recovery and residence facility - will have the status of privileged creditor. I would like to remind myself - of course, I would never allow myself to remind the House - that a privileged creditor, or senior, has the right to be paid before others, which, for a simple logical consequence, implies that others know that they are paid later, so they ask for a risk premium. It is not a great novelty, because it has been highlighted in scientific literature since 2014, the fact that, in these circumstances, subordinated creditors - those who know they are paid for seconds - ask for a risk premium (higher interest rates). And so, as many scholars have already argued in the current debate, particularly by Daniel Gros and other authoritative economists, this type of financing structure and this go with the hat in hand in Europe, when in reality our securities have the market, will result in a tragic increase in the cost of debt, on that part of debt which is clearly implied by the downgrading. It's extremely serious: I don't say it with animosity and I don't want to make controversy, I assure you, but, when I see this thing, I can think of the most famous "alone" for bundle of music history, "L'apprendista witch" by Dukas. Here we are playing with an extremely delicate subject and it is not worth getting away with minimizing it with the motivation that will be small loans: for the markets it is a bad signal. Let's go think about what should be done with the money collected: in the folds of the PNR the assets are hidden, through the Country specific recommendations number one (number one) of 2019 - I speak this way because at least I know I am understood by the Government - that the Country specific recommendations of 2020 transpose and that, as we know, will have to be transposed by the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. What does that recommendation say (which of course Germany and France do for our good, because the first one is really our friend)? That we need to review cadastral values in order to shift taxation from work to? Boh. I suppose we are talking about seeing them down again, since, as we know, with the IMU - which was the banner of that austerity that everyone now says was wrong, except perhaps who did it, which of course I respect - the prices of real estate since 2010 have collapsed by 23.7% (Confession reminds us in every single hearing here by us, in which its representatives participate). We know then that this revision actually masks the desire to increase taxation on real estate, which would be a tragic mistake. In this regard, if you will allow me to conclude, I would like to remind you of the proposal that we are moving forward, which goes in the opposite direction and is consequent on this great affliction with which we recognize that mistakes have been made, but we do not ask who must pay for having made them. If Europe has made mistakes, Europe must compensate us. Well, what we are asking here is that it be done with the rain of fantasies, is that the IMU be reduced by 30% and in particular that the properties located in the municipalities be exempted with less than 3,000 inhabitants to revive the internal areas and also the commercial ones defyed. It seems to us to be absolutely sustainable proposals, in light of the billions of rain that we are promised: it would be a sign of common sense and good will on the part of the Government to declare that it is committed to adopting them, rather than taking the dialogue to some table outside of here to carry us around - in a boat, as they say in Rome - for another month or two. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u26	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know today, we are about to vote for the budgetary deviation and the National Reform Plan because of the situation we have been in since the Covid emergency that we have been talking about for days. Just yesterday, the President-in-Office of the Council stated that the state of emergency will continue until 15 October, we voted in favour of the extension of the state of emergency and we agree with what the government is doing because we have not yet emerged from the emergency, as you can see from the data that are emerging in these days, that tell us that the virus is still between us and therefore we must draw the necessary consequences. We know that this is the first time, in the course of the Republican history of our nation, that a similar situation has arisen. There has never been such a dramatic emergency. However, as you have seen, our country is coming out, with so much effort and with the help of the forces put on the field. I am thinking above all of the medical staff and health care workers who have worked on the basis of their will and the need to improve a situation that was so emerging that it could not be done otherwise. These days, as we have also heard here in this House, after a long negotiation, an important agreement has been reached at the European summit, for which I believe you all recognize the role that Italy, our Premier and our Government have played. It was an important role in managing what had to come to completion, which went against the line of sovereignists and so-called frugal countries who finally understood that Italy was among the most affected countries but really took responsibility for a situation from which it is coming out much better than many other countries, as the media are saying. In addition to having achieved this important result, namely the availability of the 209 billion that will go to Italy, we have a great responsibility relative to the use of resources. This responsibility is not so much with regard to Europe, which will of course monitor how we will spend these figures because it is right that it should do so, but above all with regard to our children. We must not fail to think that we spend this money on the future of our children and certainly on the future of Europe, that we have seen how much more united it is than the first four long days of negotiation. It was understood that there was an emergency and that this agreement had to be made. The budgetary deviation in our examination, we know, is important. It's a huge amount. Over the last three months, we have adopted decrees providing for deviations in figures of almost four budget laws. That's never happened in all Republican history, either. However, we must not forget that we must use these important figures, because the health system has been put to the test and has been impacted by the crisis no less than the socio-economic system. The socio-economic system has been put to the test by lockdown, which was necessary, as can be seen from what they are fighting in other countries that have not adopted it. This system is the one that now weeps the most because, fortunately, we have fewer deaths and therefore we will cry less (I remember, however, that the dead have been there; I remind those who always say that there has been nothing, that they know no relatives who have had these problems, I remind the people who have said these sudden sentences). This leads us to say that now we must push to rebuild the socio-economic fabric, no less the social fabric that is under pressure, with all the families that are in difficulty and no less the health system that has been so strong, but that must be further strengthened. All this above all to homogenize the different regional systems, because we have seen the heterogeneity with which the Covid-19 was taken over. Some regions have worked very well, others much less and our task - even as parliamentarians, since we are bearers of the interests of our territories - is to make our National Health Service homogeneous through the use of the figures that will come, with the hope that many more will come. Among the things that have been said to us about the National Reform Programme, the Commission and the Council of the European Union are recommendations: they have noted - but we have already noticed this - that the health sector must strengthen the resilience and capacity of its system with regard to operators, essential medical products and infrastructure. These are all things we were aware of: you have seen the hard test of all doctors, of all health workers, the devices that were missing, especially those for intensive therapies. That's exactly what put us in front of the Covid-19 emergency. We must therefore implement the crisis preparedness plans; know that we have full drawers of these plans (I am thinking of chronic and preventive plans). We have so many things to implement and so we already have guidelines that could lead us to spend these resources, just to get to strengthen that important system that is the National Health Service. We must work to increase and enhance the staff who have worked more for the need to act than having the skills to deal with a new virus. Colleagues, I hope that the vote we are going to vote this afternoon on budgetary deviation will be unanimous, because I believe that we must all have a vision for the future of our country, rightly shared in Parliament, where we referents of the territory sit, and that it is also shared with the opposition forces. In fact, I believe that we all represent, for our part, our territory and we must all give a positive result to what we are doing. I really believe that this can be done, but it can be done uniformly and unanimously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u29	Mr President, like my colleague, Mr Zanda, who spoke in truth and responsibility, I would first of all like to address the President-in-Office of the Council, who is represented here by the Minister for Economic Affairs, on behalf of my Group and, to some extent, also on behalf of the centre-right coalition, because together we are presenting ourselves in the same unequivocal political position. I turn to the President-in-Office of the Council, after another bad signal was given yesterday to those who still trusted our country. We have given a very bad signal, extending the state of emergency by another three months, to some extent in countertrend with what all other European countries have done, who have long suspended the state of emergency, even the so-called sovereign countries, accused of abusing it. We do not, however, extend the state of emergency precisely in the Italian tourist season, giving an unequivocal negative signal to investors, savers and potential tourists in our country. In this context, we come to Parliament and call for further budgetary deviation. We have already voted, indeed we have pushed you at the beginning, you reluctant ones, to achieve the budgetary deviation, because for the first time you had presented yourselves with possible investment plans of EUR 3, 4, 5, 7 billion. Then, listening to the opposition, we came to EUR 25 billion and, with the subsequent budgetary deviation, to EUR 80 billion, which you badly spent, very badly. You did not listen to the opposition, you did not listen to the social partners, trade unions and businesses and this EUR 80-85 billion in additional debt, once employed, vaporized. The economic situation, in fact, tells us - and Istat, the European Commission and the rating agencies confirm this - that Italy is the country that is paying the most, because the less it is reacting to the crisis. Each estimate is worse than the previous one, because, as you operate, even Istat tells you that you are going the wrong way: 38 percent of companies risk closing down, half a million people have already left their jobs, despite the blocking of redundancies, and another 2 million could do so after the blockage of redundancies. GDP this year will fall from 9% to 13% and yesterday the Institute for Foreign Trade told us that exports this year will fall by 12%. Above all, they tell us that, continuing along this path, before 2025 we will have nothing but zero growth. You have already burned an impressive figure and now you are asking us for a third budgetary deviation in the dark. You ask us in the dark. You have presented a national reform programme that we do not know about: we will see the motions for resolutions. In the meantime, instead of thinking about how to build our children's future together, taking responsibility together, do an interministerial committee for European affairs, installed yesterday, consisting of representatives and technicians of the Government - another task force or something with such a semblance, to hide their responsibilities - open to local institutions, that is to say to the president of the Conference of the Regions, Bonaccini, of the Democratic Party, to the president of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), Decaro, of the Democratic Party and to the president of the Union of the Provinces of Italy (UPI), De Pascale, of the Democratic Party. In this interministerial committee for European affairs there is everything that you, today, cling to the chair and power, have become. There is the representation of an Italy that is no longer there, because for the Regions we vote on the right, but they are still represented by a democratic representative, for the Municipalities we vote on the right, but they are still represented by a President of the Democratic Party and for the Provinces, in which the vote is second level, we vote on the right, but they are still represented by a representative of the Democratic Party. The PD, which has a percentage of around 20% in surveys, represents all the institutions and wants to commit the country's resources for the next thirty years, without listening to the oppositions, which represent the majority of the country. Colleagues, do you realize the paradox and the detachment between real Italy and the one you claim to represent in an exclusive way, deciding exclusively? Even today, this is happening. You ask us for 25 billion euros of additional debt: according to the parliamentary technicians, the deterioration of the economic framework costs 52.5 billion euros in terms of competence and 51 billion euros in terms of cash; according to the parliamentary technicians, this brings to 392.3 billion euros the maximum level of the net balance to be financed, while you say little less, that is 384 billion euros. Whether 384 or 392 billion euros, I would remind you that in the budget law, before the health emergency, this figure was 129 billion euros. Do you realize what you're doing? 105 billion euros of budgetary deviation and a mountain of billions to be financed, about 392 billion euros, mortgageing the future not only of our children, but of our grandchildren, without having at the same time presented a plan of restructuring, simplification, investment, that allows us to make our grandchildren believe, that they are being born in these hours, that in twenty or thirty years they will be able to repay what we are spending today or better that we are wasting today, indeed, that you are spending and wasting today. The opposition is responsible, but we cannot be the only ones responsible in this Parliament. The responsible opposition tells you: do you want the opposition's support for the budgetary deviation? Well, we propose - they write it on the "Sun 24 ORE" the three leaders of the opposition - concrete things, a commitment, at least here. We are waiting for the President-in-Office of the Council or, on his behalf, the Minister for Economic Affairs to tell us to agree and accept the things we are asking for. At that point we are willing to continue with the sense of responsibility. But you have to answer us in this House, otherwise you will assume the responsibility, if this happens, to have a negative vote by the House on the budgetary deviation. You take responsibility for it. On "Il Sole 24 Ore" we have written clearly what our demands are in the field of tax (e.g. about the IMU and the movement of IRPEF and IRES accounts) and in the field of work. The integration fund is important, of course, we would miss something else, but we have to align it with the redundancies, otherwise the companies have their hands tied and go even deeper. At the same time, we say to you that the decree of dignity must be suspended; as far as bargaining is concerned, vouchers must be made for everyone; social security contributions must be reduced by at least half for investors who do not lay off. It is certainly necessary to adapt disability pensions, for an act of social equity and dignity of the person. We have put forward concrete and feasible proposals, put in black and white and signed by the three opposition leaders: do you answer us in this House, before taking responsibility - it can also happen - for not passing the budgetary deviation? Let's wait for that answer. I add and finish: in Europe we have won the battle - I say this in this Chamber without infidelity, try to deny me - because the sovereignist countries have helped us, have supported us and have allowed us to defeat the frugal countries of the North, which are headed by your allies, that is, by the People's Party and the Liberal Party, with your mercantile ideology. The sovereignist countries, led by Orban and the Polish leader, supported Italy with sword and put Dutch bucaniers on the bench. Why do you continue with a false, openly false prayer that does not honour you and the Italian Parliament? They are the sovereignists who have granted and allowed Italy to win its battle for survival; they have been our best, most determined and stubborn allies. In conclusion, we are willing once again to defend the national interest. But you must give a signal, without which then is true, unfortunately, the narration that passes from the country. Everyone protests: accountants, job consultants, businesses, unions. According to this narration you use money only for clientele and assistance, desperate attempts at electoral recovery. In this way you are not burning our destiny; you are burning the fate of our children and grandchildren. We can't. allow it to happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u30	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u31	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking on and thinking about taking on a serious responsibility, because the events that led us to approve the first and then the second budgetary deviation in a certain sense were a bit like a full river. When the decree finally came out, we began to think about it, asking where all this money is going that the country has never had available since the post-war period in such a short time, in debt, especially after years and years of austerity. What idea of Italy are they going for? Who are they helping, beyond the issues we know, that of the Cassa Integrazione that has not arrived or that of the funds, 25,000-30,000 euros? That is why we are today wondering what we are going to vote for or should go to vote for a further deviation and that is to do another EUR 20-25 billion in debt. We have made our proposals. We have spoken clearly of things that are very close to our heart, starting with the fiscal year, even if we could perhaps talk not about the white year, but about the white semester; we have talked about the problem of the integration fund, which I believe was also the subject of yesterday's hearing of the Minister, because now the injection of the integration fund must be replaced by a fundamental concept, namely the fact that companies have to start working again, but above all to maintain employment levels and to assume in perspective. We have also talked about a serious problem of social justice because, in general indifference, there has not been enough talk of a very important ruling by the Constitutional Court, which puts a point on the share of disability pensions, which obviously has to find the funds and implement them. We have therefore made a series of proposals, which I am not here to repeat because they are today in the pages of the "Sun 24 Hours," translated by a serious and important formal act, that is to say a letter signed by the leaders of the center-right in unitary form, which I like to emphasize. We would like to know if the attitude of the majority - I am not just talking about the government - changes with regard to the construction of these acts, because there is something serious that has not worked and I say this not only because the country tells us - the accountants and the consultants of the job are in the square, the enterprises protest, so the tourism sector: situation that we all know - but because there is something in the overall approach that makes us afraid that 100 billion of injection of public money will not reach the goal. We see that we take measures sometimes perhaps sewn a bit on some approaches very detached from the Italian reality, that go to penalize the small and media reality that characterizes our economy, so they are perhaps ideas that then, translated into practice and seen in their concrete implementation, do not help those who actually hold on the shoulders the small and medium economy of the country. We see that this is not the case, because the gap between generations, for which we have broken generations, between those who have lived the world after the collapse of the Berlin Wall and those who have lived virtually their whole lives, since 2000 onwards, in what has been the crisis, and these measures do not allow us to make that blow, which instead 100 billion euros should absolutely allow a country. That is why we call for serious reflection and for this we know that we have a huge responsibility on our shoulders in relation to today's vote. I would like to draw particular attention, in addition to the measures already called for by my colleagues, to the fact that this country has serious points of suffering which it carries and which should be resolved. I think, for example, about the problems relating to real estate: we were a rich country, because we had the houses and the Bots, you will all remember. We have become a poor country because, no longer being able to earn on the Bots, savers put money - as they say in our parts - under the brick and houses are no longer an investment, but a loss. So the reasoning on the taxation of real estate, the IMU, is important for this, it is not only a question of demagogic character or opposition: it is the symptom and the sign of a time that has changed and has impoverished. To think that the house today is a rent is a completely wrong concept, also considered the crazy thing of the eviction block, of which we have already said in other places. There is another point I would like to highlight. Although there is all this money, we have the Municipalities in distress; there is little talk of it, perhaps, because it is not a matter of consensus, but attention, because the social part today the Municipalities are managing it, of every color, which, to date, do not have the coffers sufficiently in place to deal with this social discomfort that is and is at the head of the municipal administrations. Another point I wanted to stress, even if it must always be included in the general framework of reference, is that of the honorary judiciary. We are talking here about reform of justice by tackling the civil and criminal trial, but with Damocles' sword of a situation that has not yet been resolved, which is that of the honorary magistrates. Time prevents me from making a more thorough reasoning, but I wanted to point out to flash some issues and above all to say that nobody takes today's vote lightly and nobody takes it without a deep sense of responsibility towards the State and the citizens we represent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u32	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u33	Mr President, our country has been hit by a pandemic that no one expected and has no precedent: in addition to creating an economic and social crisis, we have over 35,000 victims. The emergency is not over: I would like to repeat it in this House, because I often feel that we are out of it and that we have to take it all away. It's not like that. Some European countries, including Spain, Germany, Belgium and France, are beginning to set restrictive rules, such as night curfew or quarantine for those arriving from abroad. So we are not the only ones who are paying attention; indeed, we must not lower our guard. In my life I have always tried to be positive and even in this emergency I would like to look at a positive side. I want to take this emergency as a shock, as a shock therapy. We must recover, we must raise our heads and, with due caution, rebuild this country. We have a historic opportunity and if we do not take the opportunity to bridge the generational and economic gap that has plagued us for years, we will no longer have the chance. We've done a lot these past few months. Do the opposition say we could do more? Maybe so, I say that you can always do better; in the meantime we are doing the best we can. In Europe we have achieved a historic result, not at all taken for granted. The deviation and the new funds of the European Union allow us to implement strategies in the short and long term, with a vision and a project for Italy from here to thirty years, open to all, majority and opposition, on ideas. I have always been convinced that the best idea is that of a thousand ideas; therefore, everyone's ideas come well. On the contrary, we must listen to young people, we must make a synthesis with them; let us think of a kind of national youth consultation: we cannot lose contact with schools and universities. Young people have dreams totally different from those we have and we had; they have another vision, we have to listen to them. On the question of European funds, let me be clear. We cannot expect to return them unless in ten years' time, and the Stability Pact itself must be suspended for ten years, the time it takes to see the fruits of the measures we are implementing now. Going to repay them first would be difficult. The PNR has programmatic lines that touch on different strategic areas: the digitalization of the Country, the infrastructures, a more competitive economic fabric, the support to the enterprise, a more fair and inclusive Italy. We must start from the ultra-wide band plan: it is a point that will allow us to activate ultra-fast services for the country, including the public administration, but we must guarantee access to the network to all citizens. Companies, after this pandemic, have changed, they have to change. We have a different model to develop: demand and supply move in other ways than before the pandemic. The situation is evolving and we must aim, with the digitization of the enterprises, to accompany the entrepreneurs also in different markets and business. Our entrepreneurs are good, they are creative, they are healthy entrepreneurs who see long, and we must give them all the opportunities. In this regard, I am linked to the trade fairs. We forgot about the trade fairs. The supply chain and trade fairs are still waiting to be renovated. If we want to support companies, we must restart trade fairs in September, but they must have all the economic tools and rules to share and promote businesses. A modern Italy must also have an integrated infrastructure and transport system. On the reorganisation of airports, the competent Commissions are examining draft law No 727 at the first signature of my colleague Giulia Lupo, who gives clear delegations to the Government in the field of airports. Let's carry it out immediately and avoid to return with tricks works already failed at the TAR such as, for example, the airport of Florence. Infrastructure means not only airports, but also road and rail connections, which must be functionally and functionally designed. Citizens must be supported to go to work, for those who do business, but also for those who want to travel and do tourism. Another point is tax reform: we have heard about it for years and we have to do it. We need a clear, single and slender tax system, based on simplification and fairness. We can start by rewording income scales and rates, and if anything, expanding the no tax area. Finally, there is the issue of local authorities. We must try to free more of the resources from their budgets, one way would be to suspend the provision of losses on the participating companies, the municipalities have done so much and can continue to do so. We must be faster and respond to the challenges of modernity. We have full confidence in Italians and the Government. We are there and look forward to leaving. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u34	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u35	Mr President, I began to read and study this National Reform Programme and honestly realized that nothing has changed. I read from the Minister's remarks that it is here that the main objective is to combat tax evasion and the return of public debt. But if you write that you want to reclaim the public debt and then you make another 200 billion loan, I don't find myself. I thought it was us, that we are the opposition, and most of us had common goals, that is to make this country great. I realized, however, that the difference between us and you is in values. You have the value of decline, but we have the value of growth. [[Applause]] I heard her earlier say that infrastructure must be closed down and airports closed down. We have the concept of merit, you have the concept of mediocrity, that is, all are equal. We have the concept of competence, of entrepreneurship, but you still have the concept of classes. I would like to live in a country where one starts from scratch and becomes one of the most wealthy men in the country, instead you have the system of classes and this document is proof of this. It's evidence that doesn't change anything. I was 20 when I heard about tax evasion control. Only a madman may think that sowing in the same way will achieve different results. This brings the country to the abyss. You have to change, structure this country differently. Those we give are suggestions that you may welcome. I would like to live in a country where the President-in-Office of the Council is directly elected by the people - you did not write this - and not find himself a university professor to manage today the most important crisis since the Second World War taking full power, because a elected professor at the university took them, who won a competition and who is managing the country. Maybe we lived in a federalist country, in an autonomous country: we saw how well the Regions behaved during the emergency Covid and they did it because they are in contact with reality, they do not live on Mars. More power should be given to the regions, perhaps also giving them taxation, making them even more autonomous. That would free us. If education were entrusted to the competence of the Regions, surely today they would manage it better than Minister Azzolina. That's for sure. [[Applause]] Your goal is to destroy the enterprise and you are doing well. You're talking about control, but how do you talk about corporate control? Businesses must be valued and helped. How? With flat tax, a simple tax, just point, to give the possibility of growth to companies, instead of going to destroy them at this time. You can't tell the restaurateurs that if they don't make it close, because your mentality isn't our mentality. [[Applause]] Our mentality is to help them, perhaps with a flat tax, or with a very simple thing, that is, predicting that for one, two or three years those who hire do not pay contributions, not like now that if you take someone for three days of trial you have to pay 600 euros. The other night a restaurateur told me that he had to pay 600 euros for three days of trial, between various costs. This is your country model. You want to destroy everything, destroy who wants to do it. And that's where the values of merit come in. With our entrepreneurial mindset, we would like to live - I tell you as a suggestion - in a public administration that does not pay for the time spent at the desk, but pays its employees according to the merit, according to what they do during the hours of work. This would be nice: to have the same mentality in the public as in the private. Then, in order to become a really great country, maybe it would take some foreign policy. We are realizing that Erdogan's Turkey is taking more and more power today with values that are completely different from ours. We stand firm and have no foreign policy whatsoever. It doesn't say anything here. I tried to find a reference, and I couldn't find it. Finally, and then I am silent, perhaps a serious reform of the judiciary would be necessary. A separation of careers - this would serve - where the times of the trials are not extended because we are unable to carry them out. This is not justice, but injustice. You couldn't do anything but free the mob bosses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u36	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u37	Mr President, I ask for permission to submit the text to the documents at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u38	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u39	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, I am convinced that the only way not to throw money away is to plan our future. It is not a pun, but exactly what we must do and that this day of good debate in this House must also lead us to do. I have already had the opportunity to say that the great European economic manoeuvres, particularly the recovery fund, but it is not the only one, are analogous to the Marshall plan. Plan that had three great merits. One: to respond to the emergency of those in desperate conditions; two: to invest in the industrial rebirth of the continent; three: to work for peace and economic, social and cultural cohesion through European integration. Today the situation is, in some ways, similar, but with a substantial difference. We ourselves can and must be the protagonists of this. The Green transition is a key axis of the Union. In the National Reform Program, the environmental objective of the green new deal is threefold: mitigation and adaptation to climate change; contrast and reduction of pollution and its consequences on health; circular economy. Attention: Green is not a sectoral approach, as many think, but it is a common denominator, linking with a single thread all investments aimed at the future. It is not, as someone says, just to do everything in respect of the environment, but to understand that the environment is the real business action for those who want to have the future. Today it is already so for banking groups, it is so for insurance companies, it is so for investment funds, it is so in the common perception to which all forms of marketing are adapted. I say this because we feel the presence of a short-sighted reasoning and feeling of the type: the environment is fine, fashionable, Greta spoke about it, the young people from all over the world have talked about it, but now let's move on to serious things. The same spread of the virus, with the correlation between deforestation, urban sprawl and consequent contact between man and animal, must teach us something, as well as the spread of the virus in polluted areas. In all this, science and technology are extraordinary tools in our hands that, if used for the right purpose, can help bring wealth, justice and sustainability into the triple environmental, social and economic dimension. Appropriately, then, the National Reform Program that we are talking about today, speaks of Green and Innovation Deal National, which combines public investment with private investment. I visited the research department on new materials to produce zero waste last November in Berkeley. A working group composed almost exclusively of women, headed by a Sicilian physics graduate in Rome. Two-dimensional materials, because of the thickness of an atom, that allow the production of matter as in the Lego, composing and breaking down the products once used with the new materials-Lego, ready for new uses. Five are, in our opinion, the major infrastructure platforms on which to invest. Certainly there is that material; certainly there is the immaterial one: broadband, 5G, data center, cloud technology. The theme of digital citizenship is no longer elusive. Then there is the energy infrastructure: we have to switch from traditional fuels, of carbon origin, to renewable energy, managing, in the transition, gas. We must guarantee the country's energy security, reducing its dependence on imports, diversifying sources of supply, increasing energy efficiency. With regard to the waste cycle, in our country we have a leopard spot situation, with areas completely free of recycling plants, where there are absurd situations of separate collection by public waste companies, which then become undifferentiated again due to the lack of plants able to close the cycle. In this regard, please read the report of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate and the clear and explicit complaint of the close link between the absence of a national waste plant policy and the proliferation of crime, even of a mafia nature, both in the South and in the North. Of course, then there is the great meta-infrastructure of knowledge and social cohesion, which are the real intangible heritage of our country. Mr President, at European Union level, very much, but very well, has been done with the issuance of joint bonds and thus with debt sharing. It is a historical passage, with great perspectives, which tells in a plastic way that the true patriots, those who defend national interest, are the Europeanists. In line with this, European tax rules must also be instrumental in guiding strategic conversion, capable of producing wealth, well-being and political strength on our continent. So the European plastic tax, which will now be discussed, or the carbon tax and the digital tax, not to make cash, but to make the future. Priority 5 of the Sustainable Development Goals includes, in point 11, sustainable cities and communities: mitigation and adaptation, water networks and sewage systems. As far as water networks are concerned, the situation is dramatic in the South, but it is also completely inadequate in the rest of the country, with 50% loss of the system. The sewage system is no longer able to absorb exceptional rainfall, which has become - oxymoron - now norm in our country, from Palermo to Turin, passing through Biella. Finally, Mr President, a word on a fundamental issue: cities. This is a strategic issue, which is never sufficiently in-depth and not even thematic. The national urban law of reference dates back to 1942; the fundamental decree that defines typologies, distances, heights, volumes, shapes, index of densification, burdens or other is of 1968: decades totally different for social composition, demographic growth, economic structure; years of expansionary and sectoral urbanism, when now instead it needs a regenerative and holistic urbanism. We consume every year a virgin surface of soil in our country equal to the extension of the city of Bologna, while the three-quarters of the private residential building in Italy are of energy class G, the worst, with a waste of money of 20 billion euros per year. Urban sprawl produces delusional cities, involving scattered and frightened communities. We have to radically change course. We must produce a great plan of demolition building, demolishing and rebuilding, in a regenerative vision both of the urbs and of the civitas. To achieve all this, President, we need a national policy on cities that, paradoxically, in the country of the thousand municipalities has never been. We must overcome the fragmentation of urban projects, perhaps even important ones, such as the city plan and the outskirts ban, but left to a programmatic fragmentation without continuity and vision. We therefore need policies and governance and a national institutional place for decisions. Mr President, the funds that this Government has earned in Europe, and those made available to the state budget, serve this, no less than that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u40	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the state of emergency in Italy was approved yesterday in this House. In our opinion, it is a serious mistake because it will actually prolong a bad image of our country, which will still be perceived as a sick country, prostrated and from which to stay away. It is all the opposite of what Italy would need now. Our country now needs strength, strength and strength. [[Applause.]] Italy needs support and support to survive and restart. Today we have a great opportunity. With the budgetary deviation and the National Reform Programme we have two possibilities: to give the final blow to a country to waste or to change our fate; tertium non datur. Let us remember that with the budgetary deviation granted by Europe we assume a further debt - it has been recalled by all those who intervened before me - with which we will win and mortgage the future of our children and grandchildren. For the first time, we have the opportunity to decide how to use it, and then we can also give it back proudly. I remember, in fact, that, under the regime of deviation and, therefore, not of ordinary budget, there are no rigid expenditure chapters on which to graft defined resources, but that every single cent spent by this Government will be a decision of the same with respect to the priorities that will be given. Let me explain better: this Government will be able to decide whether to make Italy a country of beggars, servant of the rest of the world, preferring assistantism, unproductive current spending, easy populist consent, unbridled and Jacobin statism and, in that case, will assume full responsibility, or can decide to open up to sharing responsibility, involving and listening to all the political forces present in Parliament, to really give a turnaround, to leave behind the emergency and transform it into a grand opportunity. You are great when you are humble; you are great when you have the ability to listen and share. Today I sent a clear, unequivocal, sincere and serious message from the centre-right. Today, the united centre continues in its work of responsible proposal bringing to the Government the voice of the productive, economic and social categories. It is a voice that stands out unanimously, as proof of the country's malaise. Minister Gualtieri and Deputy Minister Misiani, today it is a voice; tomorrow it could be a cry and a much more confused reaction. We are and will always be there for the good of the country, but not as silly servants or useful idiots; not in the dark, because we cannot, on the contrary, be complicit in the wrong choices for this country. If our voice, which belongs to all categories, will not be heard, we will raise the barricades. We will have a very hard fight of opposition because we have a duty to monitor the good use of resources that will be a heavy debt for Italians, so that they are not wasted in welfare operations or, even, clientele while the country suffers. I would like to say a few words about the sensible action of the most inadequate Minister of Education of Italian history, who, if not stopped immediately, will spend public money on the purchase of useless wheelchairs that will bring only pain and misfortune. [[Applause.]] Think of a little more robust kid, a disabled kid, or a left-handed kid, like me, who I've always hated not knowing where to put my elbow when I'm writing. These benches, as I said, will bring pain and misfortune to a school that would deserve only to be left in peace, because the leaders and school workers are already organized: they have already sent letters to families about how the schools will be reopened, simply leaving a student on the stand, as we have always said. Shame on you! At this moment, Italy does not need a lawyer, but a good family father. The government has not yet expressed its views on how the Commission intends to use these new, huge resources. We will decide what to do together with respect to the answers that will come. The points for us are clear: tax, labour, social justice, school, business and health; the fiscal white year you are not granting it to us, but it would have been the most beautiful thing: I would have kept a part of this deviation, as a government, and I would have transferred a share of it to the local authorities for the lack of revenue; then, I would have released free companies and companies to work, work and work without thought. [[Applause]] , of the series "for a year don't think about it; don't think about anything, we have money for lack of income". That you give me 600 euros and ask me 900 of INPS, guys, doesn't solve the situation. We therefore call for the exemption of operators of production activities from the payment of the second year of IRPEF and IRES for the year 2020. We call for a 30% reduction in the IMU calculation coefficients and a total exemption for municipalities under 3,000 inhabitants and for unfinished commercial and productive properties. After recognizing the need to extend the ordinary redundancy fund by way of derogation, whose deadlines must be aligned with those of the dismissal block, we consider it essential that, in order to protect employment, measures should also be taken to reward entrepreneurs who maintain employment levels, for example with the reduction of 50% of the employer's social security contributions for companies affected by the crisis that do not reduce the number of employees (and I remind you that on 18 August it is close, when the window for dismissals opens: be careful, because from that moment it will start and trigger the fuse). We call for the suspension of the decree of dignity and the re-introduction of the voucher system in general form [[Applause]] : This is what we ask from the first day of activity of this and of the past Government. We strongly call for the immediate implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling calling for the adjustment of invalidity pensions. We call for the ecobonus system to be made possible by clear implementing decrees, to help small businesses in particular to redeem their tax credit and to extend it to other cadastral categories, such as the A1 [[Applause]] , and that the implementations come out quickly, because the construction sector is still stationary (then there are the plants and the environment, which needs facts). If we do not start again to the great, we are lost: it is useless to talk about the environment and the green deal if we do not accompany the words the facts, because the protection of the environment - I keep repeating it - passes from innovation, development and work and only our companies will know how to make the difference. The current expenditure, with which I start to conclude, will have to be reserved only for the weakest categories (disabled, caregivers, elderly and sick): everyone else gets up from the chair and go to work; we create the conditions to work, because Italy wants to do it. Let's make a real school revolution: let's introduce the standard cost per student, give the money directly to the families, let's leave the freedom of educational choice and raise the quality of the offer thanks to the healthy and virtuous competition that would grow. Don't be wrong, we sincerely ask you, with the strength of the love we feel for our country: Italy is the most beautiful country in the world; Made in Italy is the most famous brand, synonymous with quality. We are proud and proud to be Italian, therefore Forza Italia, together with the League and the Brothers of Italy, the united center, will make a serious and coherent opposition in the interest of the Italians and our Municipalities, who are doing battles and solve many problems that you do not even realize [[Applause]] If the interest of the Italians is respected, we will be there; otherwise, our opposition will become fierce and, precisely to defend the Italians, we will not be able to vote in favour. The responsibility will be all yours, therefore, with all your heart, for the good of the Italians, we hope that this will not happen: we are here, listen to us and listen to Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u43	Colleagues, considering that thirty interventions are planned, I call you to respect the times. You have the floor, Senator Saviane.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I was struck by Mr Zanda's speech, who, if I understood correctly, asked me to know Conte's vision and the account of the use of resources resulting from the deviations. If this is requested by such an authoritative majority, let alone by the minority and by Italian citizens. Well, that's the transparency of the Count Government. [[Applause]] The PNR, third section of the DEF, is usually proposed and presented together with the stability programmes, first and second sections of the DEF, which is the document containing analyses and trends in public finance. The PNR, this year, causes Covid-19 pandemic, was exposed after the adoption of the Chamber and Senate resolutions on the DEF. In this regard, it is important to stress that Italy is the only European country that has not submitted its National Reform Plan to the Commission in accordance with the timetable set. The arguments set out in the document relate to the tax wedge on labour which is too high. The accumulation over time of unequal treatment between different sources of income and the exorbitant complexity of the system are completely truthful but not unique themes because in the historical moment in which we live, the question of taxation is obvious to everyone. The programme also talks about tax evasion and lists a number of solutions, among which the best known is that of a progressive reduction in cash payments resulting in the spread of electronic payments, with great favours for banks and increased costs for citizens and business activities. [[Applause]] The use of cash, especially in the trade sector, has always been a valuable and practical tool. It makes no sense to go over the idea that if cash disappears, tax evasion disappears at the same time. The auditions made in the Committee on Finance on current account reports show that large tax evaders and crime are proceeding quietly and illegally with electronic payments using cryptocurrencies and that most of the capital evasion takes place through accounting forgery rather than cash. The economy of our country is represented by self-employed workers, professionals and VAT matches to which a hand must be stretched considering that the crisis lives directly on their skin. For these categories there is a need for a clear position that provides for the simplification of IRPEF and VAT requirements and a revision of the actual and presumed receipts, giving a sponge blow upstream of the infernal system of the balance and the down payment. In this sense, the League is making its contribution with a draft law presented a few days ago that provides, among other things, the elimination of inefficiencies and the limitations that characterize the current system of compensation of claims and debts to public administrations, while introducing an innovative instrument to accelerate and simplify their implementation. As for the flat tax, the League presented a bill on May 29th. In essence, we are aiming for a real and new tax reform with the taxpayer at the centre who must not be vexed by obligations and bureaucracy. Only by giving certainty and stability to the tax rules, by easing the whole system, can the relationship between taxpayers and financial administration be improved, regaining that confidence in the state that is the fundamental prerequisite for a real growth and competitiveness of the country. [[Applause]] I shall conclude my speech with a reflection on regional differentialism. A subject which, although addressed, does not receive the sympathy of this Giallorossi majority, as one perceives the will not to give answers to the citizens of Veneto and Lombardy who have expressed themselves clearly in a referendum. More than a thousand days have passed since the consultation that we can also call a plebiscite in Veneto, but there is deafening silence or perhaps an even more serious disinterest, because it tramples on the will of the citizens. Not only Veneto and Lombardy ask for answers on this subject, but other regions have called for the implementation of differentiated regionalism. The government suffers from serious deafness and does not show interest not only in the problems of citizens, but also in local authorities and institutions. The Government is only able to draw up documents and approve them for its use and consumption, such as the extension of the state of emergency, but of everything outside the Palace, citizens, everyday life, workers, business world, school and health care, does not care at all, showing an incredible disinterest and an embarrassing confusion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u45	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary deviation and the National Reform Programme we are discussing must represent a turning point, a time when selfishness and particularism are useless means of propaganda rhetoric. Today we have a duty to strive towards the ambitious goal of relaunching. I would like to stress that in Chapter 3 (4) of the Programme the key words are productivity, competitiveness and justice and, in order to achieve the objectives of decent work and economic growth, peace, justice and strong institutions. In particular, with regard to the objective of access to justice and trust in the institutions, it is necessary that the administration of justice be made modern and efficient. The duration of civil and criminal proceedings, albeit reduced in recent years, is still excessive and will have to be significantly reduced by the adoption of procedural and legal reform measures accompanied by the necessary measures to strengthen and adapt staff resources, instrumental and technological endowments. The structural policies with which the Government has undertaken to act to restore confidence in the judicial system will be complemented by the reform of the civil and criminal process, the reform of the tax process as well as the discipline of the elections and the functioning of the Supreme Council of the judiciary (CSM). The satisfaction with the services is represented by the national indication of the duration of civil proceedings; compared to 2000-2018, we see that in the last two years there has been an abbreviation of the duration of the proceedings, which remains however high. Already during the Covid-19, for health needs, telematic modalities have been used both for the criminal process and for the civil process. The digitalisation effort, which also corresponds to an improvement in the working conditions of justice workers, has already been confirmed internationally, placing Italy among the most advanced European countries. In this sense the Movimento 5 Stars has always looked with attention to innovation and digitalization. A significant impact in civil matters will be the use of alternative dispute resolution tools, such as mediation and assisted negotiation. In order to eliminate and speed up judicial proceedings pending at the Courts of Appeal, it is possible to employ ancillary honorary judges, whose staff will be increased, strengthening the responsibilities of the heads of the offices and of the judges assigned for the purpose of respecting the reasonable duration of the trial provided that an increase of staff is also foreseen, both as regards judicial figures and as regards administrative staff. From the point of view of the execution of the sentence, it is right to reiterate that this Government has always paid particular attention to the phenomenon of imprisonment, also through the implementation of significant and functional interventions of prison construction, both with the redevelopment of the existing spaces and with the increase of detention posts, achieving a threefold order of benefits: the improvement of the working conditions of the operators, the improvement of the living conditions of the prisoners and the raising of the general level of security. As Voltaire said: "Do not show me your palaces but your prisons, for it is from them that you measure the degree of civilization of a nation." Prison is the mirror of a country's civilization and Article 27 of the Constitution establishes the principle of re-education and re-socialization of the sentence, but, in order to achieve it, particular attention must be paid to the spaces and the penitentiary building. It is no coincidence that the 1975 legislator, among the first articles of the Law on penitentiary law, identified minimum measures for penitentiary circles. The emergency of overcrowding is an atavistic problem, which must be addressed with human resources, therefore with the implementation of the staff of prison police, educators, mediators, accountants and prison managers, but on the other hand we must also look at innovation, which involves the installation of new alarm systems, the purchase and use of drones, body rooms and video surveillance terminals, to allow a truthful reconstruction of the facts, in case of critical episodes, that unfortunately involve the penitentiary administration. Many prison structures need renovation work, which could be included in the 110% ecobonus, thus allowing to restructure dilapidated structures, with energy and seismic adaptation, as well as to predict the construction of removable complexes and the closure of small complexes, which are very expensive, in favour of the so-called judicial citadel. On the contrary, the hope is that these citadels can be realized in a short time, to facilitate the work of those who work within the structures but also that of those who have to interface with the same for work purposes. I believe that a sharing must be achieved and therefore put aside all the political peculiarities, so that together and united we can implement the greatest recovery plan that our country has ever launched. I would like to pay particular attention to women mothers who are confined to prisons, so there is a need for more suitable facilities to be provided for, in order to accommodate not only prisoners who have to atone for a sentence but above all children who are innocent victims. It is also necessary to provide for an extension of residences for the implementation of security measures, the so-called REMS, precisely because, to date, many people suffering from mental or socially dangerous disorders pass through prisons, even sine titulo. So the hope is that in a short time, in order to adapt to the needs... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] We can get these targets home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u48	Mr President, yesterday Parliament debated the crisis situation and noted that although epidemiological indices are improving, we remain in a very particular, very complex and very difficult condition, so the state of emergency remains. However, looking at the epidemiological data, we can say that the emergency at the moment does not concern both the virus situation and the economic and labour situation. We have - ahinoi - hundreds of thousands of people who are at risk of work because of the condition in which the economy is located; therefore it is absolutely appropriate to continue with the state of emergency and with targeted policies that give the sense of the emergency itself. One of these is the Government's request to be able to make a new and important overtaking of the budget, which follows those we have already authorised: another 25 billion euros to be allocated to the country's recovery needs. We believe that it is absolutely appropriate, but it is clear that a condition like this must see a great sense of responsibility and also an important reading ability, in order to be able to orient itself in the new context that has been created not only in our country, but in the world, in order to follow the right path and therefore not disperse this incredible, extraordinary and unique opportunity that is offered to us. In an article these days, the weekly "The Economist" wonders about the fact that world economies are going through an epochal change, one of those changes that happens once every generation, so not in a repetitive and cyclical way, however never equal to itself. We can recall, in the 1930s, the introduction of the so-called Keynesian policies, with the intervention of the State in the economy in order to cope with the serious crisis of '29; or the policies of monetarism, which in the 1970s tried to resolve the crisis linked to oil and the consequent stagflation that plagued the countries, or again, in the 1990s, when the central banks acquired greater independence over the political power that raged on their policies (that greater independence led to a stabilization of interest rates and therefore to more favourable development possibilities). In 2007 the great financial crisis that struck Western countries could have led to a radical change in economies, but instead somehow this change was aborted. Well today, not an economic event, but a health event such as the crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic actually leads to a radical change in economies as we have known them. We must be fully aware of this change. The characteristics of this new economic era, which has in fact already begun, are above all a massive dimension of the loans that the State is making, with the mass of public debt growing considerably. We are talking about 4,200 billion dollars: this is the estimate that has been made of the value of the new debt that the developed states are authorising. We are talking about about 17% of GDP in developed countries. This new money is issued to finance first and foremost new public debts; this greater public debt, however, translates itself - here on the one hand is the great opportunity, but on the other hand the great risk - into a very strong influence of politics on the economy, because politics can de facto return to determining what can be saved and what must not be saved. Policy can decide which companies can be put under the conditions of sharing and which ones will not be. Think of the incredible and huge liquidity operation that was also done by our Government; not all this liquidity will result in salvation for businesses: the time will come for someone to run away and the State, our State, will have the power to decide whether to save those companies with new public resources or determine their death. So we need to be fully aware of this radical change that is taking place in the economy. Here, of course, is the risk, that is, the influence of politics, that is, as I said, what to finance and what not. I believe that even at this stage, in which we are discussing today whether or not to authorise the Government to make a new major deficit of EUR 25 billion, we must have clear conditions of great novelty that are being imposed in all developed countries that are facing the crisis resulting from the pandemic. I believe that the government has clear conditions. We must urge him and be aware, not only as a majority but as a Parliament, of the fact that we must tell the Government explicitly what it will have to favour and what it will have to exploit in some way through this new budgetary deviation. It is clear that the Government will extend the interventions on the Integration Fund, because it is a priority to help work and companies and therefore at the same time will protect liquidity, even with the reprogramming of tax deadlines: we think it is absolutely appropriate to go and reprogram them and to expire them at a later time. There is a need for support for companies, for the productive sectors most affected: I am thinking first of all of tourism, which still needs considerable action. Then there is the question of the local authorities that, with very low revenues, risk not being able to square their budgets: only the City of Milan has counted about 500 million euros of less revenue for which, without further intervention, we risk distraught of the local authorities. Then there are the schools and the resumption of the teaching activity, which must take place with a teaching in presence, but which also takes into account the protection of health. It is important that, after these necessary interventions, on which Italy Viva believes to have to authorize the Government to a new deviation, we arrive then to the phase in which, also thanks to the important resources that Europe will make available to us and that our Government has been able to bring home from the difficult negotiation that has ended a few days ago, will be started the path of revival, that will only pass through an important reactivation of the investments, both public and private, also thanks to the simplification of the administrative procedures that with the decree simplifications we will go to deal. The National Reform Programme tells us what path we will have to take for this revival: fiscal reform, a decontribution to the world of work, the strengthening of social and family support policies, bureaucratic simplification and justice, as well as tangible and intangible investments that will have to be characterised by the key to sustainability. We believe that the path is the correct one. But there is a need for great lucidity and awareness, also with respect to the fact that, as I said, the world around us is changing. The economy is changing substantially, which doesn't mean that, yay, you can spend money as you think best, because now the debt to the stars is worth: no, this money is precious and must be addressed in the correct way, supporting the development of the country, not with the assistantism but to have the opportunity to see our companies return to investing, to see resolved some of the important criticalities of our country and, finally, to see the support to the families, all with an attention to the environment. Good work, everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today we are discussing the National Reform Programme and I have to say that this text includes many lines and directions, but in the end, if we go to the substance, there are many fine words, but it is clear that the main guidelines for achieving it are missing. You asked us to approve the budgetary deviation: 25 billion before, 55 billion after and now the demand for another 25 billion euros. The problem is only one: how are these resources used? It also made me worry about this last speech when Senator Beginini said that politics can decide which companies will survive and which will die. I would like to say to my colleague that there are families and workers behind these companies. [[Applause]] , therefore, when we talk about the future of our companies, politics must have respect. Italy is founded on small and medium-sized enterprises and I remember that behind there are families and workers, there are people who must continue to live, not of welfare, but of work, what you are trying not to return to three hundred and sixty degrees with your continued welfare policies. We talked about tourism. I believe that Minister Franceschini has done little for tourism, which represents 13% of GDP for our nation. What were the answers we gave to the tourism sector? The vacation bonus that, as it has been structured, denotes the lack of knowledge that perhaps businesses lack liquidity. Even in recent periods the difficulty of companies has been underestimated, because on 20 July entrepreneurs were asked to pay IRPEF and IRES. This I believe is a shame for people who have to ensure not only that they can reopen safely, to ensure that tourists can visit our country, but also to be able to propose to the people who work in tourism the possibility of having work. I believe that very little has been done on this issue and that we have also been somewhat obtuse about the actions to be taken. Above all, one wanted to leave the voices crying out for help, asking for answers to the emergency. What were they asking? To dilute taxes, but it was not done; they did not want not to pay them, but at least to be delayed. There was a need to extend tax deadlines to VAT consignments, households and traders. In addition to this, we must also consider the reduction of the tax wedge for companies that call staff into service, measures on the IMU and rents to be extended to all companies. We also called for the re-introduction of vouchers, which both in the field of tourism and agriculture were the main instrument in the fight against undeclared work, and not the failed sanatories of this Government. Here, too, the Ministers really show that they do not know and do not want to listen to all the categories. Let me also highlight the lack of respect: how can a Undersecretary tell the restaurateurs to do another business? [[Applause.]] Maybe it's much better that you change your job because you don't know what it's like to work in a public exercise, where you have to get up in the morning, think about how to deal with the day, how to pay for suppliers and how to pay for workers. In addition to all this, it has shown that it has no respect because it does not know that the measures for social distancing have led to less influx of customers even at unchanged costs. As far as the management of immigration is concerned, we have closed the airports to American and Chinese tourists in order to safeguard the health of citizens. But why didn't we also worry about limiting immigration? 314 immigrants landed in Lampedusa last night. [[Applause]] We have kept our businesses closed and our citizens inside our homes putting health security at risk at this time because we cannot handle the immigration phenomenon. This is the manifest inability - let me say this - of this Government to manage a situation that is serious, not only in health but also in economic terms. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u52	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, this is the third time since the health emergency, which has become an economic emergency, broke out, that the Government has come to Parliament to ask for authorisation for a further deviation of the budget-indebtedness. On this occasion we are giving an authorisation for an additional EUR 25 billion, which is in addition to the precedents that we want to remember: the debt-disbursement of the budget requested by Parliament in March (the first EUR 20 billion), then the next EUR 55 billion at the end of April, for a total, including today's, of EUR 100 billion. Schematically, the total debt required in the three reports is about 515 billion from 2020 to 2032, while, with certainty - economic data also tell us - we find ourselves with a GDP, at this particular moment, that in 2020 will lose about 12%, for a total of 130 billion euros. So we have debt growth and a reduction in GDP: economic data that really shake the wrists; data that are really scary. Today the economy is going through a particular situation, almost war, as we have always said, which is why we must certainly respond with adequate means - very good - so also with debt. However, what I want to ask today, which is the painful note of these debt measures - and I ask the Secretary-General here - is whether the amount of debt corresponds to the quality of the debt itself and to the measures that are being taken. The answer given by Forza Italia and the other oppositions - alas - is negative, because the measures that were put in place immediately after the deviation measures were split, jagged, ineffective; they did not reach the heart of the economy nor the heart of the citizens, in the capillaries of the citizens, who did not at all warn these economic measures. Our answer is therefore negative; hence our political approach today of perplexity. Once again, what does our trust correspond to? That is why we have approached this third deviation, from a political point of view, in this way. Today we really want to be aware of this additional debt. This is our premise, what we care most about, that is the possibility that the Government today puts in place useful, indispensable, necessary measures that arrive - as I said - at the hearts of the citizens, to the Italians. This is the sense of responsibility of opposition. Politics must give answers to the citizens, to the Italians, therefore our sense of responsibility is not towards the Government, but towards the citizens and the Italians who today want these measures; they want to warn and touch with their hands the real intentions or in any case really know the resources that are being put in place. We are therefore responsible to the citizens for quick and effective solutions. I would like to quickly examine in detail what the Government's demands are today as a result of debt. Specifically, with this third deviation, the Government intends to accelerate the return to production levels, protect liquidity, support companies, bring the debt-to-GDP ratio back to the euro average. Very well, objectives that can certainly be shared, but they are the same goals that you told us months and months ago, since the first request for budgetary deviation; they are always the same. That is why today we invite attention and are no longer willing to believe promises that have remained so, mere promises. The power of fire, the power so much announced and so desired by the President of the Council itself, where has it gone? Istat and Banca d'Italia, and certainly not an opposition party like Forza Italia, tell us that with these measures there have been no results and that even 39 percent of the companies do not arrive at the end of the year because they do not have liquidity and, on the contrary, the Government makes them pay taxes at the end of July, thus certifying the bankruptcy of 40% of Italian companies. That is why we do not agree at this time: because there is this situation that certify us every day, as I said, of third-party bodies with regard to politics such as Istat and Banca d'Italia. Since the beginning of this blackout we have therefore made clear proposals, we have presented them in so many meetings and in so many meetings that have taken place between majority and opposition and between government and opposition. We have asked for clear things, which we are vindicating and asking for today too. We call for the fiscal white semester, with a delay of the deadlines until the end of the year, the cancellation of the sanctions for the non-payment of the deadlines of July, the financing of non-fund for enterprises and vouchers for seasonal work. Under these conditions today it makes sense to vote for this measure, to vote for a further budgetary deviation and we wrote it in clear letters today, the three leaders of the center-right did so in a speech reported on "Il Sole 24 Ore" this morning, in which they ask the government for these things. We therefore expect concrete answers from the Government. These are the conditions. So, debt yes, but for investment and only with measures of welfare, of current expenditure that have absolutely not yielded results. We therefore strongly re-launch our demands, we do so today in this House and we have done so also in recent weeks, thus giving the government these ideas, but above all these concrete points on which we can help our country today. Here comes out the sense of responsibility of the oppositions that is not a sense of responsibility or relief today towards the Government, but is a relief towards Italy and the Italians. It is for this reason that we do not go back on these proposals and ask for answers to the Government, because they are concrete proposals that go in the direction of the economic recovery of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u53	(at 12.30 p.m.) He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, today we are dealing with a joint debate on the report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Law No 243 of 2012 and therefore the budgetary deviation and the National Reform Programme (NRP) 2020, which this year, due to the health crisis, is presented subsequently to the Economic and Financial Document. This PNR has an extraordinary taste and importance, because it is the first step towards defining the Italian recovery plan necessary to access the huge resources that the European Union will make available to Italy in the context of the next generation EU and the multiannual financial framework 2020-2027. The resources allocated to Italy by the next generation EU amount, as is known, to 209 billion euros, 82 of which lost funds and 127 billion in the form of loans. I said that it is an extraordinary and perhaps unrepeatable phase of republican history precisely because we finally have the financial resources and the political will to decisively affect a series of evils, stunts and atavistic deficits that have always constituted a ball at the foot for the development of our country. The first part of the PNR contains the list and description of the measures that the European Union and the Italian Government have put in place to counter the pandemic, while the second part is dedicated to the possible contents of the recovery plan, which is focused on three strategic lines that, among other things, have always constituted the key programming of the Movimento 5 Stars, i.e. modernization of the country, ecological transition, social and territorial inclusion and gender equality. But what does it mean to modernise the country? If we want to create work and well-being, if we want to redistribute wealth, we have first of all the need for public administration in the service of citizens, digitised, deburred, well-organised, efficient and not a factor of delay in public and private investment. We also need citizens and businesses to operate in a context that favours research, merit and innovation and that allows us to make the best use of technologies and we need this to increase productivity, but also the quality of life of people. The ecological transition must not be an end in itself, but it must be an extraordinary opportunity, a very powerful motor of new development, attentive to the needs of the environment and in line with the new European green deal. We must invest all the resources we need to start new production chains, significantly increase the energy efficiency of our economic complex, increase the production of renewable energy, drastically reduce emissions of climate-friendly gases and improve the quality of the air and our seas With regard to social and territorial inclusion, we need to intervene on inequalities, making the country increasingly fair, fairer, more inclusive and more supportive. The aim is to combat the various poverty, both economic (and we started to do so immediately with the income of citizenship) and cultural, improving education and the transmission of knowledge, both digital and infrastructural, especially in some areas of the country, whether they are communication infrastructures, data transmission or health. On the other hand, as regards gender equality, a set of measures must be put in place that will finally enable us to overcome what is a genuine discrimination against women, which makes it difficult, sometimes impossible, for them to work, training, access to financial resources and which, too often, relegates them to domestic and care work, depriving the country of talents who, on the other hand, have every right to express themselves and from which society would only benefit. [[Applause]] These three strategic lines will be implemented through new guidelines for action, which have already been mentioned by the rapporteur: fully digital Italy, Italy with secure and efficient infrastructure, green and sustainable Italy, more competitive and resilient economic fabrics, integrated support for production chains, public administration serving citizens and businesses, increased investment in training and research, a fairer and more inclusive Italy, a more modern and efficient legal system. Coming more specifically, one of the objectives will be to simplify administrative procedures for the planning, design and authorisation of public works, with the aim of removing obstacles that have slowed down and hindered public procurement and investment, but also private ones. The simplification of procedures will have to take place without lowering the guard against corruption, of course, of the evil and the protection of environmental, cultural and landscape goods. In addition, it will be necessary to support the design capacity of administrations and local authorities, also by encouraging the entry of professional figures who are often lacking. One of the priority objectives of the recovery plan is the significant increase in public investment, which amounted to 2.1% of GDP in 2017 and which have increased in recent years to 2.3% in 2019. The goal is to achieve an increase, over four years, of at least one point compared to 2019, also exploiting the funding from next generation EU, as I said before. The increase in investment will have to cover, in particular, some strategic sectors for the country, such as the ultra-wide band, the development of the 5G network and the digitisation of the public administration. Fast access to the Internet must be ensured to all citizens, businesses and public administration, as a decisive factor in the development and competitiveness of the production and training system. This allows, where possible, remote work, decongestion of urban centres and repopulation of small centres. At the same time, investment will have to cover communications infrastructure, the high-speed rail network that needs to be extended to the whole country, as well as the regional one. All this within a national plan of the transports and the logistics, whose financial requirement piles to 65 billion euros to net of what already financed. Another strategic sector is the production of renewable energy. The aim is to close coal-fired power stations and replace them with renewable power plants. [[Call the president back.]] I do not read some parts of the written text because time is tyrant. I believe that private investment should also be massively encouraged, creating an increasingly favourable regulatory and fiscal framework. Important steps in this direction have been taken recently, for example in the I raise decree; I refer to the bonus earthquake and the ecobonus, which are going to affect a sector that has been suffering for many years, such as that of buildings. The same applies to individual savings plans (PIRs), on which we have etched, which are intended to direct private savings towards companies. Another pillar - and I have concluded - is that of tax reform. I'll mention it quickly. It will be another key pillar of the relaunch programme, because the entire current tax system is too complex, cumbersome and sometimes difficult to interpret, which involves bureaucratic burdens for citizens and businesses. Moreover, there are still situations of unequal treatment between workers who may have the same level of income and instead pay taxes that are quite different. A reform is therefore needed to make the tax system fairer, reducing the effective rates of labour income, but always based on the constitutional principle of progressiveness. Other disparities remain, however, also between the different tax systems of the European countries, some of which constitute real tax havens. Even in this field, Italy must assume this problem on its shoulders, trying to solve it or at least limit it. This government, thanks to the constant support of the 5 Star Movement, has already achieved important results on the tax system. We have finally abolished the VAT safeguard clauses; we have canceled the IRAP 2020 balance-of-payment for all companies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u55	I must invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u56	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I'm really done, ma'am. We have started a path of relief of the tax wedge for 16 million employees and we have guaranteed effective reductions in terms of IMU, TOSAP, COSAP for the businesses and operators of the sectors most affected. In conclusion, we are convinced that the recovery plan and the consequent investments of the next generation EU funds will allow our economic and social system to make that qualitative leap that has been expected for years. The 5 Star Movement will play a leading role in defining the recovery plan and will work and ensure that all the political objectives that we have set ourselves over the years and that the citizens expect are centered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u57	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce this speech by saying a simple truth: we are faced with the usual soup, a heated soup. By addressing myself with respect and with education towards my colleagues of majority, those who - I understand - must do their job and defend this Government at all costs, I say that I do not understand this exaltation in the face of a National Reform Programme that has nothing to do with reform. This is not what the League says, the opposition forces do not say, but only yesterday the Bank of Italy said, branding this PNR as vague. It's basically a copy-paste, because a series of interventions is called up but you don't get into the detail; it's a vague plan also for numbers, for resources, of which you can't have the confidence. It's a plan that has no strategy. For this reason, I would like to renew the invitation to my colleagues not to be excited, because the Bank of Italy, in its report, writes that exactly all the things we have been talking about for thirty years are being discussed in the programme. Moreover, the plan is characterised by uncertainty in the timing of the implementation of the interventions. It is therefore an abortion, because it dies in the bud, cut off in the bud. We at the League are striving, from the very beginning of this unfortunate Government, especially during the health emergency, to make proposals and to urge you to collect them. We are also trying to support the measures that are useful to the country, but you really do everything to isolate yourself, to be alone in command and not to be connected with this country. Do exactly what the country doesn't need. [[Applause.]] Do anything to exclude opposition from democratic dialectic. There is no mention in the NRP of tax reform, bureaucracy reform and justice reform, which is needed. I do not want to go back to what other colleagues have already said about the constitutional reform of the country. I have a question for the government and my colleagues in the majority: do you just want to demolish reforms that the previous government has made, thanks to the League, starting at 100? Tell the country what you intend to do compared to 100 after the deadline. As a Southman, you will allow me to say something to the South Minister. Reading the Plan, a cornerstone is also the plan for the South, but it is made of lots of chatter. Within the same is recalled - heard, heard - the income of citizenship. Minister for the South, I tell you from these benches, as mayor and as a man of the territory, that the South no longer wants the income of citizenship. [[Applause.]] The South wants fast infrastructure and stable work; it does not want welfare and precarious. Let's read some numbers of the failure of citizenship income. Again, we refer to institutional notes (the second periodic note of citizenship income). Only numbers that need not only reflect, but also shudder and accelerate towards a necessary counter-trend with respect to the income of citizenship. President, out of one million beneficiaries, of whom 876,000 are subject to the labour pact, only 43 percent (376,000) have signed the pact and only 2,603 (0.3%) have completed the internship. These are the May data. In February 2020, only 39.760 people signed an employment contract, i.e. 2% of all the audiences, 65.2 percent of which are fixed-term, 19.7 percent are permanent and 3.9 percent are apprenticeships. Long live the precarious! This is what the government wants: to keep people in need of work still today. Minister for the South, we want the new path to be the way of growth and development that can pass and start from our natural resources, which are also those of agriculture, tourism and can also be oil. We want to win the challenge of a proud South because we are proud. Carlo Levi in the 1940s wrote in the book "Christ stopped at Eboli" - I have the certainty that this Government wants Christ to be nailed there at Eboli - a bad thing, but true: For the peasants, the State is farther from heaven, and more evil, because it is always on the other side. The only possible defense, against the state and against propaganda, is resignation. Mr Undersecretary, dear Counte-bis Government, I bring you here the testimony of a South who has firmly abandoned the path of resignation and wants democratically and freely to take the path of reaction through development and growth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to frame the National Reform Programme in the wider context in which it should be included. It cannot be looked at as if it were an isolated thing, that is, as an initiative or motion proper to the Italian Government. Where does the need for a National Reform Programme come from? It was born when the European Commission published in the Official Journal what the Member States of the European Union had to do. The National Reform Programme, therefore, is not a spontaneous act, but the response to an imposition. Secondly, the National Reform Programme, in addition to being only the answer to an imposition, has the second need to be built in the hope of taking the money from European funding, namely the famous allocations that the European Union allocates to the nations. Let us remember that all these funds are intended for co-financed projects: it means that, when Italy's responsibility was 11 billion and it was able to present projects for that value, they would actually be given only 5.5 billion and the rest should itself put them; the co-financed projects work that way. The National Reform Programme therefore has this purpose and is cut accordingly. Thirdly, this time the National Reform Programme will also contain an appendix, the recovery plan - or recovery plan, for those who care so much - which in turn is built specifically to try to access the share of the famous 750 billion next generation EU (the additional funds allocated). Once again, therefore, the next generation EU funds are earmarked for that, because they are already allocated, as the European Commission Communication No 456 of 27 May 2020 has already established their allocation. Compared to the extraordinary European Council meeting on 17-21 July, allocation has not changed: 750 billion have always been distributed this way; it changes the distribution between grants (or subsidies, but I prefer the English term in this case) and loans (loans). What does that mean? The Italian recovery plan will be built to try to take the money and spend it in the sectors that we are told by someone else and not by us established. Once again, what is there of Italy in this? There's nothing left. Moreover, let's see how and what are the nation-demands that have been made to us, published on 9 July 2019 in the Official Journal of the European Union, integrated with the recommendations of the European Commission (the famous home tasks). The recommendations contained: to ensure a nominal reduction in public expenditure (the most important ones); to use extraordinary revenue to accelerate the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio; to shift the tax burden from labour to other revenue chapters, reducing tax breaks (e.g., always according to them - by changing cadastral values); to combat tax evasion (we all agree on that of course); to strengthen electronic payments and lower the cash limit; to fully implement past pension reforms and to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. These are some points that we were told. Well, what, then, does our National Reform Plan contain? It contains elements such as the structural improvement of the primary balance (of course, net of cyclical events). How do you get it? The methods are always the same: increasing the tax burden; reducing public expenditure; extraordinary revenue; privatisation; alienation of real estate; rationalization and revision of public expenditure, which is exactly one of the European Commission's demands-Country; combating tax evasion (here we always agree); revision of environmental taxes and environmentally harmful subsidies; strengthening the sustainability of the social security system. They told us to do it, and we answered. It even says that the Italian Government has undertaken a series of comparisons to assess whether the 100 quota is actually sustainable. So, Mr Pepe, in relation to your doubts as to whether he is in danger, the answer is yes, it is. Then, with regard to the sale of public buildings, regarding extraordinary revenue, Italy immediately prepared a programme through direct contributions or through different management of buildings that do not work. So, once again, we are faced with the precise execution of things imposed by others. Having said that, the second part, again in the general context of the situation, concerns the famous 750 billion plus 1,024 of the enlarged budget of the European Union: how do they arrive and how are they divided? Does Italy actually gain or lose it? At the end of the day, this is what the European Union is all about: do we earn or lose? Well, first of all, the European budget has been strengthened. We know - if we do not know it, I say it now - that every nation contributes by 1.27% of gross national income to the EU budget, which is supplemented by the taxes that the European Union makes directly. To compensate for the non-cyclical events of Brexit, the contribution has been temporarily raised to 1.4 and will be raised to 2% for the next seven years, which can be extended for another seven years. So, for seven plus seven years all, theoretically, we are called to contribute more. In the conclusions of the European Council, however, someone got the discount: Denmark will pay minus 377 million, Germany minus 3,671 million, the Netherlands minus 1,921 million, Austria minus 565 and Sweden minus 1,069. On the other hand, Italy has obtained that it will give more and, therefore, we already leave at a loss. Where's the profit? Theoretically - these are still not official data and there is no Commission communication saying so - Italy should draw 209 billion, of which about half is represented by loans and the other half by grants. Let's leave the loans aside and take care of the subsidies. The subsidies - it should be said - are our money that is given to us before and that we will eventually pay more. They are cash advances: Italy will pay more and will receive a benefit for the first three years of 0.66 percent of GDP, after which it will lose. So, in the global reckoning, they're offering us our money first and then you'll see. Be careful why that money should be taken almost immediately: 60 percent within the first three years and the rest within the fourth, otherwise nothing is done. So, we're gonna have to come up with a series of plans to try and get our co-financed money. This is the great deal that is being sold now in Italy. It's kind of like, in fact, we're making the famous transfer of the fifth salary, which means we got them to give us our money back, and in return every month we're gonna have to give something. It is not a good deal, it is not European solidarity of course, it cannot be done as such and it must also make us reflect on the negotiating capacities of our Government which comes back saying that it is a victory, but the numbers say that it is not at all so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to approve - as usual in a hurry and almost with a due act - two very important measures concerning the future of Italy and the Italians: a budgetary deviation of 25 billion for 2020 and a National Reform Programme that should mark the pace of what future policies will be for our country. As regards the deviation, the rapporteur, Mrs Faggi, has already well illustrated our vision for the future of Italy, which is quite different from the imaginary book of dreams contained in the PNR under consideration. As far as the substantial additional debt we are facing is concerned, we still have no idea how the money will actually be spent, but it will be of fundamental importance to make good use of these resources. We've read a lot about PNR. It is a full-bodied document, so my personal impression was immediately that of so many words. In the hearings that have been held in the last two days, I found that the auditors - for example Banca d'Italia and Corte dei Conti - found out what was my impression: the list of measures is long and the details provided do not allow the formulation of a completed judgment. This is the Bank of Italy. Well, let me tell you that I'm very worried, because I don't see a way out. And I am all the more concerned because my concerns are today supported by memories released by those who make calculations, analyses and by those who support our parliamentary work with their precious works. You don't have to listen to me: just listen to them and not your useless task forces. The alarm cry says to act quickly, with concreteness and efficiency. We must not lose this game: we have the future of the country in hand, we are heavily indebted to future generations. Unfortunately the important interventions, those from 20 billion in debt with the so-called care Italy, the 55 billion in debt with the so-called decree relaunch, the so-called decree liquidity in debt for companies and VAT matches - let's not forget - did not have the characteristics and the essential qualities required. There has been no concreteness, interventions detached from the base and from the reality that have led to inevitable delays and consequent serious inefficiencies. These are the problems of the government and of all the bureaucratic apparatus that you have no intention of simplifying. There is no speed, there is no concreteness and therefore no efficiency, because the measures do not reach the base, they do not reach the citizens and, therefore, do not have the desired effects. The measures are so machinous and brainy that those in real difficulty cannot access them. We filled ourselves with tax credits and then it wasn't easier to lower taxes? The 110% bonus has caused unprecedented confusion, creating dangerous expectations and what do you do? Extend a shameful state of emergency, which still provides for the smart working of civil servants. This is a country in plaster, with closed offices, to which you must ask an appointment. But where do you think citizens and professionals can practice? Companies and VAT matches to share also need efficient support from the public administration. An example: in Turin to take away four rubble, an entrepreneur took ten days, and perhaps has not yet finished and has not yet arrived at the end of the iter, when it once took one day. And we want to improve our country in an energy key? There is a very clear contradiction. As for the holiday bonus, it is cumbersome, unattainable by those who are really in difficulty, impossible for tourism operators who should take charge of the tax credit. So you have to have your feet on the ground. Do you know, for example, that the installment of income taxes, as well as local taxes, is granted by the State at the rate of 4% usury? We have a Usury State with its citizens. Go see what happens at the end of the tax return. At the risk of appearing to be the broken record of all time, do you also know that many categories are still waiting for the integration fund? We know that, and you should know that, too. Under these conditions, how can we look forward to further debt if up to now 75 billion have been committed badly? Not to mention - and then to conclude after this last remark - the very serious announcement by Mr Bagnai, following the statements made yesterday by Minister Gualtieri at the hearing: we have been confirmed that not only the fantasies of Europe are in various forms to be returned - as was already foreseen - but the credits of the measures provided for in the recovery fund will be privileged, to the detriment therefore of the value of our state bonds. It is indeed time for the government to give a key turn in terms of greater efficiency or our country is going in the wrong direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u62	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, popular wisdom teaches that the well-beginning is in the middle of the work and the history of reforms in our country has almost always begun this way. The trouble is that, as it began, so it ended, with an unfinished perennial. And that task carried out only in half has not even been handed down over time, so much so that on the most important games - I think, for example, of the deburocratization of our country system - the government and the parliament on duty have found each time to make the classic tour of the goose. It is up to us today to move forward with the best intentions and an enviable program. There is no doubt, in fact, that the National Programme of Reform of the Government explicit a genuine awareness of what our country needs and there is no doubt that it defines an ambitious path aimed at relaunching. To return to popular wisdom, however, the 2020 Reform Programme, in its overall vision and objective completeness, is certainly a good way to begin, but it does not protect us from the risk of stopping us, like so many of our predecessors, in the middle of the work. There are two risk variables on which I want to focus the attention of my colleagues and colleagues: the time schedule of the interventions - we have to say and tell us when they are realized and in how long - and the quality of the choices, which must be as brave as ever, if we want to avoid - as has often happened in the past - leaving behind short-term and short-term changes. The first choice of courage concerns - in my opinion - labour policies, and more specifically their correct interpretation within the Reform Programme. On paper they may seem only a section among the many of the strategic plan, but in fact they must represent its fulcrum. The theme of work must be seen as the lowest common denominator of all areas of action examined by the National Reform Programme: simplification; unblocking of public works; strengthening of infrastructure networks; strategy for technological innovation; improvement in the administration of justice and public health; enhancement of cultural and environmental heritage, but also action plans for a new social building. In all these actions and in every other that we are preparing to undertake the work it is the element of maximum transversality and it is the one that leads to synthesis. Therefore, work is the element to be covered when we reason for time schedule and priorities. Therefore, if we want to pursue the objective of putting work at the heart of the Reform Programme, it is good that we say clear words on how to renew the relationship between the State and the entrepreneurial fabric, imprinting it on a mutual trust between State and enterprise, because it is from the enterprise that the work comes and not from other parts: only and exclusively from the enterprise. If we want to put work at the centre, it is good that we have clear words about when and how we are going to deal with the issue of fair pay. And it is good that we make the commitment to allocate, in a transparent and traceable way, the resources coming from the fight against tax evasion to lower the cost of labour. The resources obtained from the fight against tax evasion must be re-ranised into the portfolios of taxpayers, i.e. the worker and the company, at least in percentages to be agreed and quantified, if we do not want to return 100%. If we are to put work at the centre, we must act immediately on the disproportion between the resources allocated to active policies and those devoted to welfare measures. It is not possible that, out of 31 billion allocated in 2020, more than 30 will become shock absorbers and subsidies, which will be provided, among other things, through institutions that overlap with each other and through cumbersome procedures that penalise both workers and companies. And in the Reform Plan fortunately and dutyfully this is written and there is a trace of it. To create employment or to make it more competitive will remain crumbs, while the income of citizenship is showing its limits and is betraying the expectations of ransom that it carried with it. We do not ask to eliminate the income of citizenship, because it is a fair question. But to this right question - from my point of view - we have given the wrong answer; the income of citizenship must be revised. Finally, work will have to be the alpha and omega of future spending from European appropriations (the recovery fund and the ESM), because those coming from Europe are extraordinary figures, which will have an extraordinary fallback in the system only if we can make the most of them. These are extraordinary figures and, for this reason, they have conditions - there is nothing else - like when you go to ask for a mortgage. Those who think they can do less than 37 billion in the ESM, because of the conditions imposed, must not even start on the road to reform. It must have the intellectual honesty to let it go, recognizing that it lacks the overall vision and that it is objectively incapable of seeing the interdependence between the various sectors of intervention, unable to see the primacy of work in the number of expectations of growth. Times are certain and unprecedented courage: I do not expect colleagues or colleagues from the minority to ask the Premier or the Ministers. I want to take responsibility for this personally, and as I hope the rest of the majority will also do, recognizing that I do not have to be stuttering in the intercourse with the Government, because that is how Parliament is guaranteed to be central. Moreover, the objective of the reforms is the patrimony of all political forces, despite the difference in approach. It is a matter of giving life to the socio-economic fabric, to make it increasingly competitive and resilient, with total respect for the natural environment that hosts it and equally in the human respect of the community that animates it. It is a challenge that I have decided to accept with courage. I don't want to settle for anything less. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u65	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 75 billion debt already authorized is added to the 25 that we should approve today. But it's only 32, according to what I read in the report. The public debt is at 2,500 billion, because it already contains some of the 75; but, before arriving at the end of the year, with the other part of the 75, with the 25 and with other billion still (the 25 will not suffice), we will be abundantly to 2,600 billion of debt, with a deficit-GDP ratio of 11,9 or 12 - good times, when we got to 2,4, instead of 2,2 - and with a debt-GDP ratio of 157,6. But GDP is 1,600 billion, while before it sailed about 1,800 or 1,850. From an economic point of view, it is not only the fault of this Government and the majority: it is their official failure. If it were a private company, it would have failed for a few decades. Good times even when, until 2019, there was a primary surplus that unfortunately was not enough to pay interest. The primary surplus was about 30 billion, but then the interest, which amounted to 60-65 billion, canceled it and caused us to be in deficit of 35-40 billion, depending on the maneuvers, which were to be added to the public debt. Now you say the recovery fund will bring 200 billion. This morning, a statement was made by the President of the Bundesbank, who said something different. It seems to me that the amounts that have been announced are not certain, because they depend on the number of countries that will apply for them. Even the dates are not certain (they will be paid to tranches) and however there are conditions. Put it in your head: nothing is free, everything is based on the future annual contributions of individual countries. It is clear that the virtuous countries do not want to pay for us in the future. Do you think that the MES - 36 billion, which must still be returned - can be used for current spending? I have some doubts. Then there would be the funds that we should allocate to participate in EIB and Sure funding, as well as the ordinary contribution that we make to Europe of 17 billion, the current part, cash, and perhaps something more for this year, because the United Kingdom has come out of Europe. In future, however, we need the ability to repay: ordinary management will have to save the installments that allow us to pay and meet the deadlines. Now you can - I hope you will - hope for inflation that goes just above the physiological 2% - although it is no longer 2% today, in a period of deflation - an inflation that goes at least to 2-3 percent, so that the debt can be reduced. If it were possible, under the Senate Rules, I would like to have a debate. I always have the Deputy Minister ahead and I like his personal attention and sympathy, which I change, but tell me that these figures are wrong, that the amounts that I tried to say as a provincial accountant are wrong. We need to change our strategy - I have already said this on another occasion. What you're doing didn't turn the economy on, it didn't start it: everyone says it, the data says it. The economy, in its virtuous circle, where everyone works, brings contributions, brings taxes and payments to the Erario, in order to operate the system of competence and cash and to provide to repay, but above all to finance the ordinary activity (pensions) and extraordinary (investments of the State). One fine day Count says to decrease VAT and Gualtieri, within two hours, says that Count was wrong and that you cannot decrease VAT. We certainly sterilized the safeguard clauses, which were a legacy, a very serious mistake of the past. We have the Director-General of the Revenue Agency who says you pay your taxes as soon as you cash the invoice. But where do we live? How do you make the profit? There are financial charges, depreciation and everything that can happen in a company. This is science fiction. Ruffini also says that millions of accounts will be sent: please keep them in the drawers. Ruffini speaks, again, of a condon of 400 billion: it does not exist. We have already said this in the debate in the Finance Committee: these are data put there, which refer to taxes of the past in the hands of companies that have failed for decades. I listened to the speeches and heard a few more minutes ago about the fight against evasion. I don't know what escape we're talking about: if anything, we're on subsistence or big groups' escape, and do it. Everyone says that there will be companies in crisis and there will be unemployment this summer: it is safe. Everyone says that, unfortunately, and I wish it weren't true. So, what do we do? Do we keep 300 tables open that's going to be 600 in a while? Companies, even in healthy territories, have problems. I think that investment - if anything the simplification decree will serve - must start this afternoon; I must see the ruspes. I believe that residues in institutions' budgets, to fall all public bodies, must be spent, otherwise they must be withdrawn. And, since we are in a kind of war - I'm sorry, it's a different form, but it's war - you have to tell companies, those who work and those who still have good will to wake up early in the morning and finish late in the evening: Do as you can, we don't control you, we don't log in for a number of months. Let's stop thinking that all those who work are criminals: Do as you can, work because the money you pay them, you spin them by spending it. This is a normal maxim of the economy: let it develop on its own, because it has in itself the will, the capacity, the human and psychological resources to develop. But do not take away the spring that triggers this: pay yes taxes, but earn legitimately. Help tourism, especially from abroad. Unfortunately, what we decided yesterday - I don't know if it was right or wrong - doesn't help to get tourists from abroad. Tell companies to return to produce in Italy; absolute tax breaks are needed. Be like Trump, even if you don't like him very much. No to crazy expenses. This year there will be a few billion left for immigration - we will talk about it tomorrow - and for subsidies to the non-attendant. You cannot think that smart working or gender equality will solve the problem. Since this will not happen and I am sorry - perhaps we will debate it again - I am very concerned as a citizen and as a representative of the electorate of workers who, every day, at times of meeting, make me aware of their difficulties. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u66	Mr President, for many years we have been talking about reforms and the need for the state to be reformed, but real reforms have not really been seen. That our state needs reform is a necessity that has been avoided in recent months, given what has happened in the course of the serious epidemiological crisis. The problem is that an institutional and constitutional tightening has been created - as we have seen - in which there have been problems with who should do what. I am talking in particular about the relationship between the State and the Regions. One of the great institutional reforms - not just constitutional but institutional - is in fact the revision of the relationship between the State and the Regions: it is in this sense that the so-called differentiated regionalism operates. On the other hand, it is regrettable that in the National Reform Programme we are debating this issue is being dealt with in very few words; on the contrary, I would say that it is being cleared. At a time when it is expressly said 'with regard to differentiated autonomy', the Government, implicitly confirming the intention to continue', there is already a problem. There needs to be an explicit commitment to continue this type of reform. That there is no commitment perhaps it was already understood by the last proposal of the so-called framework law of Minister Boccia, which dates back to November last year: a rule that has never been included in the budget law and is probably languishing in some corridor of the Ministry. I have a parenthesis: however, in that framework law we are not talking about conferring powers for the purpose of granting autonomy; that is quite the opposite. But there is no trace of this. On page 62 of the National Reform Programme, it is said that it will work on the preliminary definition of the essential levels of performance. Correct, but this is not really autonomy; it is a condition, a presupposition, a connected, a necessity, but it is not the granting of autonomy. Once we have done this, we will have to discuss everything else, but we are not. The work which had been stopped since the end of July of last year has no trace of it anymore: I am referring to a discussion on what may possibly be the subjects for the allocation of additional particular forms of autonomy. We are not talking about a crucial issue, which is the mechanism for financing autonomy, that is, with certain competences what kind of resources can be allocated and how. These are all key issues that are not really being discussed. It is clear that differentiated regionalism is not a priority of this Government. It is certainly a difficult and complicated subject, but we need courage to tackle complicated and complex reforms and issues. That there is a need for reform of the state, we have understood this: it has been discussed for years. But even if we did not want to talk about institutional reforms, today there is a strong expectation of the Regions. They are those regions that have required autonomy and additional competences, and not on the basis of a regulation of condominium, but on the basis of a rule of the Constitution. And, until proven otherwise, if there is no clear right, surely there is an expectation. And to think that differentiated regionalism is a very valid solution also to respond to a varied Italian territory, because the true beauty of Italy is precisely the specialty of the Regions, their differences. The real Made in Italy is made in Tuscany, made in Umbria, made in Sicily: this is the true beauty of Italy. What are the capacities of regionalism? Certainly that of overcoming duplications, overlaps that create confusion also in the concurrent legislation. It is a mechanism to enhance the territorial characteristics and local excellence, but above all it is the attribution of a responsibility of local policy, of the politics of the regions that, when they have the honour of having certain competences, will also have the burden of performing them well and of responding to citizens. And let us not say, then, that, given the time we are living, there have been difficulties. Certainly, however, I recall the words of not a legist, but of the President of an important South Region who said quite simply that in this moment of crisis, without the Regions, Italy would sink. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u67	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u68	Mr President, many important measures for education, university and research and for high artistic and musical training are announced in the National Reform Programme 2020. Outside of emergency legislation, the school, today more than ever, needs system interventions that solve the many problems, obvious and hidden, that have been generated by twenty years of incorrect legislative interventions. Sooner or later the knots come to the comb, and what any teacher had already predicted, at the dawn of the bad solutions found in the last twenty years for the school, is today detected by data that put Italy below the European average for basic learning, especially the scientific-mathematical area, for the school dispersion, for the inclusion of foreigners and for the digital divide. Europe for the 2030 Agenda therefore recommends that we take action on the quality and sustainable adaptation of teaching to the potential of inclusive technology. The latest reforms have certainly increased students' learning deficits due to the hemorrhaging of curricular teaching hours through school-work alternation and the design schizophrenia of school autonomy. The PNR provides the basis for remedying these gaps through a number of measures. As far as digital teaching is concerned, it is planned to set up a fund for technological endowments and connectivity in favour of low-income students. In addition, other funds are planned for school building interventions to improve learning environments and equip all schools with fibre optic connection. Beyond the uncertain results of distance learning, experimented in the emergency phase, the objective of experimenting with the potential of technology on a dedicated ministerial platform, to develop strategies to contrast school leaving or to enhance excellence by ensuring greater connectivity and constant support of technical personnel, starting from the schools of the first cycle. The inconveniences faced for the learning environments as a result of the Covid emergency then pose the need to release urgently the funds for the children's poles, providing the necessary technical support to the municipalities. These new facilities can become an opportunity to expand the free state offer for our children with the establishment of new sections to be put under the direction of the inclusive institutions. There is so much competent and selected staff in the exhaustion rankings that waits to be hired and so many families that do not find room for their children in the existing public structures. Improving and broadening the state offer in children means ensuring quality of the educational offer, transparency and participation of families through the collegial bodies in the educational project of their children. Important and appreciable is the Government's commitment to improving the knowledge of foreign languages since childhood school. In order to combat school dispersal, equal measures are provided for areas with social exclusion, the increase of legal posts on support and the reduction of the number of students per class, all interventions that, if available already this year, would have given us better ground in the reopening of schools. Finally, the measures for teacher training and salary are not marginal, not least through career prospects that can enhance their merit and professional commitment. The teaching class has been neglected in recent years by the legislator in all respects, from the economic to the professional recognition. Law 107 of 2015 significantly reduced the quality of teaching, already diminished by the teaching of skills so dear to the market economy. Today, Europe itself is aware of the need to reverse its course in relation to a training proposal that is likely to create generations of disoriented cars that can be easily influenced. For us, it was essential that Minister Azzolina and the entire Government maintain the objective of reopening in September, but also on the university and public research bodies there are considerable measures to increase the number of graduates through the strengthening of measures in favour of the right to study. In fact, the number of graduates is now lower in Italy than in most OECD countries. Measures are planned to increase interaction with the world of work, coordinate research activities also through the National Research Agency, increasing funding in the sector to enhance ITS pathways in professional technical poles and in the annual higher technical education and training pathways (IFTS). It seems fundamental, with a view to valorising the cultural activities of our country, the understanding of the Government to preserve, enhance and enhance the high artistic, musical and choreutica formation, a great resource appreciated all over the world that urgently needs a reorder and path of meritorious recruitment. With a view to internationalisation and exchange between States and European school attendance as a Committee on Culture, we have also asked the Government to take measures to simplify the procedures for declaring the equivalence of qualifications within the European Union. Thanks to the availability of the Government, this year there have been investments in the Italian school of six billion euros and in the university and in the research of more than two billion. This inversion of qualifying course will be the flywheel of recovery, because there can be development without investment in human capital and our young people are the winning resource to focus on a sustainable, free and dignified future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u70	Mr President, representative of the Government, I have to say, first of all, that if we come back here today to ask for more money and arrive in July, this makes us very angry, because I remember that initially, when we addressed the issue of the resources needed to deal with the post-Covid crisis, the economic crisis that we are living today, more or less in mid-April, there was a speech in this same Chamber by Professor Bagnai, who uttered the phrase already said some time ago by Mario Monti: "Whatever it takes". You were invited to ask us all the permissions you wanted at once, everything you needed to put the country in a position to have confidence in the future, because at that moment - we are talking about April - asked the country to stop, but the next day the country had to have the certainty that the government would do assistance activities, but also activities to revive to allow our economy to recover. You laughed at us, you mocked us, you also denigrated us to the Italians for months, making us believe that there was no cooperation from the opposition. I still remember those same words today: "Whatever it takes." Minister: We told you to ask us all the permissions, everything you needed, there was no opposition, no majority, the country needed and we were there. Well, you mocked us, and you first asked for a few billions, then you went to 20, then 55, now another 20, then there was the whole melina on the recovery fund, the whole issue about the ESM. February, March, April, May, June, July. If all goes well, we also know that the funds of the recovery fund will arrive, perhaps, in 2021, with conditions that we will then understand how difficult they will be, to justify this long wait. What do they say? That the action you are taking is not aimed, unfortunately. Here I reply to my colleague Mr Pinotti, who in yesterday's speech here in the Chamber wondered who might think that the Government is not working in the interest of the country: well, whoever is looking at what you are doing today, because it is clear that you, today, are not working in the interest of the country, but you are working simply to ensure that the Government can survive, regardless of the economic choices and decisions that must be made. [[Applause]] If you have arrived from Europe for resources and overflow, paradoxically, for this you must thank the presence in Italy, in the Italian Parliament, of Matteo Salvini, because the terror that there may be a Government led by Salvini, and not a Government led by the Democratic Party with the Movimento 5 Stars brought on a leash, causes the European Union to release any fund that Italy asks the European authorities. This, however, is not to guarantee the country a government action that can make us recover and grow after the economic crisis. This is political survival, yours. So, Mr President, allow us to be very concerned, partly because it is objective that our country has struggled over the last few decades to spend the resources of the European Union. We know that on the three-year plans Italy always arrives late, even reaching to have, in the period 2014-2020, a capacity for employment and spending of 17 billion euros, out of the 75 available. It is very difficult to think that, if you do not change the rules that are, or rather that should be the basis of government efficiency, you may be able to spend the mountain of money, of which you now give the availability, in a period of even two years. It is then clear that at this moment you are trying to take advantage of the Covid-19 situation, unfortunately, in order to free yourself from the political constraints that, otherwise, you should respect towards the Italian citizens. Italian citizens who cannot vote and who are not even in the possibility to complain, because, when there are requests for spaces and authorizations, as they have done in recent days, in order to be able to manifest the discomfort of their category, they are prevented from manifesting. The request for an extension of the emergency state of yesterday, unity to this availability of resources, allows you to do what - I will be censored, but I must say - are the classic marchettes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u71	Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u72	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Censorship? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, it's not like we try again to find a way to say it. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, there is no problem. So much, in the end, that I say it in one way or say it in another, the Italians have understood what we are talking about. Whether it's citizenship income or bonuses, it's real.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u73	Senator Candiani, then I'm gonna get you the minutes, so I definitely don't steal your time. It's just here, though, we practice. In the heat of the oratory, certain expressions are allowed, but I am convinced that you know many other words that can render the concept. Using vulgar terms, disrespecting the House and vulgarizing the place and institutions. So, my call is not formal or ritual. It is not even a game between the presiding and the intervening who enjoy repeating the term. Anyway, Senator Candiani, you know my esteem for you. So, of course, continue in your speech. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I assure you that I will no longer say in this House that the government is doing trade marks, absolutely. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good. Then, as far as I am concerned, from now on there will, of course, be formal references to anyone who says words that are not appropriate to the dignity of this House. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when we have to tell the truth, I do not even care about formal references. However, have no doubt, because the Italians have understood. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know very well that's not the problem. Go on with the matter, please. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, your defense of the Government certainly honors the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm defending the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u74	Having said that, there is no doubt that what you are doing today does not give us prospects for development in the future, because you are intervening only with demands for spending, but not changing the rules that are the basis of the efficiency capacity of public spending. This is a country that does not need assistance. The assistance is done at the time of the emergency, even if you said it will last until 31 December. The emergency must be overcome with development, growth and relaunch and that 55 billion euro recovery plan, which you had to bring us in April, you brought it to this House in July. Then it is clear that what you are doing concerns us very much, because today you are not able to overcome those system difficulties that for years put Italy at the bottom of the list of countries that have economic development in Europe. We need to look at the contradictions, which, among other things, lie in the programme. Mr President, there is a dream book in here that we would all like to see realized. But it is undeniable and undeniable that, if the rules that are at the base, that are those of the bureaucratic management of the country, those on which the country is organized, those of the justice, those of the bureaucracy or that are those of the economy or of the development, are not changed, the effects can only be the same as before, therefore frustrating. In the next few days we will face the so-called simplification plan. If the setting - and we've already seen it - is what is written here, it's just the assembly of scraps of spending review not implemented in the past years. I remember that PD has been in the government continuously since 2010, except for a year and a few months of our government with the 5 Stars: you are always the same, you didn't do it then and you don't do it today. I do not understand on the basis of what conditions we should foresee otherwise. In here there are demands and predictions that are in contradiction with your own government. I read explicitly and precisely that in here you intend to push on high speed: well come. For the railway infrastructure a progressive extension of the system will be aimed at, according to logics of integration with the existing network. It will be expanded by means of careful use of conventional sections and, where necessary, by the ex-novo creation of high-speed variants and supplementary sections. Great, that's what we want to hear and that's what we want to see realized, not only for Turin-Lion, but to get to Trapani. The whole country needs to develop. But if you do not explain these things and explain how you intend to support them politically, this is all a dream book, put here to justify in the European Union that you want to make reforms, but on which there are no political presuppositions of the majority of government to achieve them. The concern then is even greater, because the resources that are available today will no longer be there tomorrow, but will remain the loop tied to the neck of the Italians for the need to return resources that are loaned; and even if they are not loaned, in some parts, but are so-called lost, they must be repaid with the funds paid annually by Italy to the European Union. What do we ask? We demand respect and consideration for our proposals and collaboration. We expect system actions to be taken into consideration: the tax system itself must be revised; the mechanism that we had prepared, that of flat tax, allows the country to be competitive; the reduction of the tax wedge and the ability of the country to develop with infrastructure, as we have just mentioned. I would like to add a comparison and a consideration of development in the European Union at the same time. What you call the green new deal, the new ecological agreement, in Germany means decarbonisation; it means billions of euro investments from which Germany will take advantage of competitiveness on the cost of energy for its business. At the same time, we have invested and continue to invest today on alternative and ecological pseudo-sources, having made it very clear that we could not benefit from the resources made available by the European Union. Mr President, I would suggest one very simple thing to the Government: less non-refundable and parcelled contributions and more overall vision. Put your hands back to the organizations of our country and to our bureaucratic structure, which is what stifles investment, otherwise there will be no development plan and there will be no resource available that can raise Italy and with this you put a noose around the neck of the future generation, without allowing them to have the freedom of work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u75	Senator Candiani, by virtue of my interruption, has benefited from further time. Of course, you are not invited to imitate him.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u76	I communicate that, also in relation to recent changes in the composition of the Groups, the Leaders are invited to send the definitive nominations in the Permanent Commissions by 16 o'clock today, in view of the call for renewal, pursuant to article 21, paragraph 7 of the Rules, at the conclusion of today's session of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u78	Mr President, what a deviation it is, if the subject is to operate the lever of the deficit rather than to feed Italy and the Italians to very dangerous financial mechanisms, of which we know, cammin doing, some alarming characteristics, such as what we discovered yesterday about the part for which we are going to finance on the markets of recovery and of which we have understood that it generates, in the hands of creditors, a senior credit. Perhaps it would have been better to say it clearly and immediately, so as to inform also that part of the majority that had made controversy over this feature about the ESM. I do not understand why, similarly, I do not do it on the part of the recovery affected just by the characteristic of generating a senior credit. But if that's the alternative, let's do the part where we do the leverage deficit. I have no problem, if I'm cold, lighting a fire and, if I'm hungry, I have no problem lighting the fire to cook and then eat. I have problems, however, if the fire comes into the hands of arsonists because, at that point, the fire, which is functional to survival, to warm me and eat, becomes a dangerous object and it is always the same fire. If I say that there is no problem in saying yes to the budgetary deviation, I would ask you, however, to pay attention to how you speak. Vice-Ministers Misiani and Castelli, when you provoke an already stressed country, categories already stressed like VAT matches and restaurateurs, we are careful. I'm saying this for everyone. We are careful because we are at a stage where it is not the fault of the poor restaurateurs or of their lack of ability to do their job: if people no longer go to the office to work, the covers of the noon jump because they were, for the most part, the fruit of conventions. If you have to work in smart working, it is clear that the plan of the covers jumps and, for most, those restaurateurs and pizza makers risk going into trouble with the banking world. If you go into trouble with the banking world, you risk no longer honoring the loans and no longer paying the installments of the debts and, therefore, risk having to be reported to the various central risks. So, you may have the best business idea in the world, but no bank is going to fund you because you're now reported to the risk centre. It is very simple and it is not the fault of the restaurateurs, but of a fact that has been treated in a certain way and that, therefore, has led to an increase of the work in smart working mode. When it comes to deviation, I want to understand what is the fallback on the ground what is the landing, because if the landing, again, is long, we are not there. Today we have to deal with a country that needs liquidity now. I repeat: if that real economy today does not have the opportunity to have immediate contributions and immediate oxygen, it will be all a problem that will arise in your face from here at the end of the year, because all this suffering will fall on the banking world. Then there will be new non-performing loan (NPL), new suffering and on your dashboard you will have to deal with a red spy, which is that of banks. In fact, at the end of the year they will tell you: we have a mountain of suffering that we do not know how to dispose of; we also skip. The money from Europe and the Government will then be made available to the banks. Since, however, the blanket is short, you will have to decide: either you will save the banking world once again or you will save, as I hope, the world also for the real economy, which is what will produce stress and risks producing that social tension that rightly concerns the Minister of the Interior. Now it's about money. Speaking of the money that had to be paid and that was not paid, a few days ago I was in Veneto. I represent to you the situation of the savers who were received by the then President of the Council of the first government of this legislature that self-defyed attorney of the people and that to these savers promised a refreshment of a betrayed saving. That money never came. It didn't come a penny. If I have to go into suffering, I don't have the money that comes from government policies and, in addition, I can't even draw from my private savings, then Veneto skips; not only Veneto skips, however, attention: if you skip an important Region, you risk to jam and skip a piece of the entire real economy of this country. Not to mention the debts of the public administration, which remain there. I add a further element of assessment, which applies to the recovery fund, but it can also apply to the money made available immediately with the deviation. Let's take the famous case of the bench chairs, which I don't know how to define: do you know that you are practically helping non-Italian producers? The bulk of those benches will most likely be bought not by Italian producers, so, with just as much probability, you are helping the Chinese model and economy: they will be almost all import counters, because you have not even talked with the furniture industry nor with Federlegno, who should be the first actors to be involved. They were not involved and most likely the money stimulated by the Italian economy for those new banks will end up in foreign producers. The same could happen with the recovery fund, with which we could make an investment on solar panels: we cover all public offices and schools with solar panels? Great. Too bad we're going to buy solar panels in China. And so, through the money from the recovery fund, once again, we go to facilitate not the Italian economy, but another economy. Since we are in emergency, that the emergency is on everything: you have to force to buy Italian, this is - or would be - already a moment to start again. [[Applause.]] Is it possible that the banks will pick them up from others and our producers will be more and more suffering with the banking world? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you one thing, since we are between the deviation and simplification: the sector of adhesive protective films, which has an export of 80%, is stranded because of the lack of a rule that makes it clear to whom - that is to say to which consortium - the material to be disposed of should be delivered. These poor wretches in the industry have so far paid Polieco. Listen to me, Mr. Deputy Minister. They've been paying Polieco since 1993. At one point, in 2007-2008, Conai also wakes up, the other consortium, telling them that they have to pay him everything, in addition with blackberries. Colleagues, do you know that a small industrial district that was active was blowing up and wasn't asking you anything? Will you consider this, please, and resolve it now? It is already in the hands of the judiciary: if this were to err the sentence, the sector would jump into the air, not because it was suffering, but because, once again, a clear and precise idea of the legislator or an address of the Government is missing. Be careful to blow up even districts that are not in pain: I ask you with my heart in hand; at least this thing, please, do it, otherwise we will no longer know where to go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u80	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the representative of the Government, Mr Misiani, and also those who have rightly taken today's session in the Senate seriously, on an issue that can be read appropriately or on the contrary. I want to contribute to the appropriate reading: I would read the PNR, the National Reform Programme, as a national resource plan. Since everyone in this House has been very quoted in recent hours, I would like to remind you of the first Cassese, which we have all perhaps read or studied, when he taught us that, alongside financial and economic resources, there are some that are more valuable, that are the resources that are regulatory, administrative and technological. With the PNR we write a clear and plural page of normative, administrative and technological resources. These give rise to what are called, then, organizational resources, which ensure that the dictates of the norm do not remain the promise of the angels. The economic and financial resources have been earned with a tug of rope inside and outside Italy; those that are inside, are the willingness to borrow us to make investments. Do you remember the words "good debit" of some essays of the Italian economy? Well, on debt we must have the maturity to produce good debt, i.e. investment, that is, thought of the future. Then there are the resources gained with the tug-of-war in the European Parliament, of which we have already said, you have already said and we have listened. The pillars of the PNR are three and must guarantee resilience, that is the ability to resist and become more functional, more competitive by the country system even in the face of difficulties that must not take us by surprise. The second pillar concerns business life. It must be easy, in Italy, to make productive efforts; the relationship with tax must be easy and we are working on it; the relationship with innovation must be easy, because without innovation there is no enterprise in the future; the relationship with creation must also be easy because sustainable enterprise is the one that lasts and wins. Then there is the theme of the third pillar, which concerns human capital: the one who studies, the one who cares, the one who realizes a project of life, the one who also connects with his environment and his habitat, the one who asks himself the question of health. On all this we decline and report financial and economic coverage. The specific that I would like to add to the useful debate that we have produced, more or less, is that we have to worry, as it is written here, also about public administration, not imagining that there is only a linear thought to produce. We also have to ask a few questions: how do we get public administration to produce results? Meanwhile, my colleague Misiani, Deputy Minister Misiani (partner as a Member of Parliament, Deputy Minister as a trustee of this Government in this very difficult time), we must restore the consistency and quality of the competences of the public administration. There is no call for 500,000 human resources to be put into operation, and this would have been said in the 20th century. Donat-Cattin said: be careful, we make quality contracts also in the public administration. It is not possible that the payment of an official of the public administration cannot cover not even the danger of his decision but the up-to-date effort, formed by updating his decision. A clear word is written about this. Access to public administration must be easy. Thank God the tax agencies have a renewed way of hiring staff in time and then checking their stabilisation. Even the Italian tax agency that is called the Customs Agency is also doing interviews using digital and I know that the State Property Agency will also do it: an innovative way. Again, let us ensure that the administrative procedure is shortened to those of Law No 241 of 1990. Thirty days, thirty years ago, were a reasonable time but thirty days to instruct and decide, after thirty years, are an excessive time. It's written here. What does the PNR have to put on the table? A clarity of approach, which then becomes executive, for example, using the digital structure. There is a need for a digitisation plan that allows the relationship with businesses, the product health, the training and educational activity and also a monitored management of the life of the infrastructure. I give you information that is inside the heritage of my previous work: Italian galleries are at risk. Here one writes a clear word, financing about the need for maintenance of the galleries and with the decree-law Genoa an article has been written that makes obligatory a register of all the complex works of the Italian infrastructures. With the measure to our examination, however, they give themselves the resources to organize a great maintenance season. We must recognize the gravity of the moment we have experienced, its extraordinaryness and give rise to an appropriate course that is not excessive and disproportionate. Our assessment must be proportionate in order to make sure that with the effort of all, everything we have contemplated as a plan, as a realization will, becomes a fact, also in order to regain the relationship of trust with the users that is the citizen. I conclude with a note, since I am dealing with tax issues and tax policies: can we set on an agenda that in Italy we will also begin to write normative words about tax rewards? We are helping all those who do not make it, it is necessary in times of difficulty. Those who succeed, those who fulfil the tax obligation of Article 53 of the Constitutional Charter, are imaginable that they are recognized as owners of a virtuosity, giving rise to the inveramento of that article 71- bis of the so-called care Italy where we talk about a blue bubble, to be filled with content? Still: there are tax credits in every part of Italy, in every part of Italy. That tax credit must become, for example, a currency that feeds pagoPA, in such a way that it does not take thirty-nine months and a colloquial phone call to demobilise that tax credit born in the contractistic city-tax reality of Italy. There is something to be innovated, there is something to be achieved, there is something to be done about the new economy. This and this is the response to the crisis. For these reasons, I would like to say that the National Reform Programme needs to be studied and put into practice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u81	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u82	Mr President, Members of the Government, I would like to begin my speech this morning - unfortunately there was no authoritative Undersecretary Malpezzi - by quoting Senator Zanda, equally authoritative member of the Democratic Party, who made the first speech in this morning's debate. There is a passage that struck me deeply that I think, with all the respect of my fellow Members who have preceded me, better tell everyone about the absence of a strategy that he has defined as follows: "Mr President-in-Office of the Council, show that you are able to make a political synthesis." Perhaps it was the hardest intervention in this debate on the deviation. What is political synthesis? Why does Senator Zanda ask for a political synthesis from the Head of this Government? The political synthesis means above all a capacity for inclusion by this Government not of oppositions, an end in itself, but a capacity for inclusion of that part of the country that is not represented by those who are governing it. This choral effort, which is claimed with an appeal by an authoritative exponent such as Senator Zanda, cannot and must not fall into the void. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: We then had the opportunity, perhaps, to vote against the decrees-laws of the Government itself, such as the Italian cure. However, I cannot fail to express my perplexity today, and you must not force me not to vote on the budget deviation of EUR 25 and billion goes by, which is going to in debt future generations. I do not go into the matter, but there has been a letter from the three leaders of the centre-right, including the UDC, who may not be represented in its leadership at national level, and we share that proposal and we hope that the Government will have the humility to make an effort. The narration in which the opposition behaved badly, out of charity, is part of propaganda, but when does this country make a qualitative leap, not only in its majority, but also on the part of the opposition? I say that because some autogols have been committed. Then we must all go beyond our fences, if we really love this country. I say this very frankly: here it seems that most people are a bit affected by Houdini's syndrome, they tend to hide reality with illusions, but then they know what happens? Here people begin to come, those who in the flesh denounce the shortcomings of some measures and we can also come across; You say that you have approved, that you are resolving, and we, with great honesty, say that they are post-war measures, so we are aware of the extent of the damage in which we live. We cannot hide behind a finger and behind the fact that some of your measures have not produced the desired effects of the majority. I quote one of many: the famous 400 billion euro bazooka of investments, of which only 60 billion are guaranteed. On the territory this is reflected in the fact that companies do not make it and not by bad will of the Government - I say it with extreme intellectual honesty - but because the formulas were wrong. If the field of assistance is enlarged, then someone will also have to pose the problem of how to produce and how to create wealth and added value. Mr President, until now, unfortunately, the government's measures have gone in the direction of helping some realities and then someone has also taken advantage of them - this is unfortunately part of the human being - but they have not had the desired effects. It is not only the Istat and the Parliamentary Bureau that denounce the shortcomings of these measures: it is enough to go around. If we leave the palaces, we realize that the shops close and testify it are not voters of center-right, center-left or of the 5 Stars, but people who every morning raise the shutter of their business, in which unfortunately the customers do not enter. The historic center of Rome is empty, there is no one. If then we hide behind the fences, with the classic propaganda, for which everyone claims a small flag, saying "We did this of the 5 Stars" or "This is the flag of the PD, of Forza Italia or of the UDC," I do not think we are rendering a service to the country and someone, sooner or later, will ask us to account. Mr President, this Houdini syndrome ultimately leads to the fact that today we risk splitting up and I believe that this is a defeat of politics. Mr Gualtieri was here this morning, and I am glad that he is not here now, because I hope he will be at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance to try to gather some requests, which - I repeat - do not come from Salvini, Berlusconi or Meloni. Then each of us has the hues and the ways to denounce the shortcomings or problems of the citizens, but these are problems that are expressed by the living flesh of the country, by the people, by our fellow citizens. I am glad that the friends of Forza Italia have not responded to the provocations, because this does not mean widening the Government or creating a new majority. These are the faces of someone who has something to fear, because those who fear constructive dialogue announce insults and denigrations. Those who are not afraid of their identity open the bridge of dialogue and listen to the demands, which are sometimes made with bright or colorful hues, but which are real and not instrumental. I think then that the government and the majority have a great opportunity, like the opposition, because here we all have to make a qualitative leap. This narrative, for which on the one hand there is good, that is, the Government that cares for the interests of the country and on the other a screaming and inadequate opposition, does not make. Then there will be the time when voters will judge who has worked best and who has done it in a more credible way. Today I think that the effort that the majority must make, but above all the government, is to listen to the cry of alarm that comes from the country, that at this moment is represented, in majority or minority will be the citizens to say, also on this side of Parliament, that does not want to enter the government, help it or support a new majority, but simply wants to help the country to get out of the pandemic: nothing more and nothing less. Are we allowed to do that? On the two previous occasions we voted for EUR 80 billion of deficits and we did so firmly, because we put the interests of our political parties at the heart of the country's interests. Colleagues, you cannot say that we have not given you a space of credit and trust. Today we tell you that it is not enough to further indebt the country, because this manoeuvre will not be enough, because the problems in September will arise. In conclusion, Mr President, we have also done well in this narration to defend the European Union, and I believe that even the a little more rebellious allies have become aware and have convinced themselves that without Europe we are not going anywhere. We are all rowing in the same direction, to change the European paradigm, towards greater solidarity. I do not know whether this political class and Parliament are in a position, as President Zanda said, to mandate the President-in-Office of the Council to identify a political synthesis. We would like to be at the side not of the Government, not of this majority, but of the Italians, by voting on the deviation under consideration, but you put us in a position to represent, in a dignified way, the interests of all Italians, not only of those whom you represent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u83	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, you are asking us today to approve the National Reform Programme 2020 and the third budgetary deviation within the last four months. The National Reform Programme appears to be a very general text, very full-bodied, full of hundreds of pages and thousands of words, but basically useless, because a text, when it contains infinite good intentions and potential interventions in all directions, is ultimately devoid of content and substantially empty. In this National Reform Programme 2020 there is everything and so, in fact, there is absolutely nothing at all. That is why you can only have a negative assessment from our Group. We would have liked a number of priority actions and, above all, we would have liked to know how to achieve these objectives. Instead, we are talking about the same things that have been talked about in recent decades, in an absolutely academic way and without any possibility for us to believe that this plan is credible. Then there is the third call for resources to be allocated to the budget, totalling 25 billion. Between April and today, a total of 100 billion deficits will be allocated to this measure, which will of course increase the public debt and the interest that we will have to pay every year on the debt itself. It is clear that they are all necessary to deal with the emergency, but the basic theme is as follows: you are facing an emergency by allocating resources for the Integration Fund (this is necessary) and for various alms to the self-employed and holders of VAT numbers (this is certainly necessary too), you have created an emergency income to give resources to those who do not have income and at this time risk hunger, but what is missing, compared to these onerous appropriations, is the following. You can't think of moving forward by spending tens and hundreds of billions infinitely, to deal exclusively with the state of emergency. We risk being in a dramatic situation within a few months. When the resources for the Integration Fund are over, when there will be no more closures and when you will no longer be able to postpone the payment of taxes and they will have to be paid the taxes of a whole year (in fact you have not cancelled them, you have simply postponed them and only partially, since someone is paying or has to pay huge resources), the question is: what are we going to do? What will the country do? How can we cope with this crisis? You're not putting yourself through this. The debate in this House is a bit surreal; tens of billions are actually being allocated, not to solve the problems, but to deal with the emergency. You are not creating the conditions for a revival of our economy after the emergency. The figures provided by the Parliamentary Budget Office state that in May, however, after the lockdown, industrial production did not return to the previous one, but had a 20% decrease. And so is construction. This means that, if we were in a difficult situation before and our country was in many ways the taillight of Europe, after this crisis and after the delivery of all these tens of billions, we will find ourselves in an absolutely dramatic situation. There is no real strategy for relaunching our economy, there is no trace of structural reforms affecting fiscal pressure; it is a unique opportunity wasted and you are simply postponing the abyss in front of which we will find ourselves in a few months, without finding solutions. With regard to the ESM and the recovery fund, it is fair to say that the European Commission will also have the possibility of setting the conditions for lending those loans: we are always talking about loans and not about lost funds. Among the recommendations already written since 2019 - and the European Commission wants to arrive here - it is said that Italy must ensure that tax concessions are reduced, that cadastral values are reformed, thus increasing the taxation of citizens - the assets of which my colleague Mr Bagnai spoke - and that pension reforms are fully implemented and, therefore, that the Fornero law may be repeated in its entirety. Nothing, then, is given to us. We are conditioned by the choices and impositions of someone else: this is our concern, of which citizens must be aware. You do not represent the solution to the problems; you represent the problem because, only through a real tax reform, the country will be able to recover. You spend tens of billions on the emergency, but you won't find the solutions you need. Without work there is no rebirth for our country and for our economy and we will have to take note of it in a few months, when the situation becomes dramatic. Today it seems to be a bit 'on the Titanic: it cheerfully sounds the grandcassa of President Conte. Tomorrow we will see how we will find ourselves, in a very difficult situation, faced with which we will have to identify the responsibilities. Today the responsibility to govern is yours and you are wasting it, you are using it badly and the citizens will finally respond to the elections, which you can postpone, but do not prevent and then things will change. We are ready to rule. We have put forward our proposals, which have remained unheard of, but sooner or later we know and are aware that it will be up to us to give answers to a country in crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u85	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators and senators, representatives of the Government, today we approve the National Reform Programme, the document that marks the guidelines that the Government will follow in the coming months, together with the bill of budgetary settlement and the state statement. From the general states of the economy has emerged a program with measures aimed at restarting the Country: that is what our president, Giuseppe Conte, has said yesterday, and the program traces the essential lines that overlap with the program of recovery and resilience, the recovery plan, that will be developed after the adoption of the European instrument for the recovery, the next generation EU. The document talks mainly about the reform of the tax system, because one of the most serious problems we have - not only in Italy, but, alas, also at European level - that has also been exposed to us by economist Piketty in his books, is that of inequality. We are taking a great step forward here, a reform based on efficiency, fairness and progressive direct and indirect taxes to reduce the pressure on middle classes and families, a pressure that we clearly saw more in the period of the Covid-19 and which taught us many things that we must not forget: it taught us that we must cooperate, but here in the Senate, in the Upper House, I still feel that there is no collaboration. This is the moment when you have to put aside your own selfishness, your own self-confidence and think of the citizens: we are here for this and for this reason we have been elected. I could keep talking to you here about data, numbers, but I don't want to do this right now. What I have to do is something else. Here we are talking about three major areas: modernisation of the country, ecological transition, social inclusion, territorial inclusion and gender equality. These are three major lines, which will be carried out in a country that must become completely digital, in order to allow everyone to access what is called well-being. But what is well - being? Very often, according to the economic model that we have unfortunately carried out so far, well-being has been seen perhaps only as a well-being of the market. Above all, we need to provide for the weakest sections; not just me, but a series of economics books, and you can find these same considerations there too. A greener and more sustainable country: here I have heard about territory, our territory, to be attentive to our resources. Our resources must be protected, first of all, and this - alas - has not been done. That is why we are now talking about a green new deal and we are going through a whole series of actions that we are going to vote on today. The money we are given must be spent well. But I would not look so much at money, but at the hands of those who have to carry out a series of struggles for all citizens. This government is doing this: it is bringing equity, it is protecting natural capital, it is making sure that in 2050 we can really have climate neutrality, something we say and that we promised our children - I keep saying this - in the squares. That's what we have to do. There must be decarbonisation and it is clearly stated in the Document. What are you doing? It not only helps our Earth system, our common home, because we reduce CO2 in the atmosphere. We need to diversify our energy park, because we cannot rely solely on non-renewable resources, namely coal and oil, which emit CO2 into the atmosphere - that's what they do, it's a thermodynamic reaction - and they are also limited and there will be no tomorrow. Renewable energies are welcome, and for this reason we are also talking about a smart grid and accumulators that are necessary to carry this perspective forward. All this is there, it means innovation and it also means making an innovation with incentives that we are pursuing for our small and medium-sized enterprises, so that tomorrow there will be a market - but it has already started - of environmentally sustainable and renewable products. Italian companies must renew themselves in order to be competitive in an international market now global. That is what we do with the document that we are going to vote on. In conclusion, I wanted to recall another point. The European Commission has chosen as the new title of the recovery fund the name next generation EU, i.e. next generation European. We continue to call it recovery fund, but it is actually called that: the next European generation. This should remind us - I repeat - that it is useless to continue here to divide the clothes of something. There is nothing to divide, but to leave what we have and improve it for future generations, for our children, for an Earth, a system that does not belong to us, but that has been given to us to be protected; it always belongs to those who leave it in the future. So let us remember: the next European generation. The future will be theirs; we are here only at the service of those who in this period - the weakest groups - asked for our support. The government is doing this: we support the weakest, those who tomorrow will have to find a home, our common home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u87	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u88	Mr President, first of all, I would like to repeat something that has already been said by many of my fellow Members with regard to cooperation: our cooperation has been demonstrated by the whole of the amending phase, by the number of amendments we have proposed to the various measures, and there are our ideas and our solutions for the country in the various sectors. So the cooperation on our part is there. We cannot say that this same collaboration is given by the Government and in particular by the President of the Count Council. And it is not about selfishness, but only about the willingness to accept advice from those who perhaps also represent a political force that has a considerable presence at the level of local authorities. Our Group, both in the Senate and in the House, has many local administrators in its ranks; people who every week confront the various categories of citizens: those who produce, those who suffer, those who trade, families, those who build. Having said that, I would like to deal with two aspects. First of all, I am pleased to see that the majority also emphasize some fundamental issues. Let's talk about the green new deal. Of course we must do great things; it is not good for me either, as Senator Paragon said, that many incentives have ended up with other states such as China for benches, for example. Not everyone knows, perhaps, that most of the banks are produced in China or the United States; those of China have a lower quality level, those made with moulds in the United States are of superior quality, but they are not made in Italy. Electric scooters are not made in Italy, solar photovoltaic panels are not made in Italy. [[Applause]] Either we decide to plant plants that make these productions or else we will continue to help others: it doesn't seem like a smart move, it doesn't seem like a way to relaunch our country. But let's go back to school; you know it's my passion. We must reflect on all the major shortcomings in our country in the school sector compared to the rest of Europe. The European Commission has told us that we must act in the short term to stem the emergency, while at the same time planning for a medium- to long-term recovery. Once again, on this front we must decide that school leaving, which must be invested, is not acceptable, that it is necessary to recruit teachers, especially in the most suffering group, namely the first grade secondary school. We will provide the benches with the wheels, space stuff, forgetting - and this is the everyday life - that in Italian schools many spaces, from bathrooms to counters to heaths, are vandalized regularly. Then, perhaps, there is so much to do: the school bench is mine, but temporarily; it is of the community. So, we need more education, we need respect, and we need to make it clear to the kids - and very often to their families - that they are part of a system, which is why we all have to do our part. Mr President, I would have liked to have said a lot of other things, but I conclude with an image that seems to me to be very similar to reality. With the required deviation we increase the debt of our country, and then, over time, if we first traveled on a large highway, this caliber has become increasingly reduced: with the crisis we went on a provincial road, and then, with this additional 25 billion deviation, we are climbing with our vehicle on a mountain road, full of hairpin bends, a winding road. But what we all have to bear in mind is that on the one hand there is always the precipice, so not only will we be bound, but if we waste money for lack of coordination, of foresight, of vision, there will be the precipice waiting for us. We seek in every way to avoid this tragedy, but you must do so, clearly, creating a balance between giving assistance and supporting the weakest and giving support for the revival of those who produce the work, to those who have an idea of how Italy should become a modern country. Awake! Focus on this. This is the greatest possibility ever given to us in the history of recent years. Let's talk about a really important amount of money. If it is not used to the best, it will be the failure of our country, and I do not care to blame you; I care that this country does not fail. He deserves to survive and return to being a great country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u89	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u90	Mr President, the budgetary deviation is a necessary act to allow the issuance of new liquidity in the productive and social fabric, but if a sign of the presence of the institutions had to be launched in full lockdown, today we cannot limit ourselves to this task, firstly because even if there is the ECB and there is the resources of the European package, an increase in debt still affects the financial credibility of a country and the possibility of sustaining it in the long term, secondly, because the latest economic forecasts leave no room for doubt: only with a strong investment in productive classes on the one hand and with effective support for domestic demand on the other, Italy can think of getting out of the economic crisis. It is therefore good that we stay away from charitable temptations that do not really cure, but also make more serious the problems of an Italy that, even before the Covid, had and expressed modest economic performances. With the simplification decree, the government has launched some positive signals and also some of the measures contained in the decree relaunch - I think about the bonus on restructuring - definitely go in the right direction, but we read from the economic data that we are in a system crisis that requires a constant commitment over time and you must not be afraid to say things as they are. Today Italian companies are fighting the battle for their existence. They are doing so in trade, where they estimate a mortality of one tenth of the exercises and are fighting in the small and medium enterprises, where one in three activities is at risk of closure, a figure that doubles if we think of the sectors most affected: tourism and catering. What should we do for these activities that are the backbone of the Italian economy? First of all, help them in this battle for life, but the blocking of redundancies, the failure to grant vouchers and other forms of light bargaining certainly do not benefit them. We must put our hand to the decree of dignity, we are in an emergency situation, we are not in a situation of normality. The Dignity Decree has made temporary recruitment more complicated and a serious reflection must be opened on how citizenship income, an important measure, has completely failed as an active policy for work. New interventions on the integration fund are fine, but it is also necessary to leave the necessary organisational flexibility to companies. We must not cast them through necessary reorganization bans. Secondly, we must ensure that, for at least a year, we forget the existence of the tax system in order to work in the meantime on a reform which starts from the proposal which I consider to be very important and fair of the Director of the Revenue Agency in order to eliminate the system of payments and balances. I think some of these days' anticipations are positive, such as a two-month stop to tax records, from those who have taken the path of installment to solicitations, foreclosures, mortgages. Positive is also the announcement of a 50% cut for payments stopped between March and May for self-employed workers, with the postponement to 21-22. For now they are intentions and announcements, but they are good examples that the government should follow. At the same time, work is needed to attract European resources. I do not dwell on this point, we have already said of the risks of an operation that requires a truly up-to-date public administration and on the fact that territorial autonomy must be involved, but this is a unique opportunity that must not be missed. In the coming years, we have a great deal of money that needs to be invested well. It's a unique opportunity. If we miss this opportunity, I think that for Italy there will be very difficult years. At this point the NRP, the National Reform Programme, which gives the elements on where to bring Italy and how to modernise it. The PNR, as I have read it, has all the elements for a real modernization of Italy. In fact, I wonder if you don't have too many. The government must say what the priorities are, with a road map of the times and modalities, because this challenge that we have before us not only win with the ideas, but we win it if we are able to complete all those measures that serve to modernize and increase the competitiveness of the Italy system. For us, one of the main priorities must be the reform of civil and criminal justice. Endless processes: In addition to the problem of legal certainty, there is the problem of the competitiveness of the Italian system, vis-à-vis other national systems and at world level. So reform is absolutely necessary. Certain, short and secure deadlines, legal certainty and, at the same time, the fight against evasion and crime. At the same time, we must not fail to support our real economy, export, the internationalization of companies at a time when foreign markets become increasingly competitive and difficult for us. And attention must not be lacking to the territories, with investments and projects in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity, eliminating, on projects of national interest, those constraints and bottlenecks that have limited and delayed their effective implementation in the past. Public investment to digitise Italy will be essential. An absolute priority; Italy must run at once. There must be an overcoming of the procurement code, which must become an instrument that directs the work of the administrators, and not an obstacle to the implementation of the projects. Here, too, I mentioned rumors contained in the PNR, but I believe that if, within a year, these points were achieved, Italy could really reverse the course compared to the causes of those low economic performances that existed even before the Covid-19. Let me give you two reflections on public administration, because one thing is clear to me: if we want to restart Italy, we cannot do so without a competent, professional and capable public administration. In the past we have seen many reforms of public administration. Unfortunately, most of them intended to review the personal structure of public administrations and not the quality of services. The focus should not be on the rationalisation of human resources, but on the allocation of the necessary skills, on training, on qualification and also on the exploitation of public administration staff. It must be done in a structural way, only with a professional public administration inspired by the spirit of service. This is often lacking and I hope that it will become a principle proper to the administrations: the spirit of service to the citizen, not of bureaucracy, but of service to the citizen. This would be the medicine to simplify the Italy system and to make the country run. In conclusion, public administration, effective and efficient justice, world-wide competitive education and training, ladies and gentlemen. We need to increase the capacity and competence of our world of education and training because, in the end, it is people, it is not things, that make a difference. Simplification: Let us simplify the bureaucracy and fight against evasion, but also against crime. Last but not least, because we are in a health emergency and now there is also a lot of money available, we make our health system a flagship at European level. If these are the priorities, then I am sure that Italy is moving in the right direction. For all these reasons, the SVP Group will vote for the deviation of the budget. The SVP is in fact a responsible force, which supports governments, especially in an emergency phase like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u91	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u92	Mr President, it is not easy to take the floor when Italians are in debt. It is not easy, Deputy Minister, to speak when you ask Parliament to exceed the threshold, even plastic, of EUR 100 billion of additional debt, to be burdened on the shoulders not only of our fellow citizens, but also of our children and grandchildren. It's not easy. The picture is grey; it is grey like the dress I wore today, almost iconicly, because the prospects that this Government and this majority are giving the country are unfortunately not pink, but are very, very grey. Mr President, President Conte, yesterday in the Senate and today in the House, came to request the extension of the state of emergency; translated, it means that he came to say that we in Europe are the sick par excellence; it means that he wanted to tell tourists who potentially want to come to Italy, even in the South Tyrol of my colleague Steger, that Italy is an emergency country and, when you are in emergency, you are sick. It means turning to our tourists, telling them to stay at home or to choose other destinations for their tourism. This is the picture in which we are moving today. If this has been said yesterday and if today President Conte has repeated it in the House, perhaps smiling with his neighbors of counter, when our president Giorgia Meloni made him present the contradictions of this policy, well today in the Senate we are asked to authorize a further - the third - budgetary deviation, for more than 25 billion euros. Translated, again, means raising the debt-to-GDP ratio by more than 160 percent. That's why I was talking about gray before. That's why I dress in gray, because gray and gloomy is the panorama that you are bringing to the Italians and our country. Look around you. Yesterday I was in a well-known trattoria, a few hundred meters from here, in Via dell'Orso, which many of you usually attend, and the first thing the mistress, poor, told me, with a dismayed look: We're still waiting for the March Integration Fund. And should we trust you to bring about these results? Should we allow you to in debt the Italians to bring about these results, to ensure that a person, almost with tears in his eyes, tells me, 200 meters from Palazzo Madama, who is still waiting for the March integration fund? And she's not the only one, unfortunately. Just go to the public stores, artisans and traders, to understand that it is not the only one. Deputy Minister Misiani, you are a person who is definitely committed and correct. I am sure that in recent days he has probably fallen into a fatigue mistake when he said that VAT consignments no longer have problems with others. I would like to hear you say a word of clarification about this, precisely because of the friendship and esteem I have towards you, because VAT matches today are the ones that are paying the highest price in the crisis. When I hear the Confederal Unions, so dear to this majority, fighting because we have to give a good meal to the public workers, who do not run the risk of dismissal, who have not lost a euro during the lockdown, I wonder what we say to those workers in the private sector who risk dismissal, who sometimes take the Cassa Integrazione, however, obviously reduced to 60% or 80% of the salary. What do we tell those artisans, those traders, those entrepreneurs who are really almost hungry? That is the point we should discuss. Certainly, if there were more convincing answers on these issues, Brothers of Italy would have no problem sharing with you this third choice of budgetary deviation, this additional heavy debt of the country. Debts, as we know, can be useful and necessary in certain situations, but I remember a teaching that I gave from the dawn of my school commitment, even before professional: when we talk about public money we should talk not about spending but about investment. This is a basic teaching, but at a time when public money, and therefore the debts, we spend it mainly in current expenditure and forget that it should be invested first in the development and recovery of the country, here is that at this point the public debt, which is not in itself a heavy mass, becomes a guillotine that hangs on the head of each of us and that risks throwing the country into the hands of some of our European allies, who would like to see in Italy a vassal prone to their wills. I repeat that debts can be made, perhaps when you meet the requests of more than two million Italian professionals that you have sent to the square. It never happened: in not even a year, all Italian professionals went to the square for the first time in their history. Do you think they do it as a part taken and why do they dislike you? Probably many of them voted and voted for you; I don't know how many more will vote for you. But if they have come to the streets - even today the consultants of the work are doing so, after the accountants have done it and the latter have threatened the strike last week here in the Senate - it is because you have been insensitive to the cry of pain that over two million professionals have addressed to us and that only the opposition has been able to catch, while you have mocked their demands. When talking about public debt and public money, I wonder why, alongside the necessary and obvious assistance policies and the integration fund, you have not thought above all about active labour policies and the demands that the centre-right united you to support your third budgetary deviation? I am referring, for example, to the request to suspend the Dignity Decree, to reinstate vouchers at least temporarily or to reward companies that do not use the Integration Fund with reductions in contributions or with something that gave life to those companies that, by tightening their teeth, keep workers in companies and businesses. Why didn't you? Needless to say, you hear us when we speak: you feel the center-right, but you never listen to him; you want our vote, but you never accept our proposals. Gentlemen of the majority, this is not to make the national interest, but simply to perch on a position of defense of the armchair, trying in any way, also thanks to the state of emergency yesterday, to escape from that vote that you know very well would send you home and bring back in this Chamber a majority that would really do the interests of the country, VAT matches, entrepreneurs and traders. Why, instead, do you engage resources to promote smart working, which prevents, to an accountant like me, from going to the Revenue Agency to deal with issues of great importance finding a physical interlocutor and forcing to take the phone to communicate with this agency? I am also talking about colleagues attorneys, who find practically no one at the Registry. (The sitting was suspended at 14.50 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at You are basically using public money not only for welfare, but also to support phenomena that now no longer make sense and should be immediately erased. Workers must return to businesses, businesses and public offices; they must revitalize the system and return to the social world. Can't they stay at home or should this serve only you to justify the social emergency? Trying to conclude, because I see that the time is short, I can then remember that the public debt must not be used the stalls with the wheels, maybe while the Italian producers of benches tell you that they are not even able to think of participating in the public bans, because there is no steel necessary; then maybe we will discover that instead the Chinese - happens, those of the scooter - already have those benches well prepared and ready to be sold in Italy. Well, these are the things that prevent us from getting a match. Allow me one more minute, Mr President, to conclude. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, taking advantage of the change of presidency, it has already taken two minutes longer than necessary. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). My chronometer marks ten precise minutes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, please conclude. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. Today the newspapers talk of 850,000 jobs at risk, but these are not saved by the aspirin or buffer measures, which are also needed, but above all we need incisive care that will allow the sick to be reborn. You didn't do it, you didn't use - and I do end - the tax lever: this was the right time to finally introduce a rewarding tax system and flat tax and really stimulate consumption, investment and attraction of foreign capital. You have not done so: you have only thought of defending your interest and that is why Brothers of Italy will not be able to give consent to this further debt. You will assume every responsibility - you and perhaps the senators for life - for this further debt of the Italians, which does not guarantee any prospect of development and growth for this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u93	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u94	Mr President, today we are all called - representatives of the majority, minority and also of the Government - to a great challenge, so that the maneuver required is not a debt for our future generations but rather an investment for the revival of Italy, a heritage to be consolidated with ideas and proposals that may not be understandable for those who have a short-sighted vision of the potential that, in this difficult period, are emerging. It is true: the pandemic that struck us since the beginning of 2020 has suddenly changed unexpectedly the picture of our country's economic vision, which however, even though it is amidst a thousand difficulties and undeniable sacrifices, is gradually returning to normality. The measures of enormous economic and financial scope necessarily put in place by the Government with the decrees care Italy, liquidity and recovery, for families, workers and enterprises of every sector, public and private, professionals and artisans, have allowed at least in part to limit the long-term damages for our society, while strengthening the national health system, civil protection and the entire Italian production system. We cannot afford to have economic depression following the serious health emergency that has characterized the last few months. That is why we need to act on how best to use resources from the European Union, but above all by working on a serious investment and reform plan. The National Reform Programme is a strategic policy plan to be adopted for Italy's recovery in terms of economic growth, but it cannot have any effect unless it is directly linked to proposals for sustainability, social inclusion, territorial cohesion and innovation. It is inseparable from the European recovery plan, which has as its objective a considerable increase in investment in research and education, in order to finally achieve reforms that are not only of façade but intervene in a structural way on the economic and social development of the country. The strategies to combat the crisis that has been afflicting the Italian production system for some time, thus increasing the well-being gap between the different areas, do not want or need to be designed only to respond to the moment of emergency, but must be synergistic for long-term economic and stable growth. They must therefore go through concrete actions and investments to increase the supply of the most important sectors - health, transport, tourism, education, agriculture, robotics, cultural goods - and above all through the preparation of clear measures for administrative and tax simplification. The simplification of administrative procedures, for us, starts precisely from the removal of all the obstacles that have so far prevented the realization of public works and infrastructure, with a slowing down of contracts and investments in strategic business sectors limiting also every initiative and private investment, which are important elements. It is also important to keep private investment in order to improve the functioning of the overall system. There is a need to improve procurement design, ensuring greater flexibility for contracting stations. We must immediately unlock the public works already financed and in advanced design and complete all those in progress with a simplification of bureaucratic practices, while keeping attention, at the same time, to the protection of the environment, the landscape and cultural heritage and without prejudice to the resistance to corruption, but without sticking ourselves in a judicial tunnel that very often makes Italy captive of a distorted idea of justice, democracy and democratic representation itself. Another fundamental point is to increase public investment, strengthening communication and transport infrastructures, working also for an extension of the high-speed railway network, especially for the regions of Southern Italy, within a fast mobility plan, through a scrupulous use of conventional and dedicated routes and with an integration of infrastructure interventions on the already existing network. It is necessary to plan an integrated system of transport infrastructure and services in order to boost the competitiveness of enterprises, to reduce the gap between the most disadvantaged and the most dynamic areas with a concrete system of facilitated taxation and finally to offer more efficient services. Just as it is necessary to intervene with an increase in investment in education and research in every field, fundamental pillars of a reform that truly aims at educational and cultural growth of our population. In all this, I repeat, we must not forget private investment, by promoting access to credit for companies and encouraging their recapitalisation. It is necessary to support the capital consolidation of Italian companies, increasing the involvement of foreign investors to give a significant boost to the country's economy. Colleagues, these and other measures are and will only be possible thanks to the further maneuvering of the 25 billion deviation required today to reprogram tax deadlines, extend the Cassa Integrazione to guarantee the workers, extend the block of dismissals, get the school back safely with a reorganization of the buildings and new hirings, provide incentives to the enterprises for a gradual restart and allocate new resources to the local authorities that in the last period have made enormous sacrifices. Italy, beyond any consideration, has given itself a Government to which all, today, without distinction, we ask to intervene. A government that in a thousand peripeces is taking us back out of the swamp. Let's imagine an Italy with a stretched hand, ready to be pulled once again out of the umpteenth crisis, whose fault, this time, cannot be attributed to anyone. It is a democratically constituted government that must, because this is its task, implement all the actions in order to succeed in giving answers and relief to the aid required. And if anyone stands in the way of this action, obstructing it, he will have to answer it, because in this House we are doing the will and the exclusive interests of those people who are holding our hand and of Italy as a whole. That is not to say that the Government and Parliament are running out of action by facilitating these measures. Our action is characterized by a constant commitment to ensure that the economic provisions and efforts made available really produce the expected effects so that the welfare philosophy, which we do not always share, remains really marginal, and instead we are facing a period of prosperity and well-being through the encouragement of work, for too long blocked by bureaucratic constraints and laws not applied or applied poorly. The required deviation, added to all the other resources allocated and that will come, serves and will be really effective only if we succeed in restarting those works, small and large, already recognized as priorities for an effective relaunch of our country and that unfortunately have had to undergo a further slowdown due to this sudden pandemic event. Gentlemen, I appeal to everyone, today's choice is a courageous one because we know that the resources of the maneuver we are having to date are configured, as our colleagues in the minority said, as a real debt and for this reason you are opposed. We are aware of this, but we believe that they must be designed to bring about a change of direction in policies that have been implemented or not implemented so far, as a real investment for the future. Italy vivi-PSI is committed, because firmly convinced of the potential of Italy and Italians, with ideas for planning and a program aimed at optimising the nature of today's measure from forecast of indebtedness to real and positive investment, that gives a future to our young people and to Italy all, with actions of economic policy strategically inserted in a Europeanistic perspective of sharing, for a tangible recovery of our wonderful country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u95	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u96	Mr President, today's debate confirms the usefulness of Law 243 of 24 December 2012, which amended Article 81 of the Constitution in the sense of greater seriousness in public finance and greater accountability on the part of Parliament. That law, proposed by the Government, was passed by a very large majority with the contribution of the Groups of the then majority (Forza Italia, including the component that would then give birth to Brothers of Italy, Democratic Party, Center Pole) and also of the League, then to the opposition that, indeed, gave a decisive contribution thanks to the then president of the Budget Committee of the House, Mr Giorgetti. That law that we are observing says that the deviation from the planned deficit is a possible thing but only in the event of exceptional events. However, the deviation cannot pass in silence in the country and in Parliament; for this reason the burden of approval was foreseen with the absolute majority of the members of each Chamber. A wake-up call, then. From the speeches that followed I would say that the alarm was heard, deepened, taken seriously as it deserved and recorded with concern by the opposition, but also by the majority. There are two main concerns. I would like to say at once that I too share them, although I am announcing, in these very exceptional circumstances, my vote in favour of the deviation or, better, I should say reluctant acceptance of the deviation. The first concern, shared by many of our colleagues, is the further gigantic increase in public debt, which we will leave to our children and grandchildren. Today the increase is justified by the strong fall in demand for goods and services and the need to restore, at least in part, the lost incomes due to the pandemic. However, it should be stressed that it would have been important, as some of us had consistently requested, for the deficit and debt containment effort to be accentuated in the favourable years from 2015 to 2019. The second concern, which I found very widespread in today's debate - and I am delighted to say so - concerns the use of the financial resources that will be acquired with the greatest indebtedness. On the basis of the way they will be used, the resources will be very or very little forerunners of growth and I mean real economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, capable of generating employment and social well-being and not growth hoped for in the electoral consensus for the political force of belonging. This is the biggest issue, on which, honestly, for now, there is little to say, namely the issue of productivity in terms of growth and what will be done with the many funds raised with debt. The National Reform Programme is now embryonic and at the same time encyclopedic. It is encyclopedic because there is everything, but actually a vision is difficult to emerge. Of course, the great commitment to programming linked to the use of European funds is everything to be defined, put into practice, tested and tested. It will be and will have to be Italy's most ambitious economic planning operation since 1962, the year in which the Minister of the budget, Ugo La Malfa, appointed Giorgio Ruffolo as secretary general of economic programming, which he carried out until 1975. The elderly among us remember that experience as a season full of ideas, many of which are somewhat abstract, and poor in resources. Today, sixty years later, Italy will receive huge resources and we hope that the abundance of resources does not correspond this time to lack of ideas and above all we hope that ideas, besides being there, are not abstract: they are ambitious but realistic also in reforming to make the Italian economy more dynamic and competitive. By the way, some people today see the expression "structural reform" with distrust. Perhaps it is worth remembering that this expression was not invented by some neoliberal economist of the Chicago School, but in Italy it was invented by Riccardo Lombardi, in 1961. A final consideration, Mr President, is purely political and echoes the spirit of words spoken today very loudly by Senator Zanda, but also by Senator Saccone, and words written today in the letter published by Senator Salvini and Mr Berlusconi and Mr Meloni. Italy enters a high stage - in my opinion very high - risk: that of the default of its credibility. Eight years ago the state's financial default was at stake, but this time, with the opportunities that Europe gives us - very big - our credibility is at stake and, with a default, the credibility of the adjective "Italian" would be lost and the country's credibility. From now on, in the face of this enormous test that awaits us, I believe that the behaviour of the Government and oppositions must keep in mind, at every moment, that probably never in the history of Italy - and certainly never in the history of the Italian Republic - has arrived at such a moment of truth, that it can cause to decay the often adverse prejudices that in the world and in Europe feed on our country or - alas - to corroborate them all. Well, the decisions on which a greater sense of responsibility will be needed begin today, because today the Government has presented us with the report prescribed by the constitutional law, but, to see it, it has presented us with only a deposit of this report. That constitutional law says that the government, in case of deviation, presents a report to Parliament in which it explains many things and defines the plan of return to the programmatic objective of the deficit. As the Parliamentary Budget Office reminds us, in its report, the Government this time considered it premature to define the details of the medium to long-term strategy to reduce public debt; it could be more fully defined in the DEF Update Note in September. This is a part that Parliament still has to receive and consider and on which it still has to speak. I therefore do not think that today will automatically be approved for this return. Then of course there is all the great work on using the recovery fund. I believe that the right attitude would be that all political forces, government and opposition, would be preparing to battle on this by disarming the ghosts of the past. There is a matter of dividing between political forces, but let us not draw behind, as bulky baggage and no longer present for 90%, old-fashioned disputes about Europe or metaphysical or shaman issues about the true nature of the ESM; This is a fault that divides both the majority and the opposition. We try to become more adults, to make good use of what Europe allows Italy to have, also for the Italian contribution, and, if we want to give satisfaction also to the sovereignists, perhaps their critical intemperance of recent years may also have helped to move Europe towards a solution that must now be evaluated with new eyes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u97	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I can say, with the sharing of many of you, that if the months behind this dramatic pandemic have taught us so much among them there is certainly the awareness that wanting is power, that when one really wants to do it, even the results that seem unattainable or complicated can be achieved in no time. We have seen public services, companies, schools and universities organize didactics and distance work in a few days. Above all, however, in this framework we have finally seen Europe show the face for which our Constituents, but also those who had imagined it, dreamed it, thought it, had probably built it: I think of the face of solidarity, the face of a true and great community, also of protection and protection of the members of that great family that is Europe. So in a few weeks or a few months we achieved results that seemed unattainable to us. I think I can only make two pre-conditions about Europe. The first is that I do not think it is a coincidence - you will allow me to do this - that in this historical phase Europe is directed and led by three women, who have put a general interest in particular interests, in the egoisms of the national states; they have made the common interest prevail to bring home a useful result for everyone, a great idea (which must belong to every community) that there can be the protection of one without protecting the overall good of the team within which you play and you decided to play together. On the other hand, intellectual honesty would like all those who, in recent months, had been betting on a failure, on a failure of that project of Europe, to recognize, regardless of its belongings and means of consent, that today Italy without this Europe would be truly tragically alone in the face of an absolutely unpredictable drama and with unimaginable proportions. I say this to point out first of all that we have before us, as has been said by many, a huge opportunity, which is only at the beginning. It will be up to us to play the right cards and I believe that this National Reform Program says a lot about how Italy intends to play this game, stay in this field and bring home its results, coming out first of all from an emerging logic, obviously necessary and due in the weeks that we have behind, and finally putting hand to those reforms that we ourselves really want from many - I would say too many - years. In this sense, the National Reform Programme sets out a main course, indicating above all a set of tangible and intangible infrastructure on which to invest our energies: I am obviously thinking about reform of public administration, digital, environmental transition, reform of justice, school and training. In my opinion, however, all these directions and roadmaps will not be able much if we do not attack the many - too many - gaps and the many - too many - inequalities that still exist in our country. There is no reform that will hold you if we fail to overcome these double speeds. It is not only and is no longer a question of social justice but also of the opportunities to eliminate and curb growth and more sustainable and fairer development models, but also more just and more competitive. We have been saying this for a long time and we are convinced of this. We are convinced that today inequalities are of many types: territorial, social, generational, but above all gender. Today in this country men and women do not have the same possibilities; today one in two women does not work, two in three women in the Mezzogiorno do not work. They are disturbing aspects for which we cannot be indignant, surprised or worried only when it reminds us of some national research institute, in the face of data that obviously disturb and that above all throw a mortgage on the future of Italy. In fact, if today women choose not to have more children in this country because it costs too much in terms of career progression, advancement, opportunity, with a view to seeing enhanced skills and knowledge that they have acquired; if women choose not to have children, if they stay at home and do not work, leaving at home skills, talents and professionalism, we do not believe that this is a problem for women: it is a mortgage that concerns the future of Italy, so it must concern us all together, men and women. What then? I simply say this: half of the resources that we will have available to invest to reduce this gap, let's invest them to give equal opportunities to the men and women of this country; let's invest them because it will not only be a theme of social justice but will be a useful and convenient choice for all Italy, which will face the main inequality and in some way will be a force and potential of absolutely exponential growth. It will be a result that we will put on the ground to protect everyone, not just women. But what does this mean, how do you do it? We have said to ourselves, and others have said so, as compared to other sectors, that we have nothing to come up with. It has nothing to invent this Parliament, which a few weeks ago adopted an act of direction, taking into account the dramatic data on how women have gone through and have come out of this lockdown, protagonists in the front line of so many dramas and forced to pay a higher price (67 percent of women asked for parental leave and Cassa Integrazione went first to them). I mean, women really paid for the price of lockdown on their skin. In this Parliament we have adopted a clear act of direction with the adoption of a motion on women's employment which has declined our priority and strategic interventions to address a real plan of women's employment in this country. I repeat, we have nothing to come up with. We wrote it there, black and white: it is an act of this Parliament, from which we will necessarily have to start. I am thinking of Mr Bonetti's task force and the Colao plan, in which there have been clear indications, including that of investing in strategic sectors with greater female participation. We have said of the smart working and of a different organization of the company, to which have been added, in recent weeks, interesting proposals. Minister Provenzano spoke of the decontribution of women's work in the Mezzogiorno and President Conte spoke of women's leadership. In short, we have a lot of ideas if we do not want to consider the many ideas that come from the outside worlds. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We then attack this fact with an important investment on this ground, which means - also and above all - attacking the theme of gender violence. More employment of women means less violence, as violence is combated not only by criminal rules but also by giving women autonomy and economic self-sufficiency. An important investment in sharing the workload and care is also needed. Then there is the social value of motherhood: if it is a value, it is for everyone and we must all take care of it. [[Applause]] And, again, sharing parental responsibilities, economic recognition of domestic care work and, finally, a serious and important investment on education and school, which is the only tool that allows us to rebalance the starting points. I say this for kindergartens and children, but also for women. I think of women in the STEM area (science, technology, engineering and mathematics); we break down prejudices and stereotypes and promote competence and its enhancement. On the merits women compete, win and do not fear. Let us then promote this formation. This is a strategic axis that can really reduce inequalities (I speak of the Mezzogiorno and Italy as a whole). If all this is necessary, then we need an office for the impact of pre- and post-intervention policies (we called for it in the motion for a women's employment in a clear way), which really and concretely knows how to assess the effectiveness of the policies that we put in place and that it can do so before and after the implementation of the interventions. Only in this way will we really understand if we are going in the right direction and, above all, we will be able to correct it if necessary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please finish your speech because your time expired two minutes ago. VALENT (PD). I conclude by saying that the challenge we face is not a challenge for women: it is a challenge that we will win in the interests of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u99	Senator Valente, your time was over. We're all a little slower today. Senator Valente had seven minutes at her disposal and - I say this not for her, but in general - when the Groups decide to divide the time available to them among several speakers, each senator must then adhere to the limits set. Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, we are in the third vote on the budgetary deviation. President Monti first recalled, as also done by the Parliamentary Budget Office, that Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 imposed the indication of the path for covering and achieving the so-called medium-term objective. Those who speak well remember this because I was rapporteur of that law both in the Commission and in the Assembly (it was the last law of my experience in the 2008-2013 legislature). There is no such thing, and I personally also understand the difficulty that the Government would have had if it had to indicate more precisely the path of return; but we can look at it later. The current 25 billions lead us to 100 billion, which is much more than the figure that the centre-right joined, in March, had requested with an organic design of the interventions. With them we come to exceed 515 billion euros of total impact on the balances: a huge figure - as has been mentioned by many - that brings a question mark regarding those that will also be the effects on GDP and - what is important - on the path for the use of the instruments that we are going to authorize, that is, the new debt, the availability that we authorize. Added to these resources is what the European Union makes further available, in addition to the ordinary Structural Funds, with recovery funds, Sure, ESM (beyond assessments whether or not to use it). We should have also had a debate on the issue of overall compatibility, because the assessment is not only about compatibility today - and I know the Minister knows that - but it is how, with respect to those instruments, we can make the Italian public debt complex compatible, in relation, then, to all variations. On the other hand, it is not possible to imagine a substitute solution - as I have heard from the hearings too - because those funds also have the objectives of the European Union's recommendations. Moreover, they are the political choice to intervene on a situation of extreme difficulty and uneasiness. The issue is how we will do it overall, and how we do it today. Therefore, the issue is not so much the immediate deviation of today's 25 billion, but the use of new availability, as mentioned in the open letter to the President of the Council by the center-right leaders (President Berlusconi, Salvini and Meloni) today. The letter contains some themes and conditions: tax, work, families. And it is the actions that must be legislatively and regulatoryly related to the National Reform Programme; actions that must make the greater debt sustainable and generate the growth of gross domestic product. The National Reform Programme should therefore show us the way forward at the regulatory level to achieve these objectives. Colleagues, there is everything in the PNR list: there are all the issues mentioned. All we need is a chronoprogram and an order of priority. We agree on modernisation, ecological transition as well as social inclusion, which will be one of the great post-Covid themes because the virus is separating really rich and poor in our country, and not only economically. The separation takes place culturally, through the endowment and the ability to use the instruments, to keep up with modernity. This will be an important challenge. We also agree on what are the specific objectives. The government points them to a digital country. It's development, it's the future. The discussion on the 5G network is one of the key issues to make the leap towards the next. Just as the whole part of the infrastructure or greener, or the issue of competitiveness, understood as competitiveness in putting the companies of the North back in the conditions in particular to correspond with the foreign countries and, on the other hand, in giving the instrument to the areas of cohesion and, therefore, to the areas of the South of our country, not to distance themselves, but rather to recover the differences that emerge. The same applies to a more modern public administration. We are fully committed to this type of assessment, but they are objective. We must act on the reforms and the beginning is certainly not promising. A number of points are mentioned in the NRP on the subject of reforms; on the subject of bureaucracy there is talk of simplification, but the simplification that has come from the debate in this House is very timid, indeed in some passages the measure that will be examined in the next few days may even lead to a complication and not a simplification. On the major issue of public investment, I would like to remind you that the availability that this country will have between grants and new funding with the recovery fund, with the ESM or with others, will be of colossal size, about 350 billion. We need a precise design that can sum up the objectives, priorities and times. If you really want to promote employment in construction, you cannot exclude the cadastral categories A1, A8, A9 from the audience of the beneficiaries of the 110% bonus. [[Applause]] If, on the other hand, the objective is social rebalancing, ideal differences are valid. But if you want to deal with the autumn emergency of work, you have to make it flexible. It's worth the adagio rather than nothing, it's better rather than, and then let's re-introduce the voucher system, at least temporary, and then we'll discuss its maintenance. If you want to stimulate a fairer tax, you do not generically announce a reform, which could be shared by people to things, nor do you write - as has been written in the National Reform Programme, on page 46 - that for the fight against evasion will be used sophisticated techniques of analysis of debt entered as a role to direct the collection activity primarily towards the most solvent debtors and credits that have the greatest possibility of being collected. It is as if it were said not to pursue the evaders, but to focus on those on which one is most sure; at the limit there are informal sanctions and a result is brought home on this. Colleagues, if you want to give hope you do not do it by announcing one day yes and one day no a patrimony or letting it leak. Real estate is a saving. We in Forza Italia have, Mr Minister, colleagues, with our ideas, our proposals, the proposals of the centre-right, with a firm opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u101	I also repeat to you that the division of time into fractions of ten minutes should lead to greater respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u102	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u103	It must be acknowledged that the theory you know very well, starting with President Conte, and not only, because on several occasions also the Minister of Health, among others, has emphasized that it is extremely useful that everyone participates in providing suggestions and indications to be translated into acts of commitment procedurally in parliamentary fora, except then continue in solitude on the way of decisions taken elsewhere and sometimes smuggled for shared. [[Applause.]] The National Reform Programme, as far as health is concerned - but health has seen that growth and development, if properly activated, can be, at least as much as building - it is a statement of principles that represents little more than one percent of your work. I do not want to say that we had to make prose, but, giving strong indications for its implementation, according to the principle of loyal collaboration State-Regions, should constitute a plastic representation of what has happened in recent months and with the prescriptions so that it can no longer happen: acting in prevention, surveillance, anti-pandemic preparation and now in effective contrast to a possible epidemic. [[Applause]] There is no trace of this, nor of any process of analysis, nor of risk management, which is an essential prerequisite for the finalisation of resources in a productive way: your priority was the recurrence of a state of suspended democracy. A state of democracy suspended despite, to date, the conditions for a real emergency no longer exist! [[Applause]] It will not have escaped, to those who have had the goodness to read the four pages, the only four pages dedicated to health, that in the statements, not only there are no corrective indications, but, wishing to consider the additional two pages of annexes, not even the simple fundamental guidelines on responses to the emergency coronavirus, that is to say the problems that have led you to arrange the extension of the state of national emergency, in a heterogeneous of the aims that hides the real reasons for which we will still be in "democratura" until the whole 15 October. Not bad as a transformation, for those who had proclaimed themselves a lawyer of the people. [[Applause]] I am going to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u104	He still has a few seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u105	CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, as you remind us, there is no time to discuss, as has been done in the Commission, in order to deal with issues such as what we believe is absolutely essential, namely the demonstration of how damaging the lack of general rules for guaranteeing the redeployment of expenditure and the corresponding saving that can be obtained. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cantù, I invite you to conclude. CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). A few more seconds, please, I think it is really important; saving that can be obtained in structured accompaniment to an operational programme of investments updated. This should have been the summary in such a way as to represent a cyclical NRP, that is to say, concrete and feasible in the two-year period 2020-2021. In conclusion, Mr President, it seems very unacceptable to us... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cantù, you really have to finish. CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Just a few more seconds, Mr. President. Allow me, because this is really a fundamental issue that allows us to reflect on a crucial aspect. Just be patient for a minute, please. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's already over a minute compared to the time you were allowed, Senator Cantù. CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Finally, it seems unacceptable to us that we can continue to finance obsolete, technological and information systems without controls, which do not give real efficiency contributions. This is an eloquent example of the vaccination registry, which was expected in 2017, to provide a certainty of conscious prevention in vaccination prophylaxis, while now it is proposed to extend the mandatory nature of vaccines due to the lack of data collected at national level. Other than digital governance and information and predictive flows according to machine learning techniques as is theorized in the document under discussion. We are not even able to collect elementary data that could have already been transferred up to date on a trivial but always effective spreadsheet. Only the pandemic and the budgetary deviations have been seen during this period, not the results that the President-in-Office of the Council is saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u106	I also tell your Parent, who first raised his hand, that you had five minutes and spoke for seven minutes. Two more minutes is too much.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u109	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to point out that, since Senator Faggi was registered to speak, whose speech was within the sixty minutes we were given, and that her time was actually part of the report phase, as a minority rapporteur, we basically still had four minutes. So, Senator Cantù could have made it up to nine minutes. I say this for the benefit of the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u110	Mr President, you are well aware of the Rules of Procedure and you know that it is not the task of the Presidency to make these comparisons, which must be mentioned earlier, also because I have no idea how many minutes I speak or have spoken to Senator Faggi while I was not presiding. She's enlisted to speak Senator Accoto. I'll add an extra minute to the eight minutes available, in order to be fair. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak, I would like to put a simple question to everyone. What are we discussing today? Of course the answer could be: we certainly discuss economic resources. Indeed, the National Reform Programme and the budgetary deviation affect the state budget. But I'd like to broaden our field of vision. We talk about philosophy, that science that asks questions about the world, about existence and about the human being and analyzes possibilities and limits, if any, in knowledge. What are leaders and politicians, if not the bearers of thoughts and solutions to improve the lives of citizens? Today we certainly deal with purely economic issues, but the cold numbers, without a vision, are passengers. The billions disappear, they fade in the blink of an eye. The budgetary deviation and the National Reform Program are inevitably two sides of the same coin: the idea and its implementation of how to transform our country, exploiting in positive what the crisis has taught us and going, at the same time, to fill the gaps that our working, economic, entrepreneurial, health and education systems have had to date. Of course, a budgetary deviation which, with what we are discussing today, comes in total to just over EUR 100 billion cannot be without an ambitious reform plan, which will certainly be welcomed in Europe as well. It is a plan not of austerity, of tears and blood - a hard memory, which we gladly leave to the past, made by governments very far from that of today - and which lays its foundations on a ground never beaten before. In the last century the epochal economic crises have always led to enormous upheavals, with the most hateful consequences. Today, however, there is a substantial difference from the past. Historically, the pandemics involved almost exclusively the demographic aspect of a population: so many human losses resulted in an important demographic decline. But the economic crisis was not a direct consequence of it, but it existed. If we think of what is considered the most serious pandemic in contemporary history, that of the Spanish flu of 1918, only in Italy did 600,000 victims. We also remember the great crisis of 1929. Both hit populations already experienced by the Great War, at a time when certainly the health system and scientific advances could not stand up in the embankment for the virus. What I want to highlight with this little excursus is that, compared to what the country has experienced in the past, today we live in parallel a great concern for our health and an even greater apprehension for our working and entrepreneurial fabric. The Government and Parliament are giving ample evidence of how the institutions can provide a flexible and modulated response, based on the indisputable needs that arise. This is because last March's needs are not the same as today. A far-sighted Executive is the one that deals with contingent problems and thinks in a time horizon that must necessarily collide with the natural end of the legislature; reforms in the very short and long term. With the decree cure Italy and, even more, with the decree I raise we have provided a network of social protection in order not to leave anyone behind and allow everyone to overcome these difficult months. This social shield will not set with the afternoons of August, but will continue throughout 2020. We cannot leave anything to chance and the recovery will not be taken for granted. For this reason, too, every reform intervention will contain a few key words, which are the same as we are used to seeing dead letters for a long time or, better, to see them relegated to the maximum as a topic of discussion in international conferences. I am talking about sustainable development, about the great plan of objectives drawn up at the United Nations. This is why we are aiming in the coming years at a great revival of public investment and investing where in past legislation it had cut itself with horizontal scissors. Education and research will be the centerpiece around which to think of a modern Italy. Of course, we will aim to relaunch our major driving sectors (tourism, car, components, steel, entertainment and construction) and we will work not only to lift them up, but also to project them towards the future, to allow their development and prosperity not for a few years, but for the coming decades. We have plans to improve equity and social inclusion and we intend to modernise the administration of justice to make it more efficient. Let me say, however, that there can be no sustainability and social equity without a further and more radical reduction in the high tax wedge (average of 48% of labour costs) and without the realization of a fight against evasion theorized by many. We have already intervened in the budget law by allocating a fund of 3 billion for 2020 and 5 billion from 2021, to increase the net amount that workers will receive in pay envelope without any additional burden for the employer. The less costly the contracts for businesses, the sooner the labour market will be restored, the less taxes workers will have to pay on their wages and the more consumption will increase. With a measured fight against cash and tighter controls we will force the emergence of those billions of undeclared assets that currently benefit illegally only in a few, to the detriment of the most. With a view to sustainable development, the measures planned for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for individual professionals and firms, are crucial. [[Applause.]] Consider the freezing of loan instalments, current account credit lines and outstanding fees, as well as the strengthening of the guarantee fund. To date, funding for small and medium-sized enterprises amounts to some 40 billion, compared with 700,000 applications. In conclusion, this government can go to history or it can be remembered for doing things in half. Turning back to the reform plan, I am looking at the first hypothesis and I am sure it will happen. [[Applause.]] I conclude by saying that I wish everyone a good job. This second half of the legislature will totally be a new beginning for all citizens and for Italy as a whole. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u112	The joint debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that the Presidency has received, on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, motions for resolutions nos. 100, presented by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and 101, presented by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. The Presidency has also received motions for resolutions nos. 1, presented by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and 2, presented by Senators Ciriani, Romeo and Bernini. The lyrics are in distribution. The rapporteurs, Mr Conzatti and Mr Presutto, do not intend to speak in response. I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u113	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the speeches made by all my fellow Members, both by majority and by opposition, who obviously, depending on their political affiliation, have expressed their contribution and their position. In all the speeches I see a common denominator, regardless of the final outcome of the statements: everyone has stated the great difficulties in the country (from school to small, medium and large enterprises, to public administration, to the question of justice and women). Many arguments have been raised, of which I have taken note and I will take into account why they are important. Of course, I would first like to say to the Minister here - for whom I thank him - and to the Deputy Minister whom I expected from this majority, who is now preparing for the third budgetary deviation of some 25 billion, who will form a total of 100 billion in addition to the deficit, not to be able to feel them alone, since the benches of the House are empty (as always, we will say). It's not okay, because you're so keen on defending your documents that you should have all your fellow travelers next to you, who share with you what you're going to vote on today. Ask the Italians for resistance and resilience, words to which is titled the document on which you enter and which you consider articulated, compact and having a logic. None of you, however, was present today, to discuss together: there was the rapporteur, whom I thank, but no one else. This is an obvious fact that Italians must know. To them, who listen to us, I am sending a message: you are not interested in anything other than taking this document forward; this House will only be filled when you have to vote, so that the text passes, and it will be filled tomorrow, when you have to send Salvini to trial. But when we have to distract 25 billion from the budget, there is no one, there is a vacuum! [[Applause.]] We have an empty theater. [[Comments.]] Come on, fellow Pirro, you've got a mask! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the President, Senator Faggi, and don't listen to her. (L-SP-PSd'Az). I am not listening to you, Mr President: it is not worth it. [[Applause. Comments.]] I continue to go on in this discussion which would have been nice for all of you to hear: I am referring in particular to Senator Bagnai, who called for attention to be paid to the deviation, because all forms of loan coming from the European Union will obviously have a privileged state of credit management. We hope that everyone has understood what this means: they will be the first to which we will have to return them. Perhaps you would have heard the intervention of Senator Urso, who said he was critical of the deviation, because the 80 billion of earlier were badly employed, and he didn't say so, but Istat. Perhaps you would also have heard the intervention of Senator Gallone, who referred to an open letter from the entire centre-right, in which proposals were made - here we are talking about collaboration: "collaborate, we are all together" - it is said - but not an amendment has been taken into consideration. Even yesterday, President Conte said that we must cooperate. What collaboration? When we are there, you are not there; when we are tabling the amendments, you do not approve them. But what kind of collaboration would that be? The word collaboration means being together and talking to each other. [[Applause]] Half of the MPs are not there and they can't hear me. Senator Ferrero also made a good point of listening, made the list of audits and remembered that they are important. Even listening to the auditions, we were on our own. We've been a few, both in the House and in the Senate. Senator Ferrero said that if you don't want to listen to us, you could listen to them; don't listen to your task forces because in this way we are really in debt to future generations. Even Senator Paragon has come to say that there is a frightening banking stress. Do you realize that? D'Alfonso, who is a well-known jurist, also found the same thing that Senator Zanda found at the beginning. Something's wrong. In order to do what we are about to achieve, we should have a public administration that works, and not a plastered administration like ours where, when you ask for an identity card, if it's okay it takes five days, and in smart working they don't give it; but even if they take you, there is no problem. Even Senator Cantù made a very beautiful examination, pinning on only four pages the issue of health care, and pointed her finger on an aspect on which we were also accused, of being superficial. She is a senator who has a very important past in health care, so her indications are very important. I have listened to everyone, so I hear that it has been clearly reported several times that this document, given the deviation of another 25 billion, will do nothing but in debt to our Italy. We will, of course, leave many debts to future generations. It upsets me to feel that we cannot understand the essence of the PNR or the essence of the deviation. And that worries me, because I wonder if I listened and read. It is heavy to read all these considerations that are often redundant and repetitive, but they have technical content and with the help of officials, if you are not completely able, you can actually have the confidence of where we are going. I have also heard that it is not about money and that the important thing now is to present the projects. In my house they have always said that, before making any choice, you must know how much you have to spend or how much you can spend, otherwise you cannot proceed. If you can't buy, you can't buy. It is a small rule: as they say in my house, it is the accounts of the servant, which today we have to do because it is the accounts of the Italians, who struggle to put together lunch and dinner. And we forget that, because we're not all here. We're not sitting in our seats, but we'll take the salary while the people at home don't take it even if they go to work. That's the difference! [[Applause]] It will not matter to anyone, then, to cut the number of Members. We must also look at the quality of those who are seated. [[Applause]] I should like to finish by saying quite rightly that my time is running out, because everything can be extended but not the time: we have extended the state of emergency, we have extended the deficit, we have extended everything, but the time available to the Beechs is ending. The world breaks everyone, but only some become stronger, where they have been broken. Let me conclude with a brief examination of the term resilience. This term is repeated a couple of times in the important documents: the largest, the next generation EU, i.e. the device for recovery and resilience, has an endowment of 672 billion and is connected to the European cycle, for which it is important; the other document in which the resistive adjective stands out is the so-called fast Italy, Italy resists, resilient plans the future, new strategies for transport, logistics and infrastructure. This is already another point that has been touched very little, because it is really a thorn in the side; we want to redo the procurement code, review the infrastructure system of the railways and everything, but we have a year... PRESIDENT. Please come to the conclusion. Mr Faggi, minority rapporteur. Yeah, I'm getting to the conclusion, but it's important... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't doubt it, but go to the conclusion. Mr Faggi, minority rapporteur. He'll yell at me, but he will. I have to say it. We have a year... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u114	Wait, Senator. They're retrieving her microphone for the second or third minute of recovery.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u115	Mr Faggi, minority rapporteur. To be honest, speaking of resilience I quote a phrase by Pietro Trabucchi, a psychologist (in fact it is a word found in psychology). When life overthrows our boat, some drown, others struggle hard to get up there. The ancients recognized the gesture of trying to go back on the boats reversed with the verb resalio, perhaps the name of the quality of those who never lose hope and continue to fight against the adversities, the resilience derives from here. This psychological concept can also be applied to society. There are trials...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u116	We also thank you for this explanation and I believe that you can conclude your speech. He spoke three minutes longer than he agreed. There are times. I didn't make them up. It is respect for others who have spoken before and will speak later. I let her finish her explanation of the term resilience. [[Comments of Senator Faggi.]] I am sorry to speak twice to the Group itself, but you have ten minutes and you have spoken thirteen minutes; you check and you will see. I call the Government representative, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, and to indicate which motion for a resolution on the National Reform Programme 2020 he intends to accept. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u117	Mr President, as far as the report is concerned, the Government gives a favourable opinion on motion for a resolution No 100, first signed by Mr Perilli, and against the motion for a resolution No 101. As regards PNR 2020, the Government accepts Resolution No 1, first signed by Perilli, and does not therefore accept Resolution No 2. 16.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u118	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it is now in force. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Gualtieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I have listened carefully to the debate that has taken place in this House today, and I am here, in my reply, to support the reasons why the Government has asked Parliament to authorise a third budgetary deviation, and to explain the lines of the National Reform Programme (NRP). Deviation and PNR represent well the two dimensions of the effort that the Government is making, on the one hand, to measure itself with the most immediate economic effects of the pandemic and, on the other hand, to define the lines of a broader reform action, capable of making the recovery lasting and sustainable. The resources authorised by Parliament so far have enabled extraordinary measures to be taken, in terms of scale and scope, which, as we know, are among the largest of those carried out at international level. Overall, even with the deviation for which we are asking for authorisation today, we are talking about 6 percentage points of GDP of higher debt. This is an enormous effort, but made necessary by the scale of the crisis, to support workers, businesses and families, hit hard by the pandemic. Senator Zanda also asked for a breakdown of this considerable amount in the various measures, which I do not of course recall here on time. However, if we wanted to group them by macro-areas, we could say that, given the government's orientation, which naturally intends to confront Parliament at the next decree-law, of these 100 billion euros, about 35 billion have gone and will go for the work and the social shock absorbers, more than 40 billion for the enterprises, more than 12 billion for the regions and the territorial authorities and more than 11 billion for health, school and social services. It is a composition of the intervention, which, although Italy was among the first countries to meet this completely new challenge - not only on the issue of closures, but also on the topic of economic interventions - is very broadly in line with the type of interventions that most countries have carried out. There is also broad agreement between international and national analysts on these measures, which are naturally complemented by substantial measures to support liquidity, which in this case count in part as a deficit and partly as a net balance to be financed and which - I would like to remind you - have allowed the moratorium on loans and loans worth more than € 292 billion and guaranteed loans, already granted, worth more than € 70 billion. These measures, overall, as all international and national analysts point out, have been decisive in limiting the fall in production, in safeguarding the country's productive capacity and employment, in attenuating the economic impact of the crisis, particularly on the most fragile and less well-off families (there are very educational studies in this regard) and in laying the foundations of an economic recovery, which is already in place, although, of course, for 2020 it will not be able to offset the extent of the fall in GDP, which has been determined in the most difficult months, particularly those of closure, lockdown and interruption of production activities. The most recent economic data indicate that our economy has begun to rise from the minimum recorded in the two months of March and April. In May industrial and construction production, exports and retail sales rebounded sharply, as many sectors of activity have reopened and social distancing measures have been relaxed; we estimate that the recovery continued in June and July. Of course, as I said, the magnitude of the fall in GDP in March and April was such that the second quarter will average a sharp fall in gross domestic product, but followed by an equally marked rebound in the third quarter, which we expect is almost 15% compared to the previous one. Italy has passed the most acute stage of the infection and the measures to contain the epidemic have been effective in significantly reducing the incidence of the virus; also this is widely recognized at international level. The sacrifices and the commitment of the citizens have allowed to bring the number of positives below the level that is recorded in most of the countries most affected by the epidemic; but it is and remains essential that we continue to observe the precautionary measures aimed at containing the contagion and not to frustrate the efforts undertaken so far. It is therefore good that everyone avoids pretentious and irresponsible polemics. However, given that the economic context is still strongly affected by the phase of lockdown and weak demand, both domestic and above all foreign, it is necessary to continue with the measures to support the economy, prolonging and strengthening some of those already in force and, at the same time, gradually making them more selective and accompanying them more and more with interventions aimed at supporting growth and employment. For this reason, the Government has presented to Parliament the new report, according to the law, with which it requests authorisation, to finance these new measures, to resort to debt, including the greater interest payable for the financing of public debt, of 25 billion euros for the year 2020, of 6,1 billion for the year 2021, of 1 billion for the year 2022, of 6,2 billion for the year 2023, of 5 billion for the year 2024, of 3,3 billion for the year 2025 and of 1,7 billion from the year 2026. These deviations, also for the years after 2020, are an integral part of the measures that we intend to take and which relate in particular to the support and continuation of measures on liquidity and the remodulation of certain tax deadlines. The increased resources that we are asking you for permission to use will be used to take priority action on employment, tax and liquidity, territorial authorities, education and other general and sectoral measures to support growth. Work is being studied to provide continuity to the measures currently in force and at the same time, as I said, to modulate them more effectively and selectively. In particular, we intend to extend the Covid fund by differentiating its mechanisms, so as to foresee a contribution from companies that have not suffered significant losses, as is the case in other European countries. There will also be a temporary derogation from the rules on time contracts and an extension of simplified procedures for the use of smart working in the private sector. Work is also under way to promote the re-starting of permanent recruitment and premium decontribution mechanisms that can encourage companies, where possible, to get workers out of the integration fund. It will also continue its liquidity support activity which, in addition to covering the banking and financial channel, will be able to rely on fiscal measures. In this respect, we intend to reprogram the deadlines for tax and contribution payments suspended in the emergency phase, providing for the possibility of instalments of tax debt over a defined time horizon in order to significantly reduce the burden that would otherwise be borne by taxpayers who have been in difficulty, in particular during the hard months of lockdown. With the same objective, the deadlines for the recovery of collection, currently set at 31 August, will be further deferred and the moratorium on loans and loans due in September will be extended. In order to ensure the regularity of public action at all levels, territorial authorities will continue to be supported. I remember in fact that, recognizing its fundamental role, the Government has already intervened in the previous decree-laws to guarantee significant resources in support of the Regions, the Municipalities, the Provinces and the Metropolitan Cities and, as promised, in the next decree-law we will integrate these resources further strengthening the funds for the fundamental functions, the ristori for the losses also for example of the residence tax and also the resources for the investments. The table with the Regions has been concluded positively and it is also in the process of finalization that relative to the quantification of the resources for the Municipalities. Moreover, on the initiative of the Government, in the next decree-law, in addition to the increase of the resources to refresh of the losses of revenues, will be previewed resources for investments for approximately 5,5 billion euros. Part of the resources found with the deviation will then be allocated to support for growth and in particular for certain specific sectors. In line with Parliament' s commitment, interventions for automotive and tourism will be adopted, alongside a further package of measures to support recovery. Finally, we will allocate a significant share of the resources to the school, to facilitate the start of the new school year in safe conditions. What I have just outlined is only a general outline of the measure to be adopted next week, also on the basis of a constructive discussion with Parliament. In this respect, it seems to me from this debate, from the media, from the motions for resolutions tabled, that the opposition's willingness to vote on this deviation is conditional on certain requests for method and merit on taxation, employment and pensions. First of all, I would like to say that many of the measures I have anticipated come from a dialogue with Parliament and the opposition, as well as representatives of regions and local authorities, of majority and opposition. The necessary refreshment of the lack of income for Regions, Municipalities, Metropolitan Cities and Provinces is expected by mayors and presidents of all parties and I believe that no one in this House wants to assume the responsibility of not allowing them to approve the budgets or to guarantee their balance. [[Applause]] Automotive and tourism interventions have been urged as urgent by all forces, majority and opposition, as well as the extension of the moratorium on bank loans and interventions - specific but important - such as those on earthquake areas. With regard to the specific issues that have been raised, I can certainly reiterate that the Government will ensure the resources necessary for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling on the adjustment of disability pensions and that we intend, as I have just said, to provide contributory incentives for employment at work. On the tax it is necessary to take into account the burdens of the proposed interventions with respect to the dimension of the deviation and therefore, in this case, the availability is that to an in-depth comparison, also with the opposition, on the specific contents of the decree. I now come to the National Reform Programme. Compared to the past, this is a PNR with some innovations that naturally concern timing and content. As you know, the government chose not to approve the PNR along with the DEF in April, when the country was in full lockdown and the level of uncertainty about the evolution of the pandemic and the economic crisis was highest. It has been chosen to wait to be able to issue a document of greater information and strategic importance. This choice, initially criticized by some, I believe now appears to everyone as useful and appropriate. In fact, Parliament has a more up-to-date document than that submitted by the other Member States of the European Union, in which they are defined - this is the only case of the Italian document - also the basic and general lines (of course not specifically) of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to be presented next autumn. I believe it is an important fact, also with regard to the relationship with Parliament, that the Government has a PNR which already indicates and allows for a first element of discussion. I must say, moreover, that in the motion for a resolution which I have read and on which the Government is in favour there are very precise and precise indications which not only confirm, but enrich what is indicated in the PNR. This debate was useful and appropriate. Of course, this parliamentary debate on PNR (i.e. on the basic lines of Italy's recovery plan programme) is just an opening, a start to debate. The Government has started the technical and political work of preparing the Plan. Just yesterday we gathered the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs (CIAE) and we started a work that will be very intense and complex and it is firm intention of the Government to have a constant dialogue with Parliament on the recovery plan of Italy. The Government respects the forms and modalities that Parliament will choose to give itself to interloquire with the Executive with respect to the preparation of this plan, which constitutes a unique and unrepeatable historical opportunity for our Country and respect to which it is good that there is the widest possible involvement not only of Parliament, but of all the social, economic, cultural, intellectual and territorial autonomous forces of the Country. Our choices will then be inspired by reasonableness, motivated by determination and guided by listening. Obviously, both in the DEF Update Note and in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, we will also take into account - as I said - the guidelines contained in the resolution that Parliament will want to approve today. Many speakers stressed the importance of the agreement reached at the last European Council in Brussels and indeed it is difficult to underestimate the extent of what has happened. This is a historic achievement for Italy, but first of all for Europe. It is an agreement in which the Government has believed from the beginning, to the beginning alone, for the realization of which the Government has fought, competing with others to obtain a result that can allow a qualitative leap not only in the response to the unprecedented economic crisis determined by Covid, but also to the great challenge of Europe to strengthen its ability to have an economic policy (and not only a currency and a market) and to fully exploit its extraordinary opportunities to be protagonist of the challenges of the new world. I am referring to the challenges of globalisation, sustainability and innovation, which must see Europe working together, on the basis of the Community method and the resources it can activate. And this is what is happening with this plan, which sees, precisely, the issuance of European debt securities to finance common policies, thus giving rise to the possibility of action that even the temporary suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact and the approval of the temporary framework for State aid had given, but, if not supported by the activation of common policies and resources, would have risked then, on the basis of the difference in the fiscal space of the different countries, not to support and feed convergence but rather to see an increase in divergences. This is therefore a new perspective that opens up both in the response to the crisis and in the development of the integration process, which sees Europe making choices different from those that have proved insufficient, made during the previous crisis. Then the intergovernmental method prevailed over the Community method and the choice was made, after a first fiscal response - precisely because of the limits of solidarity and common vision - to support and start a period of policies based on the so-called austerity, which produced that second recession and all the economic, social and political events that we know very well. It is therefore an extraordinary opportunity for Europe and, of course, it is a unique opportunity for Italy, which achieves a result, in terms of resource allocation, as is well known, very positive and even better than the initial proposal put forward by the Commission. We know the figures; we have evoked them, we do not need to repeat them. It is good to know that, even from the point of view of governance, the Government has managed to safeguard the centrality of the Community method, therefore the role of the Commission, and has avoided the risk of unanimity of vetoes and procedures, which will not be there. It is now crucial to work together to present an appropriate recovery and resilience plan, which not only supports recovery but can tackle the underlying problems of Italy: low growth, reduced public and private investment, limited resources for key sectors such as research, training and education. It will be a plan with precise and very detailed objectives, which we want to be among the first to present in the autumn to give certainty to economic operators and to work immediately together with the revival of the Italian economy. As I said, the basic lines of this plan are indicated in the National Reform Programme, where we see precisely the profile of a strategy that combines support for the economy in the context of the crisis caused by the pandemic with interventions to unlock the country's growth within the framework that is the green and the European innovation deal that Italy has helped put at the center of the policies of the Union. The Government intends to reactivate as quickly as possible a sustained, lasting and inclusive recovery, able to overcome those bottlenecks that have so far limited the capacity for expansion of our economic system. The country's innovation and modernisation will benefit primarily from increased public and private investment. As far as public investment is concerned, the objective is to increase its share of GDP by at least one percentage point compared to the levels of 2019, already increased compared to the previous levels, which in 2019 were 2.3%, so the objective is to permanently bring public investment above 3% of GDP. Moreover, over the next three years the objective is to increase public expenditure on research and development by at least 0.4 percentage points of GDP. Infrastructure interventions will be inspired by the fast-paced Italy plan, which aims to promote the development of an integrated, effective and efficient infrastructure system, capable of boosting the competitiveness of companies, increasing the quality of life of citizens, reducing territorial and social gaps and effectively responding to the challenges of sustainability. Environmental sustainability, through the reduction of emissions and the pursuit of the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, and social neutrality are a central element of this action, also because it can increase the resilience of the territory. Specific actions will then be aimed at urban regeneration and improving the stock of social infrastructure such as kindergartens and hospitals. In the field of health, we will build on the experience of these months, strengthening the system structurally, in particular in the direction of technological innovation and the development of territorial assistance. Finally, important resources will be dedicated to the digitisation of the country and public administration, with a view to greater efficiency, productivity and improvement of the quality of services offered to citizens. Together with the increase in public investment, the recovery of private investment will continue and will also be strengthened, which must also be permanently and significantly above the current level. Moreover, the country, as we know, has a gap of investments and a surplus of private savings that exports in part, there is therefore the effort - even with appropriate interventions of financial regulation, some of which have also been activated in the previous measures of the Government, also thanks to intense work of the majority and a dialogue with the opposition, as an important complement - to channel this savings towards private investments. The objective is to implement interventions aimed at promoting the consolidation of the company's assets, increasing investment in the real economy, promoting dimensional growth, encouraging the transfer or reorganization in Italy of activities carried out abroad and to achieve these objectives will be reviewed and strengthened the system of incentives for investments, innovation and capitalisation along the lines of the transition program 4.0, which will be strengthened and made permanent. Another central priority is the reduction of the growth and well-being gap between the South and the country's internal areas and the most dynamic part. It is a crucial, inescapable theme. If this gap is not addressed, Italy will never be able to reach the levels of growth, competitiveness and productivity of other more advanced countries. Therefore, also on the basis of the 2030 South Development and Cohesion Plan for Italy, the theme of the Mezzogiorno and the internal areas will be one of the qualifying points and one of the priorities of the reform and relaunch strategy and of the recovery and resilience plan of Italy. Because Italy starts again only if it starts again all together. In line with the objective of improving productivity and increasing inclusiveness, education and training policies will be strengthened. Moreover, I recall that, already in the previous decree I raise, one of the most significant investments has been made on university and research since next year. In addition, structural measures will be developed to relaunch important production sectors and sectors such as health, pharmaceuticals, tourism, transport, construction, production, storage and distribution of energy, advanced mechanics and robotics, steel industry, automotive and components, and the cultural industry. The recovery and resilience plan will show in detail the lines of action, the stages of their development and the resources allocated to each purpose. It is a crucial and historical challenge for our country, which will require to use, efficiently, the huge resources allocated to change our production system and leave behind the criticalities that have marked the recent past (and not only recent). Important reforms will also be associated with these interventions, aimed, among other things, at improving the confidence in the country and its ability to attract capital and businesses. This spirit is already present in the decree-simplification law, now before Parliament, which intervenes on four areas that were highly critical (public building contracts, procedural simplifications and responsibility, digital administration, enterprise, environment and green economy). Another fundamental area of reform: the Government intends to proceed to a broad framework of tax reform, which, with a careful policy of lowering the tax burden, inspired by the principle of tax progressiveness and reduction of tax gap, helps to ensure greater equity and efficiency of the tax levy. At the same time, in line with the green approach of the Government and the European Commission, the system of environmental taxes and subsidies harmful to the environment will be revised to stimulate the ecological transition. Within this framework, of course, the action to combat tax and tax evasion will continue and will be relaunched, which is crucial in order to ensure, in addition to greater equity, healthy and fair competition between businesses and better functioning markets. Within this framework, action to encourage electronic payments will continue and be strengthened. Tax reform is important. Moreover, just yesterday a first block of this reform has become operational, because the reform has already begun and I would like to remind you that the intervention on the wedge that the Government has carried out, not only seems timely in a cyclical phase like this, but is a first important signal of a concrete reduction in the tax burden on millions of workers. Action will also be needed with regard to VAT consignments. In particular, we are thinking about a substantial rewriting of the schedule of tax payments, which exceeds the mechanism of payments and balances, in order to move towards a system based on the certainty of compliance times and on a dilution during the year of the amounts to be paid, calculated on the basis of what was actually collected. The completion of the reform of the civil and criminal process will then contribute to the improvement of the investment climate and competitiveness. Although the European resources that will become available are huge, financial compatibility should not be overlooked. Starting from the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document, the Government will therefore develop a strategy for returning from high public debt, which will aim at much higher economic growth than in the past and set adequate and sustainable targets for budgetary balances, to be achieved and maintained over time, when we begin to reap the benefits of what we are about to start. I conclude this long speech (but the two issues under discussion were considerable). Italy has been able to react quickly to a very hard test, which has had a very strong impact on our system. Gradually we are overcoming this difficult situation, which leaves an extraordinary patrimony of commitment and a sense of community, on which we must base ourselves in order to restart, in a spirit of collaboration, the recovery. We are facing a challenging challenge, a unique and historic opportunity and I am sure that, with the commitment of everyone and respecting their respective roles, we will be able to seize it together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u120	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u123	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, exceptional situations require exceptional solutions and no one can deny that Covid-19 is one of the most dramatic events of recent decades. That is why we are called, for the third time in a few months, to decide on a budgetary deviation. Obviously it is not easy, in a country already overwhelmed by debts and paying 178 million euros of interest rates per day, to decide another 25 billion debt, thus bringing the deficit related to the Covid-19 to 100 billion. In addition, we still do not know how the Government intends to distribute these resources in the so-called August Decree, between subsidies, tax cuts and investments. It will be important to introduce mechanisms that avoid a rainy distribution of resources, so that they really go to those who need them and not, for example, to those companies that have not suffered any decline in turnover and therefore do not need the integration fund. It is therefore not a good idea for the White Semester of the tax proposed by the oppositions. Apart from the fact that it would be a financially unsustainable initiative, there are businesses and people who have no difficulty paying taxes. These today must be asked for a step of responsibility, honoring their slopes to allow the state to deal with those who really can't. Of course, the precise identification of these categories also depends very much on the capacity of the bureaucratic machine and a solution must be found on this point, as we must find a fair balance between subsidies and incentives for the labour market. It is certainly necessary to continue to finance the integration fund which, together with the blocking of redundancies, has saved so many jobs; but it is also necessary to encourage companies to call on workers, through a full reduction of labour costs, alternative to the integration fund. More flexibility must be ensured in the labour market, allowing the extension of time contracts and re-introduction of vouchers for sectors with seasonal declines, such as tourism and agriculture. We need to consolidate funds and finance for businesses, starting with those sectors that see recovery further away, such as catering and tourism, perhaps extending ecobonus to 110% to tourist facilities, as the hoteliers are asking. Local authorities and self-governments should be given the right to provide their services and services properly. Well also, as we read in the National Reform Programme, the renewed commitment to combating tax evasion through the consolidation of traceable payments. A goal that must then unite everyone is an ordinary reopening of schools and kindergartens. School is not one of the many problems on the table; school is the problem because our children are the priority for each country and then it is necessary to guarantee parents and, in particular, women the opportunity to devote themselves to their work. Especially in the most acute phases of lockdown, women have added invisible and unpaid work to smart working, in which they have taken the place of school staff, from meals to lessons for their children. Now it is time for women's work to be encouraged and for adequate investment to be made to ensure the reconciliation of living and working time. Let us not forget that economic independence is the main means of preventing violence, which almost always passes from a form of material dependence. Mr Gualtieri, we really hope that this is the last deviation voted by Parliament because it would mean that the situation has improved or that, in the meantime, we have been able to attract European resources or that, perhaps, we have overcome the prejudice over the ESM, finally making a substantive analysis of the use of these resources. We also hope that in the coming weeks the Government will already present the first projects to activate the recovery fund. For this great task we will not tire of asking for a sense of responsibility even to those who in these hours even deny that there has been a pandemic or to say that the government is looking for a second wave for its own gain. Let us leave aside this toxic propaganda and so low a link and let us all commit ourselves because this is the time of responsibility. Therefore, I would like to announce the Group's vote in favour of the Budgetary Deviation and the National Reform Programme. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u126	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, before I go into my speech, which will obviously be political in nature as an explanation of vote, I wanted to take up the words of the Minister, who has just announced to us some new things and to make some comments. Minister, in four months we are voting for a new budgetary deviation, as many of my colleagues have already said, which is worth EUR 25 billion. Added to 75 of the past months, they lead us to face a game that is worth 100 billion euros. These are debts that future generations will have to pay, so our children and probably our grandchildren will also have to pay. Minister, Brothers of Italy has a very clear position and you know it because we have faced you several times and we have always told you so. We have never been opposed to raising the deficit, but we have always placed only one condition and, that is, that the resources were invested also in the revival of the economic, productive and social system of our country. The reference is to what you have just told us, namely, to supporting businesses, families and active labour policies. Unfortunately, I must tell you that we are here today against you, Minister, and I also explain why we are biased. We have already agreed to EUR 75 billion in the previous three months, as I mentioned earlier. You, however, have managed in part to squander these very important resources which Parliament has made available to you. I would like to remind you, Minister, of the famous tax credit for the purchase of scooters; the advice to the Ministry of you and to that of your colleague Patuanelli; and also the purchase of air tickets in business class for the Expo in Dubai, which, thanks to an amendment by Brothers of Italy and Giorgia Meloni, has been eliminated. What confidence could we have, in your opinion, Minister, after you have wasted a substantial part of this 75 billion? You see, in fact, just now with this further deviation - which we would share, if it were true what you say - you announced to strengthen the integration fund and a few minutes ago you said to protect the liquidity of companies, to reprogram fiscal deadlines, to support companies and productive sectors most affected by the crisis; you spoke of support to local authorities. If this Government really did everything you anticipated, we would certainly be at your side, Minister, you can be sure of that. The problem is that the experiences of this recent past make us fear that you will do nothing of everything that has just listed us. We fear that what he says is just roboating announcements, which he has already made more than once, because alongside these objectives and those he gloriously lists in the National Reform Programme there is no indication of details or amounts to allocate. I just want to remind you when, a few minutes ago, you, Minister, said that next week there will be the adoption of the measure. The last time I heard you say that, the measure was approved a month after you announced it. [[Applause.]] For this reason and for many others, we continue not to trust what he says, on the contrary, I will tell you more: given the inability you have demonstrated in recent months, when, in the face of the most serious economic crisis in the country, you have squandered the resources that Parliament has made available to you, we are even concerned that you can have an additional 25 billion euros to manage in this country, which, together with the more than 200 that will come next year, will lead to a mass of money that I do not know if you will be able to direct first and then manage. Despite this, we have acknowledged to President Conte that he has fought against the bullies of the Dutch Government (it must be acknowledged that our leader Giorgia Meloni was the first to do so). We have cheered for this government and certainly not for the Netherlands, but we also know very well that, in reverse parts, if instead of this there had been a center-right government, who today supports President Conte would have cheered for everything to go the wrong way. We of Brothers of Italy do not, however, because the country, the system and Italy come first of all. You and President Conte have definitely returned from the summit with less resources than you expected, and these are resources that, as we know, will arrive in the second half of 2021. He has returned from Europe, however, Minister, with something more precise: a nice plastic tax; that will have an immediate effect, which will weigh like a boulder on the Italian production sector and will obviously end up beating the final consumers. You see, Minister, throughout the emerging period, Brothers of Italy tried to help us, only that you did not want to listen to us and I remind you how many meetings and directing booths - in which I also participated personally - we did, that then they absolutely did not produce anything of what he had told us. The result is that all these proposals have been rejected and mowed. I want to remind you of some of the proposals made by our national leader, who have also been announced in part today in this open letter that the leaders of the center-right have made: we have spoken in summary of a series of answers on a few, but important areas of intervention (work, tax, support for companies and aid to Italians in difficulty). They are proposals that we have made in a clear way both on the decree cure Italy and on the decree relaunch and on which there has been no response from this Government. We asked to reward companies that do not use the Integration Fund by reducing the tax burden, we asked to suspend the Dignity Decree in order to give greater flexibility to recruitment, we asked to unify the fiscal years 2019-2020 to allow the compensation of any losses in this tax year and to postpone the deadline of payment of taxes to 30 June 2021, because I remind you that in these days the companies are liquidating taxes and must continue to pay because there are still no extensions of the tax deadlines; we asked to give non-refundable contributions to companies, holding 50% of the VAT collected in 2020 up to a maximum of 100,000 euros; we asked to establish a solidarity cheque for families and dependent children with funds taken from emergency income and citizenship income. We have made proposals, Minister, but until now, as I repeat, we have received no reply from you and your President. You see, President, the money is needed, this is undoubtedly needed, but it serves less than the cleverness that you have put on the field because Italy needs the resources that you ask us for and they are important. What's not needed is for you to play smart. In this House, there are those who act clearly for Italy and there are those who think of a country in Bengodi that can afford to waste resources. Everyone's future is at stake and not someone's bullying. We are asking today in this House to know point by point - and you have not been clear in this, Minister - how these EUR 25 billion will be spent. Enough with the vows of trust. Enough with the omnibus measures in which there is everything and more. We will no longer tolerate the repetition of what we have already seen. That, Minister, you must know. Unfortunately, until today we have seen man only in command, we have seen the openings of dialogue and the closures towards our ideas, so Brothers of Italy asks not only for the Parliament to be central but also for clarity and solutions for the country. With regard to what I am telling you, Minister, we should vote against this measure, given your attitude and also the attitude that you have had today that seems to be open but unfortunately it is not, because it has never been in the previous months. But by way of a sense of the State and a sense of responsibility, as I said, not towards this Government but towards a country that is exhausted, we will not do so, with the hope that this time you have the sense of the measure, involving minorities in the approval of the next decree-law, and that you approve a decree that does not allow even the slightest waste of public resources and that this time truly meets the needs of the country system. For these reasons the vote of Brothers of Italy will be abstaining due to the budgetary deviation and contrary to the National Programme of Reforms. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u129	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, it is useless to hide it: to approve a new budgetary deviation for an additional EUR 25 billion, as we are preparing to do today, means to mortgage our future, to mortgage the future of our children. It means increasing our public debt further and in a worrying way. That public debt that is already among the three largest in the world and that takes away, every year, huge resources that must be wasted in interest, when instead we should invest them in vital assets for the community such as schools, hospitals, high-speed trains, measures against hydrogeological failure. At the same time it is equally clear that all we can do is get into debt further because at this difficult stage there is a need like the air of liquidity, there is a need to prevent the economy from imploding and needing investment. The State of Suffering of the Country as a result of Coronavirus is such that it must necessarily allow a further deviation. Istat estimates a trend decline in industrial turnover of around 35% in the second half of the year and a reduced export of 29 percent, just that 'export, which instead could represent the flywheel of the recovery for our small and medium-sized enterprises, while it continues to increase the number of people who turn to Caritas to meet daily needs. In essence, the overall economic picture of our country presents critical issues that we are called to deal with immediately. That is why as Italy Viva we will vote in favour of today's measure on budgetary deviation, by voting in favour of both measures. With the resources that we are going to put on the field today, the Government intends to deal with a series of urgent needs still very much felt in the country. First of all, there is the need to extend the period in which it will be possible to use the integration fund, limiting it to companies most affected by the crisis and in actual economic difficulty; therefore, the need to encourage new recruitments, especially for an indefinite period, through the provision of specific incentives that push companies to strengthen their activities and then the need to relieve companies from paying taxes through the payment of payments. Clearly, we are still in particularly exceptional condition because of the serious economic consequences of coronavirus. That is why we must make every effort to make the best possible investment in the large amount of resources that we are preparing to use, even in view of the funds coming from Brussels. For at least seventy years no other government has been able to take advantage of so many economic means in such a short time. Mr Gualtieri is right, there is a historic opportunity, with which we can trigger growth and development, but achieving those structural reforms that Italy has needed for decades. It is therefore a courageous reform that is not only intended for electoral or propaganda purposes, but that is aimed at future generations; reforms that provide primarily for funds and strong investments in education, knowledge, university and research, with the modernization and digitisation of the world of work and public administration, with a radical acceleration of the times of justice, especially administrative, with a modern reform of taxes, which is also fairer and more easily accessible by the taxpayer, and with important investments in public health that allow to implement a territorial medicine close to the citizen, capable of exploiting the evolution of new technologies, including, for example, telemedicine. All this with a special attention to investments in South Italy. These reforms are capable of looking to tomorrow, with structural interventions that can increase the productivity of our country and produce that wealth that will help us to progressively decrease our public debt. We are faced with a decisive appointment for our country and we cannot afford to disregard it. For our part, as a force in the matter of Government, there is the willingness to confront, to collaborate, even with those who have different visions from ours and we hope to find on this ground the support of the oppositions, so as to write together a piece of the history of Italy in the coming decades. This is what we are talking about and we are proposing to do so here in this House, in the House and in the Senate, reaffirming the centrality of Parliament. We in Italy, Mr President, hope that this task will not be assigned to one or the other bicameral, the identification of how to use the different resources. We believe that it is up to Parliament, in conjunction with the Government, to prepare the recovery plan to be presented to the European Union in the autumn. We hope that a sound parliamentary debate will be held in this House, a debate in which oppositions will also be called upon to make their contribution with a constructive and non-prejudice attitude, because of the good of the country. The challenge facing us is to work far-sightedly and responsibly, constantly directing resources so as to combine the drive for investment, which is essential for growth, with the need to rebalance the state's accounts, because it should not be forgotten that budgetary constraints have not disappeared, have only been suspended and will therefore, in the medium term, come back into force with all the problems that this will entail. For this reason we must try to rekindle the country's economic engine, reactivateing those who drive it, i.e. the production - industrial, but not only - and the consumption of families, providing a stronger support to the companies and the productive sectors most affected, such as the automotive industry, the components, the steel industry, mechanics, construction, the tourist, cultural, entertainment, fashion and the agro-food sector, catering and Italian style. A very difficult challenge awaits us, because there is a need for a policy capable of triggering that process of trust and optimism, which already in the past made possible the reconstruction of our country, in the immediate post-war period, when Italy managed to become that economic and industrial power, which is still today at world level, despite the suffering of these months. Mr President, we therefore need a great deal of commitment from the political class, because the country is watching us and waiting for answers from us. We need work, willpower, seriousness, competence, sacrifice, but also the ability to return to dream and to make citizens dream, with enthusiasm, to make possible a great new reconstruction, for a fair and innovative country, that hastens to be the protagonist of the future, so that we can realize a new Italian miracle. On behalf of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. I voted in favour of both documents. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u132	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, representative of the Government, our vote on this further deviation will be in favour. This is a necessary choice, because we must continue to respond to some major issues, such as the issue of social shock absorbers, perhaps looking carefully at those who have still been excluded from an emerging response and taking those decisions, in relation to the integration fund, that avoid abuse. However, the integration fund is an essential tool and anyone who thinks that shock absorbers are a welfare expense is wrong. It is also important to schedule and postpone certain tax deadlines and to provide resources for local authorities, regions and schools. I repeat once again that we are concerned. I find the debate on wheelchairs quite ridiculous. I am more interested in understanding, and perhaps a hearing of the Minister of Education could be helpful, if and when we will hire teachers in an extraordinary way, who are a necessity to open schools. [[Applause]] I would like to address my colleagues in the opposition, who are rightly concerned, like us, about this problem: rather than dealing with propaganda issues, we should do a monitoring job, which is up to Parliament, to see if the things that are essential for school are going ahead. I would also like to stress that it is certainly essential to implement certain measures for tourism, which is one of the sectors that is paying the highest price. But I am no longer convinced at this point of the generalized support; perhaps it is time for us to think of a strategic instrument, an investment fund for accommodation, which allows our operators to think about the future seasons and to be in line with competition in the market. From the receptive point of view we have serious delays in relation to international competition. Then there is the extension of loans, which is very important. However, I would like to use the time I have left to make another argument. These resources are not helpful, but I agree that it is right to do - and I propose this to the Government - the point on the outcome of the resources we have invested, compared to what these resources have produced, also to allow us to have a somewhat richer debate in this House, so that we can understand where the problems are (and there are) and where we have given answers. The postponement of loans was a strategic response. As far as emergency intervention is concerned, we may not have done something strategic: too bureaucracy and too problematic access to resources. We must reason on this, because it makes no sense to invest resources without bringing them to the test. There's another point I'd like to propose to the government. Between emergency, strategy and vision there can no longer be two times, but there must be an installation. It is useful to have a debate in this House with the President-in-Office of the Council, in which proposals are made. The reform plan is in fact a broad scheme; it is acceptable but broad, too broad. We cannot do everything; we must identify priorities and explain them to the country, because we must give this country a perspective. From this point of view, if necessary, come to this House and we will finally be able to have a more serious debate between us. I have listened to the debate and I would like to raise a problem. There are a lot of resources that we owe, that we have to spend well; we have said so and you have said so many. But I have one problem: public administration, as it is, is not able to spend these resources. We need to know. [[Applause]] And then, from this point of view, we need to combine the emergency with the strategy. With regard to the simplification decree, or we decide to hire staff in the public administration to do the ORs and the management works or otherwise we will beat in the water. This is something to do; just look back. And this concerns, ladies and gentlemen, the whole hemicycle. If we look at how we have used the Structural Funds in the last two weeks, we realize that we have a problem. And this problem is dealt with by combining emergency and strategy; emergency interventions are good, but we must be able to say that in two years' time we will have structures able to manage the structural funds and the funds that come to us from the recovery fund. We must succeed in achieving this objective, otherwise the budget will never be positive, and we must also resolve strategic issues in order to avoid having the same debate whenever there is a measure. One of these strategic issues is tax reform. Our Group is against flat tax, because we think it is wrong and unfair. [[Applause]] , but we are to review the rates and to reward those who produce, who work and who produce work and value for our country. [[Applause]] This is a strategic debate: we will be divided, but we will all be richer if we manage to have this strategic debate. The second fundamental point concerns the relationship between the State and the market. Please don't tell us about the ideological issues of the twentieth century. There is a new problem that poses us the same story of the Covid and that is being placed all the western countries: a new relationship between the state and the market. We must say that this is decisive for an industrial policy. We have to define the role of Cassa depositi e loani, we can no longer go random, because from there a new industrial policy can come for new sectors, those of the great challenge of technological innovation; otherwise we will not succeed. Finally, there is the challenge that concerns - I mean because I probably won't get much support - the ruling class of this country and not just politics; of course it concerns the government in the first place, but the entire ruling class of this country must show up to this challenge. The discussion is still too asphyxiating, so it is important that the Government proposes a new ground for discussion, propose new lines of confrontation that allow us to establish new clashes on the merit of the future of this country. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also a challenge for the majority. We have to grow up. We have made a government, we are now in another phase; we have to say what the new model of development is for us; we have to say it and in this regard the old divisions, the old positionings are useless. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] We need a new public address to the country. What we have been, what we have said today makes less and less sense. We must take charge on our shoulders, questioning ourselves, the new idea of Italy and of the country, so that we will live up to it, otherwise we will not be. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u135	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, representatives of the Government, Parliament is today all called upon to vote with a vote that holds together, in a way that is as serious as paradigmatic, the present and the future of our country. Today we are called to take a choice that would be obvious, because it would be profoundly right, if everyone in a shared way had remained to the founding motive, to the main theme that led us so far, that is the extraordinary and dramatic event represented by the epidemic by Covid. And instead we find yet another find of an opposition leader who, just the day before yesterday, here in the Senate (and never like this time I think it would have been better the Papeete), has launched in yet another crusade, this time against the mask. Yet we all know where the epidemic tragically insisted and unleashed its most violent and dramatic attacks. So, if I may say, it makes even more species think that a Lombard of rank like Salvini denies the due respect precisely to the dead of his land, spreading, through an unbearable form of civil disobedience, a harmful message for the younger generations. But, as if all this weren't far too much, it raises the dose by squeezing the idea that the government, in order to support itself and not fall, spreads the virus of the Covid: something that should be inserted by law in the Protocols of the Savi of Zion, that is the first fake news in the history of the last century. But let's get back to today's reality, which is much more than just like fishing on social media. The reality is that we have faced, first as Western democracy, the effects of a pandemic that has proved to be a Hydra with many heads, infiltrating every space of our lives and forcing us to review behaviors, habits and lifestyles, even priorities. The reaction of Italy has certainly not been lacking and it is a mistake not to recognize it: to the citizens for the sacrifices to which they have been called, but also to the Government and Parliament for the timeliness and incisiveness of intervention. That is why today, in this House, we have the duty to continue to commit ourselves - once again, even more - to a path of security and revival of the country, continuing to assume the necessary responsibilities, which are much more challenging than a viral tweet or a shouted rally, in which the aspiring leaders of sovereignism take precedence - yes -. In fact, in the acute phase of the emergency we repeated as a mantra, accompanying the many measures put in place, that no one must remain alone and no one must remain behind: a warning that today, here, we are determined to continue to respect, especially after having obtained a historical sharing from Brussels just over a week ago. Not recognizing that result is not only a political error, but an evident demonstration of blindness and not wanting to look at the reality of things. Today, however, it is our duty to reiterate our commitment and our attention to a new path for the next generation of Italy and Europe, because, Mr President, never, like in this exceptional crisis, has it emerged as a fallacy of desire (perhaps, better, aspiration) for a splendid self-archist isolation. And the reason is not the lack of coherence between those who first draw the European Union as the prison of the people and then calls on the European Central Bank to buy state bonds. No, I'm not referring to this inconsistency. I am referring, if anything, to the ignoble attempt to deny the solidarity inclination that belongs to man and that this pandemic has made more evident: you do not save yourself, colleagues and colleagues, you never get up on your own. And then the deviation of the budget, which today rises to the considerable figure of 100 billion euros, through which it was possible to put in place decrees such as the care Italy, liquidity and relaunch, is also an expression of that necessary solidarity between men, which here becomes a solidarity between generations. Today, in fact, we make a pact over time, a bond of commitment that does not have to make us sleep at night, but that will serve to give our children a better, more inclusive, efficient and green country, but above all more united. [[Applause]] The rope, which we ask to be stretched is necessary to pull important pieces of country out of the quicksand of an economy now in recession and that can no longer wait. The sum of €25 billion will be used to support, with even more strength, local authorities and regions to accompany the recovery of important sectors such as tourism and automotive, to give continuity to social shock absorbers, but also - and this is a new fact - as support and incentives for recruitment, directing the measure towards a new phase. As Minister Gualtieri pointed out, even a short while ago, the extraordinary measures put in place have already allowed us to save 1.5 million jobs and it is therefore from the many available data that the order of the agenda comes. What worries us, in the etymological sense of the term, namely to occupy first, is the forecasts of the Svimez, which for 2021 sees the Mezzogiorno held back by a half recovery: +2.3% its GDP versus 5.4% in the North. In this sense, I therefore believe that the 2030 South Plan contained in the PNR will have to be put into effect, with instruments already available such as the enhanced clause of 34%, in order to achieve objectives that are already real in other parts of the country. It is necessary to bring the country together and break the risk of calciification between structural fragility and failure to recover pre-crisis levels 2008-2009 to the subsequent social and economic criticalities related to the Covid epidemic. Here, therefore, the cornerstones identified by the National Reform Programme (young people, ecology, innovation, connection) are fundamental to give breath back to this important piece of territory, the South, so weak, but still full of infinite potential. This set of actions is therefore going to become part of an economic policy that aims to help growth at a more sustained pace, in a context of resilience and sustainability but never neglecting the objective of achieving a progressive rebalancing of public finances. I say more. It is precisely within this objective that there is a need to put in place a tax reform that is genuinely based on the principle of progressiveness. At the hearing, Bankitalia reminded us that personal income tax has not only very high effective marginal rates, even in correspondence with low incomes, but above all rates that are not homogeneous between taxpayers with equal income because of the different tax treatment, which cannot find a solution - I agree with my colleague Errani - within the so much flagdierata, as unfair, flat tax. In addition, we must embrace the choice of following a sharp increase in public investment, with the aim of bringing them permanently above 3% of GDP or the desire to ensure the necessary liquidity for companies through further refinancing of the Central Guarantee Fund for SMEs. And again, restart the yards and follow up the completion of infrastructure works. Many initiatives therefore on the agenda but only one interest: the good of the country. Colleagues, may I have this engraved. The extension of the state of emergency approved yesterday has only one possible interpretation, not others: not only has a well defined term, not only defines specific territorial spaces, but serves to ensure that the Government does everything possible and everything necessary to ensure, for example, the resumption of the school. I wonder: can these elements ever be proper to a liberticide drift, as someone like Mr Meloni shouts? Are you really convinced that there is this liberticidal drift in prolonging an emergency state? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the final appeal which I make to the opposition in particular and with which I intend to conclude my speech. You are faced with a choice, if you accept the temptation to commit your present only to judge the past, you will assume the responsibility of losing the future, because never like today those who have the name "Italy" not only on the lips or on the sweatshirts but also in the heart know what must be done and it is for these reasons that I declare the favorable vote of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u138	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I do not understand why the Minister for Economic Affairs is not present, this is frankly disconcerting: he has left but I would say that it was instead the time to stay here, just as we are, since we are at an extremely important step for our country. [[Applause]] Already before the Covid emergency in 2019, Italy was at the last place in the European Union and among the last in the world in terms of the growth of internal wealth, with all the consequences that this determines on the individual companies and on the employment, but at the time being at the last place meant to grow less than the others or even to be zero growth. Now, with the decline that most of the world's economies are going through because of Covid's pandemic, being in the last place means a dramatic decline in domestic production and wealth; we are talking about an 11-12% decrease, which brings the gross domestic debt-to-GDP ratio to over 150 percent. The Minister - who I am now learning to be in the House - spoke to us with some optimism about a recovery in the third quarter of this year, but I remember that we are at the end of the first month of that third quarter and unfortunately we do not see these great signs of recovery. We hope that the Minister is right, but we believe that optimism should also be countered by realism. In this period already thousands of companies have closed down, other thousands are at risk of closure. According to Istat, 38 percent of Italian companies are at risk of default. We have understood from the outset the seriousness of this moment both from the health point of view - we made our proposals already at the end of January - and from the economic point of view. Obviously the forecasts were correct, and for this reason we have shown a great openness to the Government's proposals and to the demand for the deviation from the budgetary balance objective. In fact, since the first vote on the deviation from the balance we have asked that this be immediately of 100 billion euros, which is the objective to which the Government has then arrived with this last request that comes precisely to this figure. If we had done as we had said, there would have been more scope, more breathing, more chance of better strategic planning. In a sense of responsibility, we voted for the first two deviations and we were decisive in both cases, partly because many of our colleagues could not be here, because they were in the areas most affected by the pandemic. Now we get to vote on the third deviation. Compared to the substantial closure to all the proposals that we have seen in recent months, we have appreciated the words of Minister Gualtieri regarding the letter that the three leaders of the center-right have written. We appreciated that you mentioned it and we also appreciated some of your statements and openings on specific points that we have put, in particular on taxes, work and pensions, but we have remained to the verbs of the future, the generic commitments, in the face of the many measures that have already been taken and that are being approved in Parliament and therefore we do not feel that we are giving our approval following an experience that has not been positive. We have seen our proposals almost systematically rejected, except in rare cases, and we fear that this time too the needs of the various political forces that represent and support the Government prevail. We fear that attempts will prevail, in particular, to do mainly welfare shopping, to hunt for some reserve of vows real or imaginary to satisfy this now that partner of government. Instead, we have to do the opposite. We need to boost the country. It's crucial at this time. We are going through a moment, as has also been said by many representatives of the majority, decisive for the country. That is why we cannot exclude a part of the minority country - albeit not much in this House - which seems to be the majority in the country. The opposition's contribution to what we have to do for the country cannot be excluded, because the consequences of these choices do not last a few months or even a few years, but are fundamental. If we can really get the country started, then there will be possibilities for everyone; otherwise, they will be trouble for everyone, no matter who wins the next election. The point is Italy, it is not the elections or this or that majority. [[Applause]] For this reason, we shall not vote against the request for further deviation from the objectives of budgetary balance, but we will abstain in the hope that these commitments will be implemented. We will be willing, as we have always been, to go on the subject, to make our proposals, to support and never have attitudes that do not even resemble obstructionism. We are in order to carry out the measures, but we want them to be useful measures for Italy. The country cannot wait: it has already waited too long. While many, for example, are still waiting for the payment of the Integration Fund, many are waiting to have a result from the very complicated practices on ecobonus and other various bonuses. I am also thinking of those who demand that tourism operators advance money in favour of citizens; frankly, at this moment it is a completely crazy idea and in fact that bonus is not used. We want to make our contribution to achieving the objective and, for this reason, we will be ready to give a hand as we have given it up to now, even in a decisive way. The fact is that we have a different approach to yours (we are not at all on two different fronts). We are for that recipe that has had decisive results and has led to growth in all cases in which it has been applied. We're on the job. We focus on the great challenge of freedom, the creative abilities of Italians, workers and entrepreneurs, capable of extraordinary things if they are not stifled by bureaucracy, tax, the slowness of public administration, not to mention that of justice. By this majority, however, we see too much the tendency to want to distribute wealth before it has been produced and do nothing to produce wealth. We see for your part the dream - a dream that for us is a nightmare - of a state that controls every step, every word, every penny spent by citizens. [[Applause]] In essence, it is still the mindset of the five-year plans of the Soviet Union, but equipped with the technology of the 21st century. A technology that is an extraordinary opportunity, when used with constitutional guarantees to protect the freedoms of the citizen, but also a huge danger if it is used with the mindset of the idol state and the omnipotent state. We believe that a moratorium should be made at this time. The fight against tax evasion is good, but, at the moment, the accounting records risk shutting down companies; those companies that, in order to pay the folder we fear will arrive at them in a few weeks, risk closing definitively without paying either that or others. [[Applause]] Workers will lose their jobs and the integration fund, apart from the fact that it is late, certainly cannot be the solution to the lack of work. We think that Italy does not need the bonus to buy scooters, which are filling the First Aid of our country, but that it serves rather impulse to infrastructure. [[Applause]] That impulse was contained in the objective law put in place, at the time, by the Berlusconi Government, which produced investments and achievements for 74 billion euros: facts, not planned. We believe that such a law serves us today, adapted to today's needs. [[Applause]] We do not need goals that cannot be achieved by the simplification law that you have presented. There is no need to add bureaucracy to the bureaucracy. This is complication, it is not simplification. To abolish contracts under 5 million euros, i.e. 88 percent of our country's procurement, means to put out all those small and medium-sized companies that are the strength of our country. [[Applause]] To carry out public works you cannot invite only friends and this is what you have introduced. If contracts are too long and have too long procedures, it is necessary to speed up procedures and reform justice, in order to make it quick and reliable, not to abolish guarantee procedures. We think, for example, that the last thing the country needs is the nationalization of one of the largest companies in Italy, the company Autostrade, taking the money of savers to do this operation. We have seen the results that such operations have produced in Venezuela; we are not Venezuela, but we must not go in that direction either. We believe that more freedom should be given to hire, not to tighten up the labour market. It is necessary to re-introduce, at least during this period, vouchers; it is necessary to help families, who are the largest company in our country, who provide education, food, care, values [[Applause]] , and do not encourage non-work with the income of citizenship. Transferring resources from the income of citizenship to families would already be a great help in an impressive time of birth. We must not then bring to the closure the equal schools, putting in crisis even the state schools, that are not able, already now, to accommodate all the students of the state schools: if the 800,000-900,000 students of the private schools will arrive, where will they put? [[Call the president back.]] I'm done. We'll abstain. Our abstention is a hand aimed at the Italians, to help Italy and the Italians to recover. You too extend your hand to the Italians, understand their needs and also listen to the counsel you receive from the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u141	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, good members of the government, my fellow senators, senators, past the euphoria of the recovery fund, as if the money had already been obtained and spent, the government is actually aware that it does not have a euro in its cash and therefore must resort to a new budgetary deviation to extend some measures, such as the Cassa Integrazione, those related to tax deadlines and something about school and tourism. This is the truth: new debt for future generations, because this has always been said; however, it must be done not lightly and be very careful. Compared to what was also done in the past, with the vote on the two previous deviations, the 25 and 55 billion euro, we as a minority and as a centre-right had expressed a sense of responsibility, trying to make our contribution. However, in the end, the government decided to spend those resources as it wanted, without involving minorities at all. That is why, on this occasion, we made a supplementary proposal, contained in the resolution that we have tabled, on which the Government, however, expressed a contrary opinion. Some of the important measures proposed are: exemption for the second deposit Ires and Irpef with regard to certain categories; reduction of 30% of the coefficients of the calculation of the IMU; suspension of the decree of dignity with the re-introduction of vouchers; reduction to 50% of the contributions for those categories that have suffered a greater penalty in the economic crisis linked to the Covid-19 and of course the adjustment of disability pensions. The answer was no. Attention. We have asked to supplement the report and the measures you have envisaged with these objectives, which, however, we absolutely do not see, on which we have once again received a negative response. This testifies that collaboration is invoked only when it is convenient, but then, in fact, nothing happens at all. [[Applause]] In fact, the government wants to do it alone. Does the majority want to do it on their own? All right, you're gonna vote for the deviation yourself. That was the answer the coalition gave. [[Applause.]] As intelligent people as we are, our vote will be a clear abstention, linked to the fact that we share some of the measures provided for in the report. Can anyone from the Government, beyond the recovery fund, the ESM, the Sure, the EIB and the deviation, explain to me and to the Italians why the Commission has not attempted the path of the so-called irreducible loan, i.e. the issue of perpetual bonds? I am talking about what Austria has done, which has issued EUR 2 billion and then had requests ten times as much and which, among other things, are not classified as public debt and on which the interest rate is 0.88% and being below 1%, is quite competitive from this point of view. Why didn't the government try, since there was the possibility of issuing bonds from 60 to 100 billion euros, according to estimates by some experts like Bazoli, Tremonti and - why not? - also the president of Consob Savona, to take and put in the economy the savings of Italian families, as have other European countries? [[Applause.]] Why didn't you or didn't you try to do that? Is it because the savings of Italians want to tax it because there is some recommendation from the European Union? You must answer these questions before the Italians. [[Applause.]] We come to the National Reform Programme. Our abstention on the deviation has been motivated; on the National Reform Programme the vote will be against because there are certain elements that concern us. For example, on the subject of work - I am a member of the Senate Commission that deals with it - there is no word on how to regulate smart working in the future. Under conditions of urgency, smart working has been useful to continue the activities, but under normal conditions - I do not know if someone has heard the cry of alarm of many enterprises - unfortunately risks being penalized precisely for the economy, meanwhile because the Italians stay at home and consume less - and therefore do not help in that direction - and, secondly, because there are some public offices for which the smart working cannot continue to be allowed in the manner in which it was done. Think of the many permits from the building office that lie there. It already took Bible times before; now they do not arrive because staff are basically at home. This does not cost anything; it is enough simply to intervene in this direction. The same applies to the registry of municipalities. Even for the issue of identity cards we have thousands of unfinished requests. To all those who do particular battles on the subject of women, I would like to remind them that, according to a recent survey on women in smart working, it is argued that working from home has proved to be a further form of constraint between the domestic walls, where they have found themselves playing at the same time the roles of mothers, wives, workers and even teachers, in the face of a time of work that has expanded until the night hours in order to guarantee the same productivity as before. [[Applause.]] Therefore, be careful to encourage at all costs the smart working, which is associated a bit with the enhancement, written in the PNR, of distance teaching. Do you really believe that we will be able to bridge the gap with other schools in other European countries by strengthening distance learning? ( [[Applause]] ). In fact, the gap between rich people and poorer people will grow further. This is absolutely not the right way. Shall we now talk about the topic of work? I am very clear that I have not heard a word, especially from those in this House who had so strongly contested it, about revising the income of citizenship, that we in the League voted because it was presented to us as a measure for reintegration into work. Today, the Court of Auditors tells us that only 2% of those who have benefited from it have been launched into the world of work through employment centres. Well, dear government, if a law, in its feasibility and in its concreteness, proves not to work, you must also have the courage to change it! [[Applause.]] You have to have the courage to change it, this law, modifying it: we understand that there are some categories that probably can't find a job, they will never be able to get into the job and they must definitely be helped, but we cannot continue to think only about assistantism. Attention: it is okay and it is right to help people and regions in greater difficulty and it is right the plan of the Mezzogiorno, but we cannot forget the unsuited, those who do not live under the umbrella of the State; we cannot forget the companies and the productive part - especially the most productive one - that is North Italy [[Applause]] ; that is the real problem, but it seems to me that the government has forgotten about it. [[Comments.]] Let us help the South, but also the North, because also on the subject of autonomy in the report you say that you will continue after, however, that the famous essential levels of performance will be verified and highlighted; the former Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, my colleague Erika Stefani, points out to us often and willingly that binding autonomy to the fact of doing and organizing first the essential levels of performance means risking never achieving it, because the latter inevitably tend to increase public spending. From the Ministry of Economics and Finance then will never come the ok for these essential levels [[Applause]] , so say first that you put autonomy in the drawer and you don't want to do it anymore! [[Applause.]] That is what you must have the courage to say. We cannot therefore vote for a National Reform Programme which provides for this, but also for health, since here there are very strong supporters of the European Stability Mechanism (and of these EUR 37 billion for health), write in the report that the Government's commitment will primarily concern human capital, with the adoption of urgent measures to increase staff. I have often and gladly heard in this House that we need staff and that there are doctors to be hired, with the invitation to use the ESM. Be careful, however, because anyone who has done a minimum of public administration knows that hiring staff means using current expenditure, while the ESM is one-off: when money runs out what do we do? Are we firing the personnel we hired? [[Applause.]] Is that what we want to do? Do we hire them for a few years, then send them home? If, however, someone were to reply "Watch that you are wrong, Senator Romeo, why do we intend to use them instead for investment" then why ask 37 billion loan to make investments when we have 28 in our state budget that have not yet been spent? [[Applause.]] Let's spend what we already have in the register first! Here the ideological battle - I tell Senator Bonino - comes from the supporters of the ESM, not from those who want to reason and discuss these issues in Parliament. Leaving aside the issue of conditionality, because everyone will have his idea, let's go into the matter to understand what you want to do, because I have serious doubts about the staff to assume and about the investments as many. So let's evaluate these things. For all these reasons (and other very negative aspects are missing) our vote on the National Reform Programme cannot be favorable, also because, going forward with this step, we tell you very clearly, our country will hardly become competitive and our children will have a future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u144	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, before I explain the reasons why the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the National Reform Programme and the budgetary deviation, I would like to reiterate a fundamental concept: in recent months, the government and the majority have taken difficult and tough decisions, which have certainly brought suffering to many families and businesses. I would remind myself, my group, the majority and the whole House that these choices have been made for a fundamental reason, namely to save lives. [[Applause]] If those choices had not been made, we would certainly have had twice as many cases of coronavirus and probably twice as many as the victims. This would have been very serious and we must remember that. I'm not saying that. A study published in a very important scientific journal says that. Well, we must be thankful for these choices, even if we are aware that many families and companies are suffering. There has been a bad talk about the income of citizenship, but I would like to remind you, with the utmost humility, that we must thank that there has been 1,100,000 families at least managed to have a support, an anchor, a donut of rescue at this moment of great suffering. [[Applause]] However, in my opinion we have succeeded in achieving good, commendable results, and we owe that to the sense of responsibility of the majority, but I would say that of the whole House. This sense of responsibility must also lead us in the coming months because there are still many choices to be made. The choices that have been made, however, have brought benefits and the Bank of Italy also tells us. 2% of GDP has practically been earned - as it were, I know that we are at a difficult time - through the measures that have been taken, i.e. through the Italian decree cure, the decree relaunches and also the liquidity decree. These actions have brought at least a 2% reduction in the suffering of GDP and this is a huge achievement. Do we want to talk about the Integration Fund in order to understand what has been done? Well, 40% of the workers had access to the Integration Fund. Each company has saved on average 1,100 euros for every worker who has worked, on average, one hundred and fifty-six hours less, 90% of the monthly time. Well, every worker - alas, alas - has had 27.3% less income and this is something we must remember for the interventions that we have done but that we still have to do because it is not right that we have families that have paid so much for what happened. We are starting to approve the third deviation - 25, 55 and now another 25 billion euros - to do the important things for this country, that is those measures that serve to give support to businesses and families from the point of view of work and income. Someone's accusing us of fragmentary choices. Actually, it's not like that. The programming is there and follows the evolution of the damage caused by the epidemic and the consequences that logically occurred and that occurred because of the lockdown, because stopping, turning off the engine of the Nation has a cost and we realized it. This cost, however, is modulated over time, so we must intervene every time with ad hoc measures according to the needs. We are realizing that it is necessary to extend what we have done so far. Therefore, these 25 billion euros, useful to support the entrepreneurial fabric, serve to do extraordinary things, such as renewing the Cassa Integrazione for people who need it and especially for companies that cannot bring all their workers back to work and stimulate the work (and will be done by the Government), that is to give the possibility to bring back with an incentive the workers of the Cassa Integrazione and to give incentives also for the new hiring; but above all it is essential to intervene in a targeted and strategic way in those sectors that have suffered the most. I would also add that other measures which the Government has not mentioned should be extended. For example the rental bonus would be absolutely to be extended because if we think of a business, a small business, or a craftsman, a shop, an operator, the fixed costs are those of the staff - for which there is the integration fund - the goods - but we know that if a company does not work does not buy the goods - and then there is the rent, so if the business of a company has gone down you have to continue with some measures like the rental bonus. Then we still think about all that audience of companies, self-employed workers and companies that have been excluded from the credit circuit. Well, we have not yet been able to find that ad hoc measure in order to be able to finance even these companies that are currently the ones that are suffering the most. So it is right that the Government and the majority, the whole Parliament also intervenes for their benefit. Not to mention the so-called over-indebted, that is, the crowd of people and families who are dealing with justice because unfortunately they have not been able to pay their debts. Well, more can be done for them too, and probably this is the right occasion, perhaps not in this very measure, but we must be able to do something to ensure that the measures to facilitate the reduction of the litigation between debtor and creditor, once and for all, really find the light. The picture remains uncertain, the resources are certainly there (25, 55 and now another 25 billion), but probably the measures that have been financed in the past, in recent weeks and months, have been slightly overrated. This allows us to get the resources to finance those measures that we now need to refinance to support families and businesses. We come to the National Reform Programme; it is a plan that has to do with the state's accounting laws, a plan that must be done in April, but rightly the government has chosen to wait because it knew that something important would probably happen, beyond the evolution of the pandemic. This has happened, that is, the countries of the European Union have jointly decided to deal with the crisis arising from the Covid-19 pandemic in a common, united and unique way, but above all by sharing the debt. This is an extraordinary fact that no one would have expected just a few weeks ago. The Government has succeeded in doing so thanks to the intent of our President of the Council of Ministers, Giuseppe Conte [[Applause]] , which a few weeks ago, at most two months ago, wrote a letter which convinced eight other countries to write to the European Commission to ask for new, strategic and substantial measures to deal with the damage caused by the pandemic. And it has succeeded in doing so, and it has not only convinced those countries, but also the European Commission to do so, and now, fortunately, we have this common debt of the European Union that will enable us to do great things. Italy through the famous next generation EU and the recovery fund will be able to get 209 billion euros to spend in useful programs not only for Europe, but also for our nation. We have three main reasons why this programme has been funded. The first is to help countries to support and combat the pandemic crisis of the Covid-19. The second is to facilitate public and private investment. The third is to be able to restructure the programmes already famous and already known by the European Union that are so useful to each country. In addition to these reasons, there are the three guidelines on which this money must be spent. First of all, the environment; we have been talking about it for forty years and finally today we have the resources to succeed in realizing our projects. Well, the care and protection of the environment is also a star of Movimento 5 Stars; we will finally be able to carry out projects thanks to the money of the European Union. Not to mention the second pillar, that of work and social inclusion; from there everything starts the income, but above all it must start by abolishing the differences between the most skilled and the least skilled, between men and women. [[Applause.]] There must be no more differences of any kind, all have the right to work, all must be part of social inclusion, all must and have the right to work. The third fundamental pillar is the modernisation and digitisation of the country. We've talked a lot about that, too. Italy has been a pioneer of computer science, let's not forget, but the development of computer science has been a bit messy: now it's time to put into place what we have done. The databases must be shared, but above all we must give the opportunity to the public administration to show how important it is, to show what it is worth. Well, this will be done through digitisation, and it will be possible to have those typical services of public administration carried out through computer science to help the citizen and improve the dialogue between public administration, citizens and businesses. Mr President, I shall start with the conclusions, recalling the three things that we must do now and which have reminded us of all the audits in the Commission. You have to run because we don't have time, this money has to be committed between 2021 and 2023. We must therefore rush to draw, design and realize the things that we have appointed ourselves to do. Above all, and it is the second pillar, we must do so by reporting to our citizens: we must show how we spend that money, so that everyone has the confidence of what we are doing and, above all, the results that we will be able to achieve. Mr President, the third pillar is that we must be united, all together, majority and opposition, in order to achieve this dream. We have to do this not for us and for our consents, but for our nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u146	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u147	Mr Quegliariello (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the starting point is common: the Covid has created an exceptional situation, from a health point of view, from an economic and social point of view. Faced with an exceptional situation, a Marxist would ask to identify a development project and to find a social reference block, to get out of the crisis. A liberal, more modestly, is content with a vision. And, in my opinion, government gentlemen, that is the problem. The problem is that of the vision, it is not even that of the acceptance of some proposals of the center-right. If this intention were to exist, it would simply be to contemplate two visions in a project and in a single direction, a bit like it was done in other times when the country had to start again. And instead, gentlemen of the government, a vision is difficult to see, latita. It seems to me that we are simply extending the emergency and increasing the public debt. Let it be clear: in exceptional times the increase in public debt is a necessity, but if it is accompanied by a vision. If it lacks vision, it is simply an additional mortgage on the shoulders of the generations that will follow. I say this very bluntly: our decision is very conditioned by yesterday's debate on the emergency, which has disappointed us, because this vision did not come out. On the contrary, this vision has materialized in the repositioning of an emergency and this is the reason why the Senators of Idea and Cambiamo, members of the Mixed Group, will abstain on the proposal of deviation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u148	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. Motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I note that the absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 160 votes, is required for this resolution. The vote on the motions for resolutions will therefore take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 308 Senators voting 307 Favorable 170 Contrars 4 Absent 133]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B) [[Applause]] It therefore precludes the motion for a resolution No 101, tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. We move on to motion for a resolution No 1 to the National Reform Programme 2020, accepted by the Government, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u149	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u150	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u151	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Ciriani, Romeo and Bernini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Ciriani, Romeo and Bernini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u154	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, thirty-seven years ago, at eight o'clock in the morning, in Via Giuseppe Pipitone Federico, at number 59 in Palermo, there was a car padded with TNT. Rocco Chinnici, magistrate, were murdered; Mario Trapassi, Marshal of the Weapons; Salvatore Bartolotta, deputy; Stefano Li Sacchi, the doorman of the building; there were fourteen wounded, including children. After the assassination of another magistrate, Gaetano Costa, Rocco Chinnici had thought of a new strategy, to make a group not to leave the judges alone. The anti-mafia pool was soon born from there. At the time I attended the University of Palermo and I remember the serious dog of that month of July and the hot sheets of that car. On this very sad day I remembered yesterday, when I read about the dissolution of the city council of Partinico, my city. It is a grave shame and, for a matter of bell towering modesty, I would have been led to want to spread a pitiful veil to protect the dignity of so many good people. It is an epilogue also predictable if we look at the most recent political and administrative vicissitudes: in recent years we have seen two mayors resign for entirely different reasons, two consequent Commissariats and now a loose council for interference from organized crime; dissolution to which will follow a police management of eighteen months. A very dear praise goes to all the authorities that today constitute a bulwark to protect all citizens [[Applause]] and, therefore, the expression of a present State; of the State which exists in relation to the emergence of every maliciousness and every attempt at criminal conditioning; of the State which exists thanks to the commitment, the uprightness and the sacrifice of so many men like Rocco Chinnici. My city extends on a fertile and rich plain that slopes, with its worked lands, from the hills to the near sea; unique wealth is, basically, agriculture, that hard profession that has tempered our ancestors and also left extraordinary vestiges in an island of conquest over the millennia, in the center of the Mediterranean and meeting point of continents and cultures. The commissioners do their work and guide this community towards a better future; they do it with dedication and passion, because the partinicean community needs it very much. In the interests of everyone and of the community, let them accompany us towards social, economic and political growth, giving a boost to the culture of evil. Good work to them and to the partinicians all; we will succeed, united women and men of genuine good will, to bring this community back from the ashes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u155	As already announced, odd commissions are now convened for the election of the President, Vice Presidents and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u156	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-246.ana.u157	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 30 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.20 a.m.
