ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 30 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u4	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have to make a statement on the Minutes concerning the sitting of 30 July. At the time of the vote on the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the request for permission to proceed with Senator Salvini on the Open Arms case, I have inserted the personal electronic card, not the one delivered as duplicate. I also read my name, but I was neither registered nor voted. I wanted to confirm the vote in favour of the rapporteur's report and also, on the occasion, to point out the criticality of an electronic system that probably has some flaws.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u5	The Presidency takes note of this. I also hope that, sooner or later, everyone will be able to vote, as was the case before the current stage, from their place. This will probably make it easier to avoid such events. Since no further comments have been made, the Minutes are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u7	On 4 August, the House of Deputies sent the following bill: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 86 of 31 July 2020 laying down urgent provisions on gender equality in the electoral consultations of regions with ordinary status" (1905).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u8	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u9	The Conference of Leaders met late yesterday afternoon and approved by a majority amendments and additions to the current week's timetable. The agenda for today's sitting provides for the discussion from the headquarters of the draft law on the safety of health professions and the draft law on the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement with Argentina in the field of defence. At the end of the two measures, the sitting will be suspended until 3 p.m. Upon the resumption of the proceedings, the Assembly will proceed to the deliberations on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution. Following the examination of the Commission's report on the waste cycle and the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 for which discussion was divided one hour and fifty minutes, on the basis of the group's specific requests, in addition to explanations of vote. In tomorrow's sitting - which, like today's, will begin at 9.30 a.m. - the decree-law on gender equality will be discussed in the electoral consultations of the regions with ordinary statutes, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The amendments to the House will have to be tabled by 2 p.m. today. One hour and twenty-five minutes were allocated for the general discussion of the measure, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The question time, scheduled for tomorrow at 3 p.m., will not take place. The Conference of Leaders is convened at 3.30 p.m. today to establish the timetable for work in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u10	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 4 August 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current week's calendar: [[Wednesday, August 5 h. 9.30 - Drawing of law n. 867-B - Safety health professions (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1086 - Ratification of the Agreement of cooperation with Argentina in the field of defence - Deliberation for the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution - Doc. XXIII, n. 4 - Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the waste cycle on the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 - Drawing of Law n. 1905 - Decree-Law No 86, Gender Equality in the electoral consultations of regions with ordinary status (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) (expands on 29 September) (Thursday 6, 9.30 a.m.) Thursday 6" h. 9.30 a.m.]] Amendments to draft law No 1905 (Decree-Law No 86, Gender Equality in the electoral consultations of regions with ordinary status) should be tabled by 2 p.m. on 5 August. Time distribution for discussion of draft law n. 1905 (Decree-Law n. 86, Gender equality in the electoral consultations of regions with special status) (2 hours and 25 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 1 hour and 25 minutes, of which: M5S 15' L-SP-PSd'Az 10' FI-BP 10' PD 10' Mixed 10' IV-PSI 10' FdI 10' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']] The timing breakdown shall take into account specific requests from the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u13	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Senators and Senators, as the Lega Group, we are putting forward an alternative calendar proposal to the Conference of Leaders: in addition to all the measures in sequence, until the adoption tomorrow of the decree on gender equality in Puglia, we ask that on Thursday afternoon we address the issue of acts of the Technical and Scientific Committee which inspired the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which have been secreted, through a political debate which may also involve the vote on an act of direction for the Government. ( [[Applause).]] We want to understand why these acts have been sealed. It should be understood how the Government has done, in the face of a sentence of the TAR of Lazio that gave the citizens the possibility to have access to those acts, to resort to the Council of State blocking everything until at least 10 September. This is also something that we cannot understand and tolerate, but regardless of that issue, which will develop with the ruling of the Council of State, do we want to understand: do Parliament, the senators and Members have the right to consult those acts or not? ( [[Applause).]] I remember that just last summer we heard the President of the Council say that he wanted to parliamentaryize everything that happened in the country. Well, let us be given the opportunity to consult those acts. We do not want to make photocopies and carry them around; we want them to be consulted because it is right for the representatives of the people to know the truth about what happened. ( [[Applause]] ). On this point as a Group we have already sent a letter to President Alberti Casellati to ask her to be spokesperson, being the second office of the State, of this strong discomfort that the population and the representatives of the people are experiencing. I repeat, I am referring to the fact that we are not given access to those minutes which inspired the famous decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and which have been the basis for restrictions on personal freedoms. At this point we ask ourselves - this is a great opportunity - where the left has ended up, which, ideologically, loved to remove the secrets of state. Where's the left one? ( [[Applause]] ). Where is the Movimento 5 Stars that made transparency its main battle? Where did those movement values go? ( [[Applause).]] Before concluding, I would like to make known to the whole House a series of events which give rise to many doubts. First question: In January, the Ministry of Health issued an emergency plan with three scenarios, one of which was very complicated for the population. Precisely for this reason, the scenario is so disastrous that that plan is secreted. This is the first very particular episode. Second question: the state of emergency is extended by the last decree that was voted here in the Chamber, when there is absolutely no evidence of emergencies at this time, just so that the President of the Count Council can retain his special powers. [[Applause]] Third question: the secrecy, through the use of the Council of State, of the acts of the Technical and Scientific Committee and of the Civil Protection that inspired the DPCM. What's to hide? Is there any problem with health protocols by chance, or not? [[Applause]] The fourth question is what happened yesterday with regard to the question of the heads of the Secret Service: the Government changes the appointments without informing Parliament and without involving the Copasir, in spite of all the balances of powers. [[Applause]] The Secret Service is also a question of the balance of power between majority and opposition; let us be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a government today and there is opposition. Tomorrow this issue will always be there, there will always be a government and there will always be an opposition, or at least hopefully, unless you are going towards the direction of a dictatorship. We certainly hope so, of course. [[Applause]] In fact, illustrious characters and experts have said that dictatorship never comes with one act, but with a series of acts; I have already mentioned four to you, at least you realize what is happening, but today it is better to call it, as Mrs Cantù has already said in this House... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u14	Let him speak, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u15	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). My colleague, Mrs Cantù, called it the democratization, health dictatorship or dictatorship of technicians. Did these technicians advise the government, or did they order the government? We want to know that. [[Applause]] Maybe we're wrong, but all these secreted acts - forgive us - legitimize the suspicion that you have something to hide. If one has nothing to hide, the acts make them absolutely public, starting from a national anti-pandemic plan of which we do not yet know the contents. We want to see the contents. Other than the state of emergency, we want the anti-pandemic plan and we want to know it in Parliament. [[Applause]] At this point you have a great opportunity to show us that we are wrong and that you do not want to hide anything: vote in favour of the timetable that we propose and Thursday afternoon we discuss, perhaps in the presence of the President of the Council or Minister Hope, these issues. At least we will once and for all clarify before the Italians, because we want the truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u18	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I believe that there are a lot of lawyers in this House and many of them know that when we talk a lot we do not actually achieve the objective; those who do not have to hide, those who do not have to build non-existent accusations, those who do not have to defend need a few words. If I have to judge what the chairman of the Romeo League Group did a moment ago, I would say that this principle contradicts itself. We have nothing to hide. The theme is only one: if you want to deal with one topic seriously, you do not schedule it from one day to another. It is not done instrumentally, in order to be able to do this scene also from the media point of view. [[Applause]] However, since an answer has been requested and the 5 Star Movimento has been brought into play, it is right that President Romeo has an answer and we do not get away from an objectively delicate issue on which we also want to say ours. If this - and I repeat - is to be exchanged for the fact that we cannot schedule any day from one day to the next, because there is already a timetable, I would point out that we too have made our proposals, as he did, but doing so from one day to the next is not serious. It seemed to us that paradoxically those who wanted to introduce this debate at the same time wanted to take away from it, with accusations built, as we have seen, instantly. If that was enough for President Romeo to deal with the matter, please him happy everyone. If you want to do it seriously, we are available. There will be other Conferences of the Leaders, there will be one today and then we will see in September. I would say that very quietly and with a few words compared to the river of words used to deal with this topic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u21	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I will speak very briefly, but with words that honour the seriousness of the matter. We believe that the question raised in yesterday's Conference of Leaders, recalled by Senator Romeo, is a very serious issue and this majority certainly does not escape the interest of the whole country so that there is complete transparency on all those acts that have allowed the Government to manage the pandemic well, as has been recognized by Italy from all over the world. [[Applause]] There will be opportunities, starting from the next few days, for there to be all the acts at Parliament's disposal and it will certainly not be the Democratic Party and the whole majority that will deny this transparency. Among other things, no one can give lessons on the need for truth, because truth is a patrimony for each of the senators at the time when the term of office of a Member of Parliament begins and so we, like everyone else, believe that the truth about what has happened, which can also be a truth induced by objective facts or interpretations as politics may require, must be an element of the debate that will take place in this Parliament also on these issues of the acts of the Technical and Scientific Committee. After that, if instead the intent of Senator Romeo, who wanted to provoke this debate, trying to insert in extremis, at the tail of this week, such a delicate theme, was provocative, let me say in an equally provocative way that probably the need to see those acts is more than all of Senator Salvini, who evidently without those acts had completely lost the compass, saying one day to open the whole country and the other day to close it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u24	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, already yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders we joined in the request of colleagues in the League Group on the transparency of acts secreted for reasons we do not know, for which the Government even asked, after being defeated at the TAR, to appeal to the Council of State. Here we are witnessing a truly incredible reversal of the march, especially from the 5 Star Movement, which for years has preached the right of citizens to obtain transparency and the duty of transparency on the part of politics, which has taught us that transparency is the essential and indispensable figure of politics, which has imposed direct streaming for its representatives and now does not speak a single word in the face of such a serious act as the Government's request not to let its citizens and elected parliamentarians know what is written so curious and so dangerous in the papers of the Technical and Scientific Committee. There must be many strange, curious and singular things, if we want to comment on what certain representatives of the Technical and Scientific Committee say, which should speak less and perhaps study a little more, because they venture into political considerations completely unrelated to their mandate; too many have we heard and seen in recent months. Our request again is very clear, very simple and very direct. If this - as President Conte said - is not a government that acts with the favor of darkness, then it is time to dissipate these darkness and shed light on all aspects of these months of lockdown and fight against the Covid. I would add that perhaps even more serious, although less striking to the general public, is the issue of the Secret Service. In this case too, we cannot add a paragraph to a decree to extend the activities of the top secret services, without informing oppositions, without informing Parliament and without first having the consent of everyone. This has always happened and belongs to the institutional etiquette between majority and opposition, on matters pertaining to national security. What has happened is very serious. Now we begin to understand what the government's request for an extension of the state of emergency means: to be able to do what it wants, in spite of Parliament, because everything is allowed to him with the excuse of the emergency and the fight against the Covid. But we cannot tolerate that this can still happen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u27	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I believe that we are having a debate on something that is not true. The government didn't say it didn't want to desecrate the acts, but it said it wanted to keep the act secret until the medical emergency closed. That means, Mr President, that, if we want to use those acts for transparency, we will have the opportunity to do so when those acts, when the health emergency is closed, are desecrated. If we want to use those acts for political controversy, we need them to be desecrated today. But we are not interested in political polemics, moreover at a time when the country is still in a health emergency, albeit reduced and contained; today there is an additional emergency, the economic one. I believe that dragging Parliament into judicial controversy and confrontation between institutions, with the involvement of the judiciary, is a mistake. I am sorry that the word-guarantees want to turn Parliament into a court of law. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u28	I didn't understand what kind of merchandise you wanted to sell, so I would ask you to let me finish. Please, Senator Pharaoh.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u29	FARAONE (IV-PSI). At least when you shout, take off your mask, so I understand you, Senator Romeo. Otherwise, I don't understand you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude Senator Pharaoh. FARAONE (IV-PSI). I believe that we must absolutely demand transparency. We too want to know the acts and I do not believe that the government has been willing to keep them hidden. To date there is also a date for the end of the health emergency, Mr President: on 15 October (and we hope that there will not be another date and another extension). I think we can all be patient about the acts; if there is any political controversy, we will all do it after we know the acts. No government and no majority want to keep anything hidden; there is simply a request from the government linked to the opportunity to avoid desecuting the acts until the conclusion of the health emergency. It does not seem to me to be a scandal; it becomes a scandal if one wants to end the controversy in itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u30	Thank you, Senator Pharaoh. To be fair, I have to say that we are not discussing anything, but we are debating a request to change the timetable, which is absolutely usual.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u33	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too agree with the request made by President Romeo. I must say that President Pharaoh's intervention has confirmed to me the opportunity for the government to report and clarify the matter. I do not believe that the Italians, who have faced with a great sense of responsibility and discipline the very difficult and more intense period of closure, quarantine, of not being able to move from home, are not mature enough to not be able to know the reasons on the basis of which there have been all these restrictions, with fines, with the huge economic difficulties and with the extension of the state of emergency until October. Just because things are connected, I think there should be clarification. I see no reason - and I do not know if there are - why the government should not report, speak and explain without entrenching itself behind appeals - those yes - bringing to court an issue which, on the other hand, should be addressed by Parliament, since the function of Parliament, in addition to the legislative function of course, is also to clarify and control the acts of the Government. As has been said, in fact, it cannot be reserved for the TAR and the Council of State the power of parliamentarians, representatives of the people, to know the reasons why we are still in a state of emergency. [[Applause]] , a state of emergency under which constitutional freedoms are governed and limited by decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, an instrument which is not even mentioned in the Constitution. However, seeing that there is a closure on the part of the majority, where there is no willingness to speak on Thursday about this subject, the Forza Italia Group proposes another urgency related to the previous one, namely the question of justice. Our proposal, which we are asking for to be put to the vote only if President Romeo's proposal is rejected, is that we should schedule on Thursday the measures which we - and also others in fact - have been presented on the question of justice, where they have been concluded in the Commission, and one certainly is. Specifically, it is the draft law on the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the political use of justice (Act 1870), a subject I would say of great topicality: perhaps the subjects change, but the issue remains strong. [[Applause]] To this are added the bill, at the first signature of Senator Caliendo, on the political positions of magistrates (Senate Act 255) and the bill for the establishment of the National Day in memory of the victims of judicial errors (Senate Act 1686). I would say that these are important issues, which involve hundreds of thousands and indirectly millions of citizens, and I believe that they deserve Parliament's attention at the moment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u34	Senator Malan, in your proposal you have indicated three measures: I suppose it would be a bit difficult to examine them all on Thursday afternoon. Would you like to point out one in particular? MALAN (FIBP-UDC). The proposal provides for the treatment of the measures, where the examination has been completed in the Commission and, at the moment, only the examination of the draft law for the establishment of the National Day in memory of the victims of judicial errors has been concluded in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, in this way we restrict the proposal more precisely. There are no other requests for intervention, except that of Senator Romeo himself, in explanation of vote, which we can allow by interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u37	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, by clearly announcing our vote in favour of the proposal, I would like to make it clear that there has been no instrumental use. At yesterday's Conference of Leaders we had initially asked for this debate to be scheduled at the sitting on 26 August, but the majority had no intention of doing so, proposing quite another timetable; indeed, the majority decided to wait for another Conference of Leaders to schedule the work of the next few weeks. Therefore, Senator Perilli, wanting to talk about the subject, we were obliged to do so now: there is therefore nothing instrumental. These are first Republic tricks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u40	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, since you have allowed Senator Romeo to speak in an explanation of vote, I too must be given the same opportunity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not really like that, but move on. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr Perilli (M5S). The point is as follows. The instrumentality depends on the fact that there should have been an agreement on the calendar; it was issued from one day to the next. Let us say, rather, that the League is fleeing from the question of authorization to proceed on the Siri case, whose calendarization we have asked for in this House, together with the other authorizations [[Applause]] They are not talking about this, they are talking about something else, in order to escape what would be an obligation of clarity to the citizens. They want to schedule instead...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u41	Senator Perilli, let us confine ourselves to what has been asked. We're talking about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u42	Mr Perilli (M5S). We are talking about the timetable and, given that President Romeo has spoken about the League's proposal, there was a discussion among our proposals on the authorisations to proceed, because - as has just been mentioned - there will also be the victims of justice, but justice has the right to move forward. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u43	Colleagues, let him finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u44	Mr Perilli (M5S). You're the one who introduces arguments... PRESIDENT. - Senator Perilli, address the Presidency. Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, they have just introduced some arguments and, if we want to talk about what has been said at the Conference of the Leaders on timetables, the permissions to proceed, which also concern the League, are late in being discussed in this House. And this is also transparency, a duty of clarity towards the citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u45	Colleagues, please, I would like to bring the debate back to a precise point. We are discussing the timetable against which two proposals for amendments have been made - one by the League, the Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia; another by Forza Italia - on which a debate has already developed. Since no other proposals have been made, the speeches made can be understood as explanations of vote. That is why I said that we should iron the Rules of Procedure in a certain sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u47	You have the right to do so. But in what capacity? CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to express a position which disagrees with that expressed by the President of the Group. I believe that it is important for Parliament to summon the Government to know the reasons for the secrecy of the minutes. I am only sorry that in this way the centre-right - not at all the national transparency champion - is given the opportunity to exploit the situation. Nevertheless, reluctantly and bitterly I find myself obliged to vote in favour of the proposal made by Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u48	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u50	You have the floor, but I also ask you why.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u51	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. Specifically, Article 55 states: The timetable, if adopted unanimously, shall be final and shall be communicated to the Assembly. Otherwise, proposals for amendment by one Senator per Group may be made. The Assembly shall decide on the proposed amendments by vote by show of hands, after the intervention of no more than one speaker per group and for no more than ten minutes each. It is clear that each senator can present a proposal, as did Senators Romeo and Malan; Senator Perilli spoke in the debate on the proposed amendments and, therefore, did not have the right to speak again for the second time. What is more, it is not an explanation of vote, but an intervention on the proposals, let alone a dissenting intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u52	Senator Calderoli, I would like to thank you for this precise clarification, which I summarized by inviting the House to try to interpret the Rules of Procedure which we all know very widely, of course. Sometimes, in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, politics does much more than we do.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u54	But in what capacity? Mr Urso (FdI). In explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's right at this point. You have the right to do so. Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, as a delegate of Parliament as a member of the Copasir, I speak on behalf of the Brothers of Italy to point out to the whole House that the question of the secrecy and activity of the Government, I would say anything but transparent towards Parliament, has become a clear problem for everyone. It has become a problem with the acts in question and, if Parliament today takes a different decision from that requested by the Forza Italia and Lega Groups, we will invest in this issue the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic which, by delegation of Parliament, has the task of intervening in this matter. I hope, however, that Parliament will do so. I would also like to point out that what happened in the decree-law extending the state of emergency is serious in the relationship of loyal collaboration between the institutions. It is serious because the President-in-Office of the Council intervened to explain the content of the decree extending the state of emergency. In that place he did not explain a rule, which he then included in the decree, which changes the procedures for appointing the top secret services. It is serious because Parliament, in a resolution, had given precise indications to the Government as to the scope of intervention of the decree-law extending the state of emergency by a vote on a majority resolution. Well, in that resolution there is no argument then dealt with in the night in the decree issued by the Government. Therefore, the Government comes here to explain the measure and does not speak of that rule; Parliament votes a resolution that does not speak of that rule and then, in the night, the Government introduces it but, in giving news of the decree to the press, describes the whole measure except that norm. Therefore, Parliament is not informed in advance; Parliament does not give such instructions to the Government but the Government, in the night, writes a decree containing, in Article 1, several paragraphs that modify the procedures for the appointment of the secret services, among other things - in my opinion - violating some constitutional dictates, and in the statement that illustrates the provision does not say anything about this. This is how we find published in the Official Journal, without the knowledge of Parliament, without the knowledge of the media and public opinion, a rule that changes the procedures for the appointment of secret services. This rule will be discussed at the appropriate forum, and then, of course, Parliament can freely amend it - and I hope it will - in order to re-establish the principles of Law No 124 of 2007, approved by majority and opposition. I say this, however, because it is clear to everyone that there is a problem of transparency and loyal cooperation between the institutional bodies, which also interferes with the vote we are about to take. I hope that Parliament - and especially those who have spoken of streaming, transparency and much more - will decide on transparency in this act.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u55	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u56	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senators Romeo, Ciriani and Malan, aimed at putting on the agenda read at the beginning of the sitting (which would end with the conversion of the decree-law on gender equality), on Thursday afternoon or at the conclusion of the measure just mentioned, a debate on the secrecy of the norms illustrated during the debate. It's not approved. I don't see any need to rehearse, if no one asks me. [[Comments.]] Although the proposal has been rejected, the counter-test has now been requested. I order the doors closed. We also close the doors of the stands, given the problem already had. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. (Some senators sing choirs about the word "Truth" and a banner is displayed.) Please hide the banner, which says what you're hiding. Colleagues, if you don't take it off, I have to suspend the session. Can parliamentary assistants remove the banner? (Some senators continue to sing choirs.) I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.16 a.m. and resumed at 10.21 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u57	The session is resumed. It will be the responsibility of the Offices to forward to the President the part of the Report relating to this phase of the work. We note that Senator Balboni did not work on the card and that he would vote in favour of the proposal to amend the timetable. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Malan, to discuss tomorrow the draft law dismissed by the Justice Commission concerning the establishment of the Day of remembrance of victims of judicial errors. It's not approved. Retest has been requested. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u58	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 867-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies will be the subject of the deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Boldrini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Sileri and Mr Del Re representing the Government, today in this House - which I hope will recover from the current confusion - we are examining at third reading a draft law of government initiative, which - as the President mentioned earlier - contains safety provisions for health and social security professionals in the performance of their duties. It is a measure that today is anachronistic compared to what happened with the emergency Covid. Despite the great affection, the infinite gratitude and gratitude that the Italians demonstrated during the aforementioned emergency towards every health care professional for the efforts made in order to save lives at the expense of their own, those same people, however, until a few months ago, were mistreated and unfortunately also attacked. This measure, therefore, which we hope will be adopted today, was born last year. [[Brusio.]] Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, you really don't hear anything, but I think this bill is important.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u60	Colleagues, Senator Boldrini has the right to speak without being disturbed: those who want to go out can do it freely, the doors have been reopened. Please continue, Madam Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u61	BOLDRINI, rapporteur. Today we are examining this measure at the third reading, having been approved in the second Chamber, where improvements have been made in my opinion, which have strengthened and implemented some important aspects, which I am going to list. Article 1 makes clear the regulatory references for the notions of the health and social health professions: as I said, it has been improved, because the category of professions has been extended, recalling the specific Articles 4 and 6 to 9 of Law No 3 of 2018. Article 2 provides for the establishment of a National Observatory on the safety of health and social and health professionals, of which I will speak much more in depth later. Article 3 provides for the promotion of information initiatives on the importance of respect for the work of workers in the health and social and health professions. Article 4 lays down aggravated penalties for cases of serious or serious personal injury to persons performing one of the professions mentioned above or to persons carrying out activities auxiliary to those professions, either because of or in the pursuit of their professions or activities. In Article 5 it is inserted among the aggravating circumstances of the crimes committed with violence or threat - and here we will touch the penal code - to have acted to the detriment of one of the aforementioned subjects, either because of or in the exercise of the relative profession or activity. Article 6 excludes, in cases where they are committed with violence or threat to the detriment of the persons mentioned above in the performance of their duties, offences of beatings and personal injury from the scope of the cases punishable only by a complaint of the person offended. Article 7 provides for the adoption of preventive measures designed to establish specific operational protocols with the police forces by the structures in which health and social and health workers operate. Article 8 provides for the establishment of National Day of Education and Prevention against Violence against Health and Social Health Care Workers. Article 9 imposes a pecuniary administrative penalty for the hypothesis of abusive, offensive or harassing violent conduct against personnel engaged in a health or socio-health profession or carrying out auxiliary activities in those professions. Article 10 regulates financial invariance clauses. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am entering more into this important article, whose process we will complete today, making it a law. Article 1, which - as I said - has been included in the House, makes it much more appropriate to identify health and social and health professions. To this end, the general rules on the subject, according to which and to the state of implementation, the health professions are at present those reserved for members of the professions of the following orders: doctors-surgeons and dental practitioners; veterinarians; pharmacists; biologists; physicists and chemists; nursing professions; midwifes; medical radiology and technical health professionals, rehabilitation and prevention; and psychologists. The socio-health professions include, according to the state of implementation of the relevant disciplines, the professional profiles of socio-health worker, social worker, sociologist and professional educator. It refers to the law of 11 January 2018, n. 3, which established the professions and lists all the health and social-health professions in the health sector. Article 2 of the draft law requires a ministerial decree to establish, at the Ministry of Health, the said National Observatory and to define its duration and composition. This is the main theme of the provision, which was examined by the Senate at first reading. The Observatory is a very important focus, as it will have to take into account everything that has happened and is taking place in the area of safety in the health professions. A report will have to be submitted annually by the Departments concerned so that we know what has been noted. This is expected to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, in agreement with the Ministries of the Interior and the Economy and Finance, of course in agreement with the Permanent Conference on Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. The ministerial decree must define the composition of the Observatory within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. With regard to the composition of the organism, it has been improved and implemented. I recall that I tabled amendments which were rejected by the previous majority and which were accepted by the current majority. It has been foreseen that representatives of Inail will also be included in the Observatory, which, as a matter of work, is, in my view, an important and fundamental change. There is another important note, since we are talking about gender equality. The House of Deputies also included the need to respect the principle of gender equality, thus providing for the presence of both men and women within the Observatory. I believe that this passage is very important, also because the views of those who believe that they have received aggressions, in what manner and with what moods, are better represented by men and women together, rather than by representatives of a single sex who find themselves having to represent what happened to representatives of the opposite sex. I am convinced that this really is a very important step, because we know that the health world is represented by the majority of women. Equal gender representation within the Observatory is an aspect that contributes to increasing its importance. Other representatives of the professional bodies concerned must be part of the Observatory, in addition to industry organisations and patient associations: another essential aspect, as the patient's point of view is crucial. With regard to the tasks of the Observatory, the Chamber of Deputies has made some additions, in addition to those already included by the Senate during the first reading examination. The implementation of the prevention and protection measures provided for in the occupational safety framework is complemented by the forecast that the Observatory will also promote the use of video surveillance tools. This area of discipline has been extended to the House of Deputies. Another important point concerns the dissemination of good practice. During the hearings of representatives of the health professions, it emerged that, in some areas of our territory and in some health groups, there are good practices that need to be noted in order to be used by others. Other tasks of the Observatory - which are the key point of the legislation, but not only, because then we will also pass on to the legal aspects and sanctions that are equally fundamental - concern the monitoring of the episodes of violence committed to the detriment of operators in the performance of their functions, also acquiring regional data relating to the extent and frequency of phenomena and to the situations of risk and vulnerability in the environment from work. These data are acquired with the support of the National Observatory for Good Health Safety Practices, already in existence, established in Agenas pursuant to Article 3 of Law No 24 of 8 March 2017, and professional orders. In particular, it is expected that the National Observatory for Good Practices on Health Safety, through Agenas, will transmit to the new Observatory the relevant data acquired by health risk management and patient safety centres. You also see here, therefore, a collection of data at national level that, of course, must have the collection of all the Regions. Another interesting and important case included is the monitoring of sentinel events. Sometimes, in fact, there are events that can predict the possibility of aggressions taking place. Monitoring them, therefore, is important, because it can improve certain conditions, including working conditions. Studies and analyses are, of course, promoted for the formulation of proposals and measures to reduce risk factors in the most exposed environments. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u62	Senator Boldrini, you've already gone a minute and a half beyond your time. We are in a final phase and I invite you to finish your speech. I authorize you to deliver the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u63	BOLDRINI, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. I certainly accept the invitation to attach the text of my speech, but I would ask you to give me another minute for the conclusions. The measure is based on these three important aspects, obviously declined for the Observatory, but above all for raising awareness. So, of course, I am delighted to have managed to complete it in the third reading. In this case, I should like to thank all my colleagues in the Commission for having all agreed to the decision not to table further amendments, since we really wanted to reach the final adoption of this very important and requested bill. During the emergency Covid-19 we saw how, incessantly, they did the health professions. Recognize them also the safety aspect, which they must have during their activity... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u64	Senator Boldrini, thank you and I assure you that your speech has been exhaustive.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u65	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u66	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the work of the Reference Commissions has been carried out with the utmost correctness of relations between the parliamentary groups, in order to ensure the necessary parliamentary dialectic and the proper institutional confrontation between Parliament and the Government. This allows us today to proceed with the final examination of the draft law under consideration. I thank, therefore, on behalf of the Government, the Presidents of the Commissions of merit; the speakers who, both to the Chamber and to the Senate, have worked with the highest level of professionalism and competence and all the members of the Commissions of merit. A particular appreciation goes, of course, also to the work of the Offices of the Commissions. The bill, which contains safety provisions for health and social health professionals in the performance of their duties, today under consideration for the final approval, was strongly desired by the former Minister of Health, Giulia Grillo, and is the result of the government's will to identify measures to prevent and combat acts of violence committed to the detriment of all health and socio-health professionals. It is a concrete act, prepared by the Government, which offers preventive and dissuasive tools and aims to increase the safety of professionals who daily endanger their psychophysical safety in carrying out their activities. As you know, this is a growing phenomenon, aggravated further by the fact that, in recent years, there have been acts of particular gravity. It is not possible to die stabbed or shot during a guard service or be threatened at the entrance or exit of an operating room, as well as in the emergency room. The aggressions occur mainly in the night hours. Women are more affected than men and cases are certainly underestimated. Although the data show about five violences a day, these numbers are likely to be at least three times higher and it is estimated that, over the course of the professional life - for example - of nurses, some 230,000 out of 260,000 nurses have received some form of aggression, ranging from physical to verbal. Attacks are often done by patients' family members or by those on the waiting list. Unfortunately, this is a widespread problem, which slowed down during the Covid period and is resumed immediately after the end of the emergency and the acute phase. I do not list the details of the measures, having the rapporteur Boldrini offered her contribution, but I would like to thank you for having understood in all the passages of this act in a profound and sincere way the value, dedication and sacrifice of all health workers (doctors and nurses), who daily assure us health, save our lives and help us in the moment of need. In my opinion, this is a fundamental and initial act, but much will have to be done in the months to come to improve governance, working hours, wages and our National Health Service, to increase the adherence to it by those who work there. Let's start by respecting those who help us. We all work together to build a culture of mutual respect, starting from Parliament's classrooms. Health professionals and patients are both on the same side; let's not forget this: healthcare professionals and patients are on the same side. I thank you for your work and hope that the act will be approved unanimously. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u67	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u70	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, the measure we are about to vote concludes its process after almost a year of work by the House and Senate Commissions. There has been a very important debate that has had the merit of consolidating the establishment of the law in order to really be a tool to protect healthcare professionals. Attacks and violence against health workers are a spy of extreme social situations in which doctors, nurses, SDGs and all health care professionals often operate. It is not only this, because many attacks arise in a context of malfunctioning of the health system. We could therefore say that the Covid has only given us one more reason to consolidate the commitment to social and health care; non-fatigue structures are structures that protect the staff, but they are also working places where health care can express all its efficiency, thus removing one of the causes of the aggressions. Another equally important point is that of the garrison by the Forces of the Order, especially in the night hours, in the small structures that perhaps act in peripheral contexts. This also protects other patients and those who arrive in the emergency room, to ensure that they are not in situations that can bring further harm to their health condition. The Group for Autonomies will therefore express - as it did at first reading - a vote strongly in favour of the bill. We do this with the conviction that this is a part of that profound process of rethinking and relaunching the role of the health service in our country, a commitment that this Government has already undertaken in the weeks of the Covid with the grafts of new health personnel and the many resources that have been dedicated to strengthening the structures called to cure the virus. It is a commitment - as we have also said in other circumstances - that will have to continue with great intensity in the weeks and months to come, because if there is one thing that has taught us the pandemic is that universal access to care through a health care up to date is a pillar of a country that wants to be among the most advanced in the world and has also taught us the value of our medical class, nurses, health care workers and all the staff who work in health care and that every day guarantees health to all citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u73	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, in spite of the appearances, what we are dealing with this morning is a serious, binding, real and pressing problem, for example Senator Calandrini, in recent days, denounced a very serious incident at the hospital in Latina, Saturday or Sunday last week. I say in spite of appearances because I have the impression that, despite this text being elaborated in biblical times and despite being chewed extensively by Chamber and Senate and by the Commissions, the passage in which financial invariance is expected is sufficient alone to determine its limitedness and invariance, because where there is financial invariance there is also, evidently, invariance of concrete facts and relevant novelties. Beyond that, we voted on the text, as you have seen, ladies and gentlemen, simply because the most contains the least and therefore in the hope that sooner or later we can provide for more stringent and more binding regulations, the Brothers of Italy Group has taken care to vote on a text that contains two or three things that must be done and done anyway, we do not understand very well what money and with what resources, but we will see and judge in fact. In a sort of legislative drift, the text establishes observers, days of memory, task forces, all substitutes for politics, all imitations - I would say Chinese - of the need for politics to take important decisions and therefore escape routes that I personally, like the whole of the Brothers of Italy Group, do not share. There is yet another observatory - I repeat to financial invariance, therefore we do not understand these observers from whom they should be paid - the day on which we celebrate the need to protect the socio-health professions: good intentions, but that little adds to the problem that, I repeat, is serious, real and strong. There are some positive passages, such as the adaptation of the structures, just think, for example, of the structures in which the Serts are usually hosted, or those in which they operate the generality of the managers of the municipal social services. Although, as I said, we do not understand with which resources, we expect the adaptation of these structures, the video surveillance, the possibility of protocols with the Forces of Order: in short, in the text full of amenity, there is also something that may one day prove to be probably useful. The problem is of a general nature and is part of a moment of devaluation of the work of professionals, not only of those linked to the socio-health professions and not only of the public ones, as garrison of the public services, it is enough to think, in general, of the treatment that the VAT consignments are receiving at the moment. With regard to this issue, our party has widely and repeatedly denounced a time when, evidently, the world of professions does not receive the necessary consideration from governments and the current government in the first place. Compared to this topic we had asked, as Brothers of Italy, both the Senate in the incardination and the Chamber in the second reading, the forecast of the official status of the operator's socio-sanitary profession, at the time when he acts in the working time. It is clear that it is easy to equate with the urban watchman. Why is the city guard a public officer and the doctor isn't? The doctor also has a uniform, because he dresses the coat, which becomes almost a second skin. The doctor has an absolutely indispensable and public function, a public function par excellence, that is, the protection of health as the primary good for human life: why should he not be qualified as a public officer, with all that follows in terms of repression and sanctioning aggressive attitudes? This proposal has not gone away, but we believe that it should be reconsidered at the moment when the issue can finally be dealt with. Mr President, I think it is useful and urgent - and I say this to Mr Sileri, who I know is a sensitive person - to envisage a comprehensive reform of the framework of the National Health Service, forty-one years after the law that established it. In this overall reform, there must also be the role of the social and health professions and their protection, even in legal terms, because, Mr President, we have seen in these days the explica tion and manifestation of judicial measures, which will have their course and their outcome. I do not judge the facts; they will be and are certainly made criminally relevant and we have enormous confidence in the possibility of the judicial authority to establish the truth, but it is quite clear that, with regard to the possibility of aggression of the practitioners the health professions, which is not only physical or verbal, but also legal and patrimonial, a comprehensive framework of reorganization must be addressed, which also takes into account access to training paths. Here, we hope and hope that it will be possible for those who work in the exercise of these functions to be recognised as an official, with all that follows. Mr President, as I said, I am running out of my speech and I will make up for some of the time that Mr Boldrini had taken, which obviously needed more time to explain the measure. As we have seen, we have voted on all the articles, although we have ample room for doubt about this text, because we had to give a signal to a world and a piece of Italy that, especially in recent times and in the life of the emergency Covid-19, has given excellent proof of itself and has shown the ability of the world of health professions to deal with emergencies even when the regulatory framework available was perhaps not the most reassuring and even the most protective, without wanting to talk about the devices of individual protection and all the issues we know and that we have addressed. Today Parliament is giving a signal. It is a weak signal, but it is a signal. In the hope that all this may be the beginning of a journey - I say this also to the President of our Commission, to whom I have already had the opportunity to express the best wishes for good work - the Brothers of Italy Group approves this text, hoping that in the future we can do better and more. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u76	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as my previous colleagues and colleagues have said, we are at the third reading of this measure, which contains provisions on safety for health and social security professionals in the performance of their duties. In both passages the measure was voted unanimously, and this morning, in the vote on the articles, unanimity was found. It is a measure of initiative of the previous Government, imposed above all by the multiplication of episodes of violence against health and social health professionals. In addition to providing for the tightening of certain criminal cases, the draft law under consideration speaks of a culture of prevention of aggression and violence, which is the most important and interesting aspect. In order to address this issue, we need information, training and communication: these are the three axes referred to in the various articles, which have been greatly amended by the House, as the rapporteur also mentioned. In particular, Article 3 raises the issue of promoting information on the importance of respect for the work of health and social and health personnel, through institutional communication projects, to be carried out by the Ministry, and the prevention of protocols with the police. A national day of education and prevention against violence against health and health workers is established, through training courses for medical personnel, training aimed at preventing and managing conflict situations: we must train our medical and socio-health staff and prepare them to manage conflicts, improving the quality of communication between operators and citizens and citizens users. I think these articles of law are essential and fundamental to attack this important issue. Another important step is the National Observatory on the safety of health and social health professionals, which is called upon to collaborate with the other National Observatory, the one for good practice on health safety: this is also a profile strongly linked to the issues of prevention and collaboration. The third and final point I would like to make is that we are now approving this important measure after the terrible emergency of the Covid-19. The difficult situation we have faced has also changed the image and value of the health and social health professions in our imagination. We all know that many socio-health workers have lost their lives to cure a disease that is still very unknown today. We know what the social and health workers have done and what the social workers have done: let us think of the social workers involved in the outskirts of the big cities, but not only, where there is very strong organized crime and how much they are committed to helping the weakest. Mr President, the commitment of all of us, of all the political forces present in this Parliament, is therefore to ensure that, with the adoption of this measure, we succeed in preventing the episodes of anger that will occur: we think that the health crisis is closely linked to the economic crisis and that the anger and fear of citizens and citizens can be poured into who is our face, the institutional face, the professional face in this area. I think that we must therefore start from this measure and invest in strengthening hospital, health and social structures in order to secure the work of these professionals. There will be other measures and European funds will come. We must put the safety of operators first, because there is a great risk that episodes of intolerance may occur for the reasons I said: we must prevent them, creating in every territory a culture of prevention compared to these episodes. I should like to conclude by saying that, as the newly elected President of the Health Commission, I went to the Civil Hospitals on Sunday in Brescia and I felt with my hand how fundamental the work done and the conditions under which doctors and health workers worked in the hospital facilities were. We must ensure that this does not happen anymore, we must support them. There is one sentence that I was told on Sunday, which touched me so I am pleased to share it in this House. Many of them said they had worked in emergency conditions, without time limits, without paying attention to shifts, together, as if they were a community: the doctor learned from the nurses, the nurses from the doctor, doctors of various specializations shared their experiences in those tragic days and months. And then they concluded by asking the policy to help them now to manage normality. Well, I think that this is our high task and that we must really start from this measure a series of interventions to ensure first and foremost the normality of the operators, the normality of the safety of health and social health workers. Many of them tell us that they do not want to be considered heroes, they have done so much for our country and will continue to do so, but we must guarantee them normal. For these reasons, on behalf of my Italian Group Viva-Partito Socialist, we will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u79	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour of the draft law, which, as some Members have already said, highlights - by trying to give a signal - a problem that is becoming increasingly serious. Well the intervention to aggravate the penalties in relation to the crimes, good prevention. I also agree with a remark made by Senator Zaffini. The measure has been improved in the House, but, in addition to the problem of video surveillance and the worsening of crimes, we must be aware that, beyond information and prevention, we have a problem with organising activities. I want to give some examples. The E.R. can no longer stand and create a situation of tension. We need a reorganization operation that includes separate paths, and not from the Covid point of view, for those who have white codes and for those who, on the other hand, have more serious situations. Let us think of some services such as mental health services, for example, which have paid a very high price in the years of the cuts, and which are facing, in conditions of total emergency, a worsening of the situation from the point of view of mental health. We are talking about services where one or two psychiatrists face a problem for 100,000-150,000 people. Very well this initiative, but the strategic element is to review the organization. I hope, undersecretary Sileri, that a strategic plan for the reform of the health system will be presented as soon as possible and that it will address these problems in the first place. Only in this way will we be able to acknowledge the efforts made by health and social health workers, who are not heroes: Brecht has already been mentioned and we do not need heroes. On the other hand, we need to review contracts, we need to give a strategic solution to the organization of the professions, we need to call into question the position income and we need to recognise the strategic role of professions that often do not see their social role recognised. Finally, more general reasoning is needed, I would like to say cultural. We paid a price, colleagues and colleagues, too high to tell the public service as inefficiency and fannullance. They have shown us that this is not the case. We need to set up another narrative in relation to the social value of commitment and public service and the value of merit in the professions. I would like to stress this: merit. And from this point of view, we must have the courage to call into question all the incomes of positions: they are all and are not only those relating to the non-transparent management of the relationship between politics and health care tasks, but also those of the professional sectors. It's a first step. We have a lot to do. Let's start doing it because our service needs a kidney stroke. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u82	IORI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our last few months have been shaken by a health emergency, the most dramatic since the post-war period, which has put our health system to the test. In these very hard moments the country has come together on several occasions, with empathy and gratitude, around the health care staff, from doctors to nurses who with admirable self-denial have faced an unprecedented tsunami. Some of them have paid with their own lives and our gratitude goes to everyone. In these difficult months it is perhaps possible to renew also the therapeutic alliance made of trust and respect between doctors, teams and patients. A relationship that is based on taking charge of the patient with his fears and his frailties. Before this dramatic epidemic broke out, a growing number of attacks were spreading against health personnel and an alliance was breaking between insults, intimidation, physical assaults and verbal assaults. In the newspapers we read of nights of nightmares between screaming, threats and violence, which were consumed in some emergency room. There was literally talk of doctors under siege, a dramatic problem because, as unfortunately we have learned in recent months, the health experience and care, the care of the sick, affects the whole of society and plays an essential role. Its estate goes from the exploitation of resources, of women and men who constitute its backbone and who must be able to work safely. In a historical moment like this, in which social tensions are increasingly strong, the very relationships on which our communities are built cannot be blurred. The aggressions against health workers are particularly disturbing because it is about violence against those who take care of us in the fragile moments of the disease. According to an analysis by Anaao-Assomed, 65 percent of doctors claim to have been the victim of physical or verbal assaults. This impressive percentage rises to 80 percent for doctors serving in the emergency room or 118. In 2019 the official numbers spoke of over 1,000 episodes, regardless of the unreported attacks, which would lead us to triple these numbers. It is a real emergency, involving people who carry out care activities in emotional contexts, as well as in health, complex and that precisely for this reason must be more protected. There is no justification for this violence, we must condemn these conducts before and after the pandemic. In this sense, the measure under consideration, which concludes its parliamentary process today, is not only right but necessary. It will finally apply the extension of the same penalties provided for in the case of personal injuries caused to the public official, also to the staff of the health and social health professions in the performance of their duties. In addition, these professions will be protected, providing for a further aggravating factor for those who commit the event with violence or threat, precisely because of the profession of those who undergo it. It is also right that penalties should be severed in the event of serious or serious injuries, even to the detriment of any person who carries out ancillary care, health care or rescue activities. Thank you, therefore, to my fellow Members, who have strengthened and implemented some further important measures in the context of the parliamentary transition to the House. Colleagues, it is not enough, however, to tighten the penalties, if we do not act also at the cultural and organizational level of the health system, also through better organization of work shifts and training in the relationship and management of one's emotional life, the adoption of specific principles in safety protocols, the promotion of team work. It should not be forgotten, in fact, that prolonged exposure to pain, in the medical professions is known to be the source of great burnout and emotional difficulties, to the point that scientific literature even speaks of a higher suicide rate in doctors. We therefore welcome the measure, which seeks to provide answers, including through the promotion of training and information initiatives on the importance of respect for health work, through the implementation of institutional communication projects, the prevention of conflict situations and the establishment of a day of education and prevention against violence against health and health workers, in order to raise awareness of citizenship to a new culture, through greater information and training. It is important to stress that there are no care relationships without emotions: it is the attitude of those who flaunt emotional coldness, who often mask, under the apparent impassibility, a defense in front of the continuous contact with suffering. After all, Greek mythology already told us about the centaur Chiron, the wounded healer, struck by an arrow that had caused him an incurable wound, which every day, before going to teach the medical art to others, had to cure himself: to cure and take care of himself, in order to be able to take care of others. The health professions are complex and difficult and often the staff is not adequately prepared to recognize their emotions, but also to manage or contain the aggressiveness of patients or their families, who may not accept the pain of an inauspicious diagnosis or the death of a family member or psychiatric disease. The empathy or patience of caring is not always easy. Therefore, recognizing the emotional tones that come into play requires preparation, which only rarely becomes part of the educational baggage of the health professions. Let it be clear then that, if on the one hand they are certainly understandable, in some cases, the protest and the demand for attention and responsibility towards possible errors or to improve communication, on the other hand it is not acceptable that the exercise of the medical profession is the subject of aggression, hindered by dramatic and unjustified excesses. Let us not forget that the relationship between the sick and the doctor is a relationship between those who are ill and those who can heal them, so it must be based on mutual trust and respect. We hope that these months of great pain have given us the opportunity to rediscover and strengthen a pact; it is a cultural revolution, it would be a cultural revolution that on this occasion has made patients understand how much doctors can do and how important they are to them. It is therefore necessary to re-read with new gaze, with new eyes, the same path of health training, placing at the center of the relationship of care the people who, in their uniqueness, cannot be encased, classified, reduced to organs, because we are talking about bodies-person. In a perspective of humanization of services it is therefore necessary to strengthen the care of those who care (I repeat: to take care of those who care), for a professional action made certainly of technical skill and health competence, but also of existential wisdom. I therefore announce the PD Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u85	SICLARI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the text before the House today shows that, when there is political and institutional will, we can express the best possible legal synthesis. Without any controversy, the hope is that also on other issues of particular interest to the citizens of our country, such as the use of European funds that are definitely useful to give a broad breath to the economy of our country, you can reach the sharing of the objectives and therefore of the regulatory tools to achieve the goals set. As a doctor and as a Leader in the 12th Commission, I am happy to have made both a political and institutional contribution - I thank the President of the Forza Italia Group, Anna Maria Bernini - to the draft law under consideration, which contains important provisions for the protection of the safety of health and social health professionals. Let me address an affectionate and grateful thought to my medical colleagues and to the paramedic and social health personnel who, during the serious pandemic that struck us, have shown great professionalism, a sense of duty, self-denial and courage. All of them must receive our heartfelt thanks. Turning to the consideration of the merits of the measure under discussion today, Article 2 of the draft law provides for the establishment of a National Observatory on the safety of exhibitors health and social health professions, which will be an important tool to detect the situations of increased exposure to risk of medical and paramedical personnel, who often, unfortunately, besides thinking about saving the lives of others, are at the mercy of subjects who commit acts of violence against them. The draft law also provides for the promotion of initiatives aimed at informing the importance of respect for the work of workers in the health and social and health professions, as well as the worsening of penalties for cases of serious or serious personal injury to our health professionals. It also provides that crimes against health workers will be prosecuted on their own initiative and no longer only against the person who is offended. The establishment of the National Day of Education and Prevention against Violence against Health and Social Health Care Workers is also of particular importance. The activity of prevention and education, in all cases of socially deviant behaviors, is the main way, much more important than repressive and sanctioning activity: it is essential to transmit to the new generations that sense of respect and gratitude towards fundamental figures of our society such as teachers and doctors. Our fathers and grandparents lived this respect and this sense of gratitude and the social prestige that surrounded the figure of the doctor, like that of the teacher, was disenchanted by the level of profitability that today appears the only parameter of evaluation. Senator colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Forza Italia wanted to make a big contribution to the measure by presenting an agenda that commits the Executive to a precise and detailed monitoring of the effects of this bill, in order to modify and correct everything that might prove ineffective and inefficient. In particular, we have highlighted on the agenda that among the tasks of the Observatory referred to in Article 2 there is monitoring the implementation of the prevention and protection measures provided for in the framework on safety at work, including by promoting the use of video surveillance tools. We have pointed out that the recommendation to prevent acts of violence to the detriment of health workers of the Ministry of Health aims to encourage the analysis of workplaces and related risks, the adoption of initiatives and programmes to prevent acts of violence and/or mitigate their negative consequences and, therefore, the identification of the most appropriate safety conditions of hospital health care providers as places of work (well know what happens in the First Aid of our country every day). This must be seen as an imperative condition in order to safeguard the safest operation of the staff, without neglecting the safety of patients and users of hospital health facilities. The concern in fact is that, although some sort of re-evaluation of the image of doctors and nurses, who have become national heroes and warriors at the forefront, the phenomenon of violence against health workers is much more widespread and even growing. On 28 April, a few months ago, the World Health Organization, on the occasion of World Day for Health and Safety at Work, called on all governments, employers' organisations and trade unions, as well as the global community, to take urgent measures to strengthen the capabilities of nations to protect health at work and the safety of health workers. As the World Health Organisation points out, 8 to 38 percent of health workers in their careers suffer physical violence. The Government, expressing a favourable opinion on the agenda presented by us as an annex to the measure, has undertaken to assess the appropriateness, when monitoring the effects of the measures under consideration, of providing for further measures to allow a wider and more widespread use of video surveillance tools in health facilities and environments identified by law, as well as in other areas, such as safety in childcare facilities, the elderly and people with disabilities. He also undertook to facilitate the conclusion of the parliamentary process of legislative proposals aimed at preventing and countering conduct of abuse and abuse, including through the use of video surveillance tools. Given the joint work and the acceptance of the agenda presented by us, the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group, President-UDC, will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u88	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, the League will vote yes and therefore, by pressing the green button, it will approve this work, which in 2018 was also promoted by the then Interior Minister Matteo Salvini. Already from the title it was in fact understood what should have been the objectives of the League and that Government of this legislature, namely: Safety provisions for practitioners in the health and social and health professions in the performance of their duties It's known that dynamics change. After the implications of the last few months, we have to ask ourselves - legitimately - whether the semantic concept contained in the word "security" is clear to you. The bill under consideration was to be the starting point, not the point of arrival. [[Applause]] It was meant to represent the concrete and conscious will for the protection of health and social health personnel. But are you really convinced that promoting good practice and setting up an observatory is really enough to protect doctors, nurses, health workers and the whole industry on the ground? No, gentlemen, it is not enough to sit in an office with representatives of trade unions and trade unions and regions, a representative of the National Agency for Regional Health Services, and representatives of the Ministries of the Interior, Defence, Justice, Labour and Social Policy, the professional bodies concerned, the sectoral organisations and patient associations. During the second reading examination in the Chamber of Deputies you also included the INPS: with the addition of a couple of task forces we could have said that you would be truly coherent people! [[Applause]] Article 8 of the measure establishes the National Day of Education and Prevention against Violence against Health and Social Health Care Workers. Nice! But do you think a day on the calendar is a real help for those who slap, spit, stab, rape and shot? Of course, I am talking about the E.R. and mental health centers, which today are still a taboo that no one has started talking about. [[Applause]] This government has a strange way of understanding security with the measure under consideration: on the one hand, to aggression and crime committed, it protects itself by forcing health companies to form a civil part; on the other, however, the amendments that required video surveillance and a fixed police garrison, even with one agent, are rejected, not so much to be ready to intervene in an emergency, but to act as a bollard. This is prevention. [[Applause]] These demands of the League were rejected both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate (these amendments I myself tabled) because they involve financial burdens. But how, with three budget deviations of EUR 100 billion, has no one thought of reviewing their position in favour of and having to protect health and social security personnel? You wouldn't have dropped the tin crown. Yet, EUR 30 million has already been allocated per year, from 2020 to 2024. It would appear that the priority for you is observers, good practices, memory days and the promotion of information. Basically, a waltz tour; but you're in the government and you've also surrounded yourself with an army of 450 other people! [[Applause.]] We shall vote yes, because we hope that this will only be the prelude to a sincere takeover. Now that we have been upset by the Covid-19 experience and have survived the same, now that we are even more aware, this act cannot be the best that the current Government can offer doctors, nurses and operators, because, as it is, this act is not even the least. Having said that, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote confidently in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u91	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a duty to finally hand over to the country a measure of civilization that is no longer procrastinable. I have undertaken myself to speed up the final process of this bill, which has a strong social value and represents a precise political duty to safeguard the safety of those who protect our lives and protect that right to health enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution. The issue of attacks on health workers is now a worrying phenomenon, a real emergency if we think that every year about 1,400 attacks are reported: almost four per day. In addition, these are partial data, because operators are often reluctant to bring structural deficiencies to light or to interrupt work or even to cause harm to attackers. The real episodes are many more: it is estimated, in fact, that more than three thousand cases of aggressions to doctors and nurses in a year. In addition to physical aggression, all behaviors detrimental to the dignity of health professionals, including insults and threats, should also be considered; behaviors that cannot be underestimated. The highest concentration of these cases is in the Mezzogiorno, with 72% in the South and in the islands. 80% of these attacks concern staff engaged in emergency and emergency departments, both hospital and territorial, mostly in public structures; yet another test, this, of the deep interregional gap caused by inadequate policies, which have dismantled the territorial networks that were to be used as a filter. It is thought that in the South, in recent years, 42 small hospitals have been closed. Policies that have generated the overcrowding of our nosocomi. and therefore of the First Aid, and have transformed the short intensive observations into real wards of hospitality. Those who work to save lives cannot do so in conditions of danger of their own safety; conditions created by years of cuts, which have produced long waiting lists and taken on late and inadequate, which are often the cause of exasperation of users. Unpleasant cuts, which have mowed rights and possibilities, occurred in a sector that is fundamental to the well-being of a country, in which we should never stop investing and which should be a priority for all political forces, including the one I belong to. The Covid-19 emergency has shown even more, if any, how decisive human resources are for the National Health Service. We called the heroes, we dedicated exciting words to them, we restored a relationship of trust with them because it was evident that, thanks to all of them, thousands of lives were saved. Now, however, we owe them concrete acts and no longer just promises, because those who save lives must not risk their own lives. This is a morally unacceptable paradox. In this regard, I would like to urge all my colleagues in the majority and opposition to resume as soon as possible the debate on the legal shield for doctors who worked in the lanes during the most difficult months of the Covid emergency. The debate has stopped because many, in addition to protecting the staff in the trenches, have tried to put a shield also to the managements, who, in our opinion, must assume responsibility for the failure to plan to manage the emergency and for the failure to be able to secure first of all their own staff. This law against aggressions in health, strongly wanted by the former Minister for Health Giulia Grillo, has been the subject of a long work in the Health Commission in the Senate, where important changes have been included, including the procedure of office. We have worked tirelessly involving all the actors in the field through a long series of hearings that has led to the integration of the basic text with measures deemed essential by the health professionals themselves, including, for example, the changes to the penal code that extend to all cases of aggression to the workers a health or social-health profession the aggravated penalties provided for the corresponding hypotheses of injuries caused to an officer always providing, as I said, the procedure of office and without the need for there to be a complaint from the person offended. In this regard, I also respond to Senator Zaffini because in this way we have provided for treatment comparable to that reserved to an official public receiving the address of the Court of Cassation, which establishes the state of public official not with reference to the entire function devolved by law, but with regard to the individual moments when the activity itself is actually exercised. In this way, healthcare professionals will benefit from all the safeguards provided for public officials, but without the burden. In addition, the establishment of the Observatory on the safety of health professionals will be valuable, thanks to which it will be possible not only to monitor the episodes of violence, but also to promote studies and analyses in order to be able to put in place appropriate measures for the removal of risk factors in the most exposed environments. The House had been introduced into the Commission with the obligation to establish a civil part by ASLs and hospitals, which, in my opinion, was an important addition, but then with a deleterious amendment by the opposition in this House we returned to the previous text. Another crucial point in this law is the implementation of institutional communication projects on the importance of respect for the work of workers in a health profession. This is a fundamental aspect because to build a new vision there is always a need for cultural change and citizens must be an active and conscious part of this new vision. For example, I like to think that, responsibly and thanks to the correct involvement and information, all citizens become aware that using the mask and respecting the distance is also to prevent those we call heroes from having to wear the "hunters" again and bring on the face the bruises and signs of pain and fatigue to the limit of endurance. ( [[Applause).]] Clearly it will not be enough a law to weave a solid network of protection around our health care staff, but we must commit ourselves to building that alliance between doctor and patient that was once firm and that was then damaged by cuts, by the few means of public health and by those who have not missed the opportunity to make it fall on the operators every responsibility, without understanding that the strengthening of the National Health Service must start first of all from the revision of the criteria of appointment of the managers. If suitable access routes have not been built in a company or hospital, it has not been possible to affect the waiting lists, it has not been provided to its employees all the weapons necessary to assist patients in the best way, then the responsibility is for those who have not been able to program. There are no sudden health experts, a regional course of a few hours is not enough to guarantee access to the list of directors-general: this is not meritocracy, but it is mortification of merit to save membership and political faith. At the beginning of this legislature, I filed a bill that reviews precisely the criteria for the appointment of directors-general, administrative and health care to ensure that the heads of ASL and hospitals are the most experienced and the most capable. That bill is still in the Commission and today I urge the Government to take charge of this reform, committing itself to guaranteeing the prerequisite to provide our excellence with all the tools and conditions in order to be able to carry out their delicate task to the best. We must fight to eliminate political interference in the system of appointments. We need to review the medical training path. I am sure that my colleagues will also have the same interest in approving this reform in the Commission as soon as possible. We need to strengthen territorial medicine, revolutionize emergency-emergency, level regional gaps, focus on high-quality public health and private health that acts as a crutch... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u92	Conclude, Senator Castellone.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u93	CASTELLONE (M5S). A health care that absorbs resources without providing services. The vote in favour that I am voting for today, on behalf of my Movimento 5 Star Group, stems from the awareness that it will be above all this commitment and this vision to protect the right to health provided by our Constitutional Charter and to allow our National Health Service to be able to face the challenges that will come, starting precisely from the protection and enhancement of all the staff. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u94	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I note that the draft law has been passed unanimously. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u95	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1086. The rapporteur, Senator Taverna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u96	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Defence Cooperation Agreement signed between Italy and Argentina in September 2016. This Agreement, which follows similar measures already examined in the past by the Chambers, responds to the need to increase bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries, with the aim of improving mutual understanding on security issues. The text, which consists of a preamble and 12 articles, after having set out the principles and objectives of the understanding (Article 1), identifies the implementation procedures and areas of bilateral cooperation, referring in particular to the preparation of appropriate annual and multiannual plans and to the organisation of mutual visits of delegations and exchanges of experience between experts, as well as participation in training courses (Article 2). The fields of cooperation include the areas of common security and defence policy, research and development and acquisition of defence products and services, peacekeeping operations under the auspices of the United Nations, the organisation and use of the Armed Forces, and military training and health. The draft ratification law consists of five articles. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 of the draft law calculates them in EUR 5,504 every other year from 2020 due only to mission expenses. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with the European Union's legal order and with the other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u97	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u100	PETRENGA (FdI). Mr President, the agreement whose ratification we are dealing with, as established, aims to increase bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries in order to consolidate their respective defensive capacities and to improve mutual understanding on security issues. Its objectives and objectives are acceptable, as it also aims to induce positive indirect effects in some productive and commercial sectors of the two countries. In fact, its inspiring principles aim to encourage, facilitate and develop cooperation in the field of defence, on the basis of the principles of reciprocity, equality and mutual interest, in accordance with their respective legal systems and with the international commitments made by the parties, in full respect of their supranational organisations and in particular, for the Italian part, of the European Union's legal order and, for the Argentine part, of the Union of the South American Nations. This agreement crystallises the fields of greatest interest of the established cooperation, including the areas of common security and defence policy, research, development and acquisition of defence products and services. It has also affected the fields of participation in international peacekeeping and humanitarian operations, as well as training, education and military exercises. The provisions governing matters relating to the jurisdiction of staff hosted in their respective countries, the protection of intellectual property, the security of information and the resolution of disputes, the discipline of which is always based on the principle of loyal cooperation between the countries concerned and in full respect, both from the point of view of legality and compatibility, of the rules and of the European Union's legal order. This vision of cooperation is consistent with the overall strategy for foreign policy aimed at effective common defence of the European Union through permanent cooperation between the Member States involved. It is for these reasons that Brothers of Italy is in favour of the ratification of this Agreement, which contributes to maintaining ever more cohesive relations between the two countries, historically linked by common Christian principles and values. We therefore hope that the same will represent the natural continuation of a bilateral relationship that has now been consolidated over the years, so much so as to represent a visible and significant reality of cooperation between the two countries. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u103	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, in declaring the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour, I ask for permission to deposit the full text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u104	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u107	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I, too, would like to ask you to hand over the full text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. Allow me, however, to emphasize only one small aspect: between Italy and Argentina there is a continuous collaboration and is believed in common values. Among other things, there are other already active agreements, including the agreement on aerospace cooperation. 11:57 a.m. (JACOBBE followed). It should also be stressed that more than 900,000 Italians live in Argentina; it is one of the largest Italian communities abroad. Also for these reasons, I think that this ratification only increases and nouns the proximity between the two countries. The Democratic Party will therefore vote in favour of ratification of this agreement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u108	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u111	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Treaty that we are about to ratify establishes a Cooperation Agreement between Italy and Argentina in the military field and its ultimate aim is to strengthen military cooperation between the two countries. These ratifications are extremely important for several reasons. First of all, they can serve as flywheels in causing indirect effects from the commercial point of view, as they concern a sector, such as the military one, which in all respects is an important production and economic chain of our country. The second point of importance is that bilateral military agreements such as this - but the same can be said for the other types of bilateral cooperation agreement - provide Italy with a very important instrument of diplomacy, which risks being obscured in multilateral contexts. Italy in the field of cooperation, whether private or public, remains an excellence. These agreements must be encouraged and intensified, in order to restore the image of Italy's international interest, all the more so in a strategic region for us and for our diplomacy such as the Latin American one. Let us not forget the many Italian citizens present in Latin America: we are talking about about about a million people, a number that should remind us that situations that occur thousands of kilometers and that we tend to underestimate in reality concern us closely. Let us think only of the cry for help that our Italian community in Venezuela continues to address us and that too often has remained unheard. As I said, the Latin American region is important, but the relationship with Argentina is even more important. Think that in this country there is a community of Italian citizens who almost a million people: I would say an additional Italian Region. It is essential that in contexts like these Italy fully exploits its capacity for soft power in the cultural and military fields, passing through the commercial outlets that never as today we need to intensify, after the economic crisis caused by the health crisis, which has invested our country more. Having strong partners and reliable synergies in all regional contexts must be a prerogative for our country and Italy has all the cards to pursue this purpose. As usual, when we talk about national interest in the development of our defence industry and true international cooperation, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group is present and will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u114	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this Agreement aims to increase bilateral cooperation between the armed forces of Italy and Argentina in order to consolidate their defensive capacities, with positive repercussions in some productive and commercial sectors of the two countries. With Argentina we have an ancient friendly relationship and we are linked above all by that affection that binds the brothers: more than 900,000 Italian citizens live today in Argentina, a community to which we owe a lot and to which, I repeat, we are very attached. At the time of its entry into force, this Agreement will replace that of defence cooperation, signed by the two countries in Rome on 6 October 1992 and ratified by Italy by Law No 173 of 1996, which entered into force on 21 July 1997. The areas of bilateral cooperation relate to the preparation of appropriate annual and multiannual plans, the organisation of mutual visits by delegations, exchanges of experience between experts and participation in military courses and exercises. In particular, the fields of cooperation concern: common security and defence policy; research and development, logistical support and acquisition of defence products and services; intellectual property and patents; humanitarian and peace-keeping operations; organisation and use of the Armed Forces, as well as facilities and equipment of military units and personnel management; training and training in the military field; military health and military sport. Finally, I would like to point out that, with the abolition (in 2008) of the Military Justice Code, Argentina - already abolitionist, in 1984, for ordinary crimes - has definitively removed the death penalty from its own system. The agreement, in addition to strengthening the link between our country and Argentina, constitutes, therefore, an intense intergovernmental activity suitable to simplify the procedure of authorization to contractual negotiations and to export and import of equipment, without prejudice to the prohibitions imposed by law n. 185 of 1990. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of Forza Italia, noting that, at last, the whole House is aware of the importance of establishing relations also in the field of armaments. It is true that there is an important conversion also on the part of certain sectors - I never expected - that finally begin to understand that, if we want to achieve peace, we must also arrive at an armed defence. He said Latin wisdom - we must not forget it - vis pacem, para bellum. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the draft law ratifying and implementing the agreement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u117	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am voting in favour of this measure. I take this opportunity to say that the relationship between Italy and Argentina has its roots in the presence of many of our fellow countrymen in that country and, even if the clarity of this relationship is sometimes questioned, it appears increasingly in its brightness. Allow me to say that, in recent months, the newly elected vice president of the Republic, Mrs Kirchner, has said very unpleasant things about Italy; she has uttered phrases that certainly our country does not deserve and that I believe the Argentine citizens do not think. Fortunately, Mr President of the newly elected Republic has restored those sentiments of affection, friendship and esteem towards Italy and this feeling has been supported by an official meeting - just after that statement - with the excellent Italian Ambassador Manzo. I believe that this occasion, as far as I am concerned, must coincide with the affirmation of the feelings of friendship and closeness to the Argentine people, who at this moment, also because of the winter season, is fighting against the coronavirus, but compared to other South American countries seems to have better results. We vote with great conviction on the agreement which is rightly being brought to our attention today.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u120	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, we are about to approve the draft law ratifying and implementing the Cooperation Agreement in the field of defence: a Gov to Gov between the Italian Republic and the Argentine Republic, done in Rome on 12 September 2016. A similar bill of ratification had already been examined in December 2017 by the Senate Foreign Commission in Act No 2969, but the examination could not see its conclusion because it ended the XVII legislature. This agreement follows similar measures that have been examined in the past and responds to the need to increase bilateral cooperation between the Italian and Argentine Armed Forces with the precise aim of consolidating their defensive capabilities and improving mutual understanding on security issues. The bilateral text, as was well illustrated by the rapporteur, consists of a preamble and 12 articles; after expressing principles and aims of understanding, it identifies the implementation modalities and areas of cooperation, referring in particular to the preparation of appropriate annual and multiannual plans, the organisation of mutual visits of delegations, exchanges of experience between experts and participation in military courses and exercises. It is therefore of fundamental importance to stress that the areas of common security, defence policy, research, development and purchase of defence materials and services, peacekeeping operations with the support of the United Nations, the organisation and use of armed forces, the training of defence materials and services, and military health, are among the areas of cooperation. It is therefore clear that the text identifies the categories of defence materials concerned by possible bilateral collaboration, providing for the commitment of the parties not to re-export to third countries the material acquired without the prior approval of the transferor party. While it is true, therefore, that the agreement in question is intended to increase bilateral cooperation, it cannot go into the background that the signing of such bilateral acts also aims to induce positive effects and indirect effects in different productive and commercial sectors of the two countries. Between Italy and Argentina, as already explained by other colleagues, there are historical, cultural and social links, unique entrepreneurial ties that it is impossible not to take into account, starting from the phenomenon of the historical Italian emigration to the territory of the current Republic of Argentina, passing through bilateral trade that, in addition to being concentrated on food products, also concerns machinery and scientific instruments of various types. Italy is therefore an important investor in Argentina and when the Conte Government has installed itself, many have wondered what attitude it would take towards the defence of our country, in many have worried or even intended to speculate on the doubts to instill, on how the Movimento 5 Stars, because of the strong bond with its electorate, would have dealt with the issues related to the Armed Forces. Well, many have had to rethink. Eliminating unnecessary expenses in every field, including Defense, is and remains for the Movimento 5 Stars a polar star, but leadership is aware of the international balances and the need for the defense of the Country, to be valorized and encouraged to the right extent. I therefore refer to the importance of Article 6, which lists precisely the defence materials that can be the subject of cooperation, without prejudice to the respect of the national laws of both countries. I recall, for Italy, the Law of 9 July 1990, No 185, on exports of armament materials as well as the prohibition of export of acquired material which is of fundamental and direct importance. Before announcing the vote of the Movimento 5 Star Group, on cooperation, I cannot help but open a split - and I ask the House to be careful - on what happened yesterday in Beirut. Lebanon has once again been torn apart by two strong explosions that have led to many wounded and above all to the injury of two Italian soldiers of the Navy to whom we, as the Movimento 5 Star Group, want to bring our solidarity and our wish for prompt recovery. [[Applause]] I still take a few seconds to make our own, my own, the words of Minister Di Maio: "Italy is close to Lebanese friends at this tragic moment. Our thoughts go to the families of the victims to whom we express our deep condolences, and to the wounded people to whom we wish a prompt recovery. For our part I add a strong and great embrace for all the Italian contingent engaged in Lebanon. [[Applause]] I shall end by repeating my vote in favour of this ratification of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u121	I would refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause. Comments by Senator Croatti.]] Excuse me, Senator Croatti? We'll let the Secretaries know, okay?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u124	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is still the case. That's right: I start my speech with'still', since Minister D'Incà has just contacted the Group Leaders, saying that the Government has noticed, alas a little late, that on 10 August the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers expires and therefore, by law, it is necessary to come to the Assembly with communications and respect the fact that first it is given information to the whole Assembly. Since we held a meeting of the Conference of the Leaders yesterday and have planned a meeting of the Leaders today, we in the League are clear: we must come to the Assembly to do our duty, respecting the law. That is what must be done: be clear to everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u125	I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m., which will resume with the resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution. (The sitting was suspended at 12.16 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u128	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak. Unfortunately, Senator Bruno Dettori, an essentially good person, has failed. It is not easy to talk about someone who has never wanted to turn the spotlight on himself, but who, in any case, has managed to give much to his land and to the community in which he lived. Bruno Dettori, Sassarese, was a university professor of the prestigious agricultural faculty of the University of Sassari (with a short interval, in which he taught at the university in Eritrea). He has been the author of countless publications in national and international journals of hydrogeology, hydrochemistry and water supply. His career was a brilliant professional career, but he did not prevent him from cultivating his deep passion for politics, in which he made the pledge, having been City and Regional Councillor, Senator and Undersecretary for the Environment in the legislature 2006-2008 with the Government Prodi. This was his brilliant resume of political activity, but by Bruno Dettori I think it's better to remember the human trait, which led him to become an important point of reference for all those who knew him or had the pleasure to collaborate with him. With a modesty and humility out of the ordinary, he has always manifested his ability to listen to anyone who wants to speak with him, even the weakest and the categories unjustly considered last. To all he gave advice and manifested closeness and consideration, striving to find a solution to their problems. I cannot fail to recall a fundamental characteristic of Bruno Dettori, of whom I have been a friend for several years. Once he left the institutional roles, he took on the role of a noble father within his party, continuing to cultivate that passion for politics that has characterized his life and activity in favour of the community, giving himself up for the generational change. This has been a very important feature, thanks to which it has helped many young people to emerge in political life, thus favouring, as I said, the generational replacement of the political class. He has always striven to resolve internal conflicts within the party, but also conflicts with other political forces. He did this with a continuous search for dialogue with everyone. Even in the most difficult moments there was a call of support and encouragement to hold up the confrontation. Those who have had the pleasure of knowing him cannot forget his sincere, open and captivating smile, his contagious and stimulating optimism and his profound humanity. On behalf of the whole Gruppo Italia Viva, I express my condolences, regret and closeness to Mrs. Isa, to her children Toti and Andrea and to all those family members who have been lucky enough to share their lives with him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u131	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, my speech goes hand in hand with that of my colleague Mr Cucca, with a small difference, because I had the opportunity to work with Regional Councillor Bruno Dettori from 1994 to 2001: years of particular political intensity, during which, while militating on different fronts, we could find a synthesis with him on the projects that could qualify for the island. I had heard about it just arrived at the Regional Council because he, before this adventure, had been City Councillor from 1990 to 1994 and was highly esteemed as a politician because of the intensity he devoted to his territory. Afterwards, in 2001 he was elected senator, while I mayor of Cagliari and from time to time we felt and discussed the issues of municipal interest that I reflected to him, senator, to have also a side, although belonging to different parties, being characteristic of him - I hope also mine - to be able to talk beyond the party militants. I am very sorry to have to offer my condolences to the family, because Sardinia has certainly lost a point of reference in politics. In fact, after his direct commitment to politics, he continued with a political formation of several young people, some of whom today - perhaps less young - sit between the benches of Parliament and others in the City Council. His training activity was really intense. I appreciate Mr Cucca's words about his human trait and his dedication to the last, since he was his social life in terms of solidarity. In expressing the grief of Forza Italia to the whole family, we remember the figure and I am sure that not only Sassari will miss it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u132	I thank Senator Cucca and Senator Floris for this memory, which I join in my mourning. Having been lucky enough to have met him personally, I cannot forget his ability to be a good person and the love he had for his land, Sardinia.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u133	The next item is the resolution on the setting up in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution raised by the Turin Ordinary Court, VI Criminal Section. By appeal, lodged on 20 February 2020, the ordinary tribunal of Turin, VI Criminal Section, raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State against the Senate of the Republic in order to resolve by which the Assembly, at its meeting of 9 January 2019, declared the indisputability, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, of the opinions given by Stefano Esposito, Senator at the time of the facts, in the context of a criminal proceeding pending before the same ordinary court of Turin. The application was found admissible by the Constitutional Court, by order of 26 May 2020, No 148, lodged at the Registry on 10 July 2020. This order was notified to the Senate on 30 July 2020. At its meeting on 4 August 2020, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities issued a majority opinion in favour of the constitution of the Senate before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the above-mentioned conflict of attribution. The President of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, Senator Gasparri, may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u134	Mr President, I am speaking briefly to confirm what you have said. This is a conflict of attribution involving Senator Esposito. The House discussed this matter in the manner and with the results you have mentioned, recognizing the existence of the case referred to in Rule 68. Last night, the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, by majority, proposed to support the decision to set itself up in court to defend the deliberations of the Senate. I remind myself that is the practice that the Senate generally follows. Therefore, on behalf of the majority of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, I call for the Senate to be held in court, confirming last night's assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u135	One speaker per group may speak on the conclusions of the Junta for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u138	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, it will take me much less time than you have given me to say that the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of President Gasparri's proposal. I believe that the Senate not only has the right, but also has the duty to defend its deliberations, if it becomes necessary, in case, as in this case, they are challenged by a conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court. We are voting in favour not only because we believe that it is our power and our right, but also because we believe that, apart from the way we voted on the decision on insinability, when it is a decision of the Senate, the Senate as a whole has a duty to defend and support it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u141	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, today's explanation of vote could begin and end with two assumptions: this is a decision voted unanimously by the Council and, as my previous colleague rightly said, the Senate is institutionally required to defend its deliberations. On the other hand, having been voted unanimously, it is a strengthened assumption. Personally - I do not think I am the only one and, indeed, I am certainly in line with the vast majority of this House - I believe that, if there is no unanimity, no matter what the substance, once a decision has been taken, it is defended. I will take very little time to add a consideration. We have had several opportunities for discussion in this House of everything that has to do with the prerogatives of Parliament, its members and the Government in relation to the other powers of the State and, therefore, with the institutional dialectic written in the Constitution. I would like briefly to highlight an approach that should be in line with our orientation when we decide whether or not to authorise or evaluate. I am referring to the view that being a Member of Parliament or a Member of a Government is a status. When we make these decisions, including today's, we are not defending a status of the best or the best, but a prerogative and a function. What is written in the Constitution is to defend the function of the parliamentarians and, therefore, the freedom of the parliamentarians is to defend this kind of activity. That is why we can, by assessing concrete cases, come up with a number of considerations. If this is the spirit, it also strengthens the autonomy of those powers that, in this case, see us in a relationship of dialectic contrast of those who claim an exclusive. Perhaps this point may seem superfluous, but I do not think it is in the cultural debate that has developed and is developing above all in recent years on the prerogatives of Members of Parliament. In order to demand respect, which we must ask for, Parliament's authority and freedom must always be able to place this type of debate in the dialectic between the powers of the State and, if this is the dialectic, it also strengthens the autonomy of the other powers with which we go to confront ourselves in this institutional framework. I should like to recall and stress this because we will certainly have other more substantial opportunities from this point of view of discussion. The Constitutional Charter has this direction because, coming out of a period of authoritarianism in which autonomy, independence and freedom had been cancelled, the Constituents had a very strong concern that political power should be placed not as power as such, but in this type of dialectic. Today I think that the debate is very topical, having also changed a national and international framework of forces in the field and with a great possibility of influence and determination of public and private life of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u144	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the Lega Group, I preannounce the vote in favour of the Constitution before the Constitutional Court before the Senate. We are talking about a transmission of acts to the Senate that suspends a trial by the Turin court. The Junta thoroughly analyzed them through a detailed investigation in the day of yesterday in particular. With regard to the present case, it was considered unanimously that all the conditions laid down in the Constitutional Court's own case-law were fulfilled in order to ensure that the prerogative of inindacability was configurable. I would like to recall in particular that the above-mentioned court asked the Constitutional Court to declare that it was not for the Senate of the Republic to assess the conduct that could be debited from Senator Esposito, as it is not related to the provision in Article 68 of the Constitution, also requesting the annulment of the decision of insindacability adopted by the Senate on 9 January 2019. The principle of separation of powers constitutes a fundamental postulate of a democratic state and presupposes, from the time of the Enlightenment, a reciprocal autonomy of the various powers: of the legislative one, of which the exclusive interpreter is Parliament, of the executive one and finally of the judicial one. This basic perspective permeates the system of immunity, which precisely serve to prevent or prevent intruders or undue trespasses on the part of the judicial authority in the prerogatives of Parliament. The Junta, operating in the wake of the Constitutional Court itself, confined the Senate's union only to profiles of manifest implausibility and also to cases in which these profiles emerge by acta without the need for investigation. Therefore, bearing in mind the words of Article 68 of the Constitution - Members of Parliament - cannot be called upon to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the exercise of their functions - I believe - as already anticipated on behalf of the Lega Group - that the prerogative of the unindicability that the Senate will have to defend in the conflict of attribution in question is certainly conceivable. I therefore outline the need for the Senate to come to court in order to assert its own reasons and prerogatives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u147	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, colleagues and members of the Government, today the Assembly is called upon to rule on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic on the conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, raised by the ordinary tribunal of Turin, in relation to the resolution with which in this Chamber in January was declared the unassailable for some statements made by the senator, at the time of the facts, Stefano Esposito, thus interpreting the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. The action that was the subject of the resolution was the statements made during a radio interview issued in January 2014 on the clashes of the TAV Torino-Lion. In the aforementioned interview, Esposito, referring to an intimidating episode of which he was victim, pointed to Dr. Livio Pepino as a potential moral mandator, who denounced him for aggravated defamation in the press. At first glance, it could be considered that the Senate should in any case be constituted before the Constitutional Court in order to defend the positions taken, regardless of the case under consideration, thus automatically without focusing attention on whether or not to do so. We of the Movimento 5 Stars want instead to break these automatisms dictated by old political equilibriums and instead want to analyze the case in an objective and in-depth way to evaluate the real reasons and the opportunity of this constitution in court, because we are convinced that behind the automatisms we can hide shortcuts and we can camp excuses to justify privileges for the political class, to the disadvantage of the simple citizens and, therefore, to the disadvantage of justice and truth. In the meantime, I would like to remind this House that the Constitutional Court is perpetuating the application of the principle (i.e. immunity under Article 68) within a well-defined boundary which is the functional link. The functional link consists in linking the declarations and political and parliamentary activity made in the Senate with the political activity carried out outside the seat of the debate. For this reason intra and extramoenia declarations must be close in time and comparable in content. By translating the concept into other words, the parliamentarians cannot avail themselves of the immunity granted by the Constitutional Charter for purposes other than those dependent on its function; they cannot therefore benefit from it in order to hide personal attacks on political opponents or simply against those who have opinions other than their own. The statements must therefore be close in time. Were they? No, they were from the previous year, more than six months before the act took place. Above all, statements must be comparable in content. Were they? To us it does not seem so true that the speeches made in the Chamber against Turin-Lion have a substantial correspondence with the accusation made to the former magistrate that he was the moral sender of the attack only because he wrote a book that supported the thesis opposed to that of the then Senator Esposito. In this case, the accusation of being the moral sender of the positioning of Molotov bottles in front of the senator's door to a person who was not even a protester or activist no TAV, but simply a person of opinion contrary to that of Esposito who expressed a thought and for this opinion she was accused of being the sender of a serious act such as putting human life in danger by an explosion. This specific accusation therefore appears only artificially assimilable in its content to the senator's parliamentary activity, as provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution. At this point, therefore, it is necessary to reason if we believe that it is appropriate that the Senate should be set up before the Constitutional Court, which does not mean simply to be present, but means to defend the resolution taken, to argue, to support the correctness of the granting of the inindacability, of the granting of immunity, insisting in order to deprive the judge of the possibility of any judgment on the actions committed by Senator Esposito, retracing the in-depth evaluation that we already made months ago. In January, on this basis, we saw the opportunity not to grant immunity. In fact, the House did not speak unanimously to grant it, but there were many against it, I think I recall that there were 81. Of those opposed, almost all (75) were precisely the Movimento 5 Stars, but even now we stand still and continue not to recognize, now as then, the existence of the functional link between the statements made on radio and those made in this House. Even the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, in judgment n. 59 of 2018, has established that the very tenor of the sentences pronounced by the parliamentarians is in itself sufficient to exclude the application of the unindicability of Article 68, just as insults and defamations cannot be because in some way linked to the political battles of which parliamentarians are carried. Let the Constitutional Court examine the acts, the accounts of Junta and the Senate's resolution, which it can already do in the absence of the resistant party, having already all the tools to evaluate the interpretation of the Constitution carried out here. We do not insist on stretching Article 68 of the Constitution to turn it into a shield of privileges: when you do the parliamentarians, you do the parliamentarians, but outside this function we are all citizens and we are all equal before the law. In conclusion, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic on the conflict of attribution between the powers of the State raised by the ordinary tribunal of Turin, I declare the vote against the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u150	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I did not mean to speak, but let's say that I was pulled by the hair by another intervention. I would like to say first of all that we are not defending Senator Esposito here, because Senator Esposito's defence story - let us call it what we want - has already been thoroughly examined first in Junta and then in the Senate Chamber. It seems to me very wrong, therefore, to recall Senator Esposito's activity that - I would like to remind you, because I was there in the last parliamentary term - he spoke on those issues in this House a thousand times and because of his speeches he was threatened and still lives under guard for the threats he received for himself and for his children. So calling Senator Esposito's business back here seems really unfair to me. Here we are talking about defending the prerogatives of the Senate, which has taken a decision that must be defended in the competent fora, respecting the roles. [[Applause]] As long as we have a democratic system in Italy, even before the Constitutional Court, the parties who are present have the right to defence; on the one hand there will be those who have challenged, with their defenders, and on the other hand there will be the Senate, which rightly has to be set up to defend the decisions that had been taken. So no defence of prerogatives; Article 68 is something else than what we are talking about. We have already discussed this and we have already talked about it; it seems to me that this issue must be exhausted. I therefore vote in favour of the proposal to appoint a lawyer before the Constitutional Court. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u151	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic before the Constitutional Court in order to resist in the aforementioned conflict of attribution raised by the ordinary tribunal of Turin, VI criminal section. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate, for the constitution and representation in court of the Senate, to one or more lawyers of the free forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u152	The next item is the debate on document XXIII, No 4. The report has already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Berutti to explain the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to explain the report on the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 and the waste cycle, which was unanimously approved by the Committee of Inquiry into the waste cycle on 8 July. One of the side aspects of the health emergency from Covid-19 that appeared immediately relevant was the impact that the pandemic would have on the waste, both in relation to the consequences of the containment and contrasting action of the pandemic itself and with regard to the implications that the massive increase in the use of personal protective devices and of the different tools aimed at facing and living with the coronavirus could entail. Aspects that bind to the management of hospital household waste and products at the workplace. These are elements that have appeared immediately relevant and in relation to which the different actors involved in the management of the waste cycle, in particular the regions, have put in place a series of actions. In view of this situation, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences considered it necessary to take timely action, in order to deepen what has happened during the most acute emergency months and to offer Parliament, public decision-makers and various levels of government, the productive world and citizens, a picture of what has happened and some useful elements in the future in the management of so-called covid waste and beyond. As far as the working method is concerned, in addition to the timeliness, the other key element that inspired the Commission's approach was that of the maximum openness to the listening and transposition of the indications received from the interlocutors, identified between public and private subjects with competences in the waste cycle, from the Ministry of the Environment to ISPRA, from the Higher Institute of Health to the Ministry of Health, from the representatives of the associative world of the companies in the sector to the Public Prosecutor General at the Court of Cassation. With regard to the content of the report, after a framework of the general regulatory environment of the emergency, the document naturally focuses on waste interventions, an aspect on which, apart from the elements of merit detailed in the report, it seems useful to point out from a proactive point of view that, from the point of view of the method, it has emerged the use of heterogeneous sources, not always of a regulatory nature, as well as modalities and a dialectic of intervention between the State and the regions with respect to which, in the future, a greater coordination and a less propensity to open up than derogations rules could be useful. Turning to the effects of the epidemiological emergency on the production and management of waste reconstructed in the report, the emergency in its most acute phase has led to a decrease in the production of waste in general, a decrease that has not alleviated the structural deficits of the national plant system which, on the contrary, have seen the effects of the shortage of possible destinations for specific types of waste currently not managed on the national territory due to the absence of a specific plant equipment or an economic chain of the treatment of the properly constructed matter. It is also important to point out that, although it has obviously not alleviated these structural deficits, the emergency has not led to significant interruptions or alterations in waste management and the companies and workers in the sector, despite some stages of difficulties caused by the need to supply personal protective equipment, have contributed positively to organisational interventions that allow the maintenance of adequate levels of service. The effects on the production of waste and its management have therefore primarily concerned the use of materials induced by the need to contain contagion, likely to produce, both an increase in the production of waste from materials such as disposable products in the trade, in the catering, in the packaging of food products, and widespread abandonment phenomena, in particular facial masks and gloves. Starting from these elements, which I have only outlined here and which I refer to in reading the full text of the report, it seems irrelevant to me to point out that, as in other sectors, for waste the emergency Covid has represented a kind of lens of magnification of dynamics and aspects structurally present before the emergency and of which it will be necessary to take into account in perspective for punctual interventions by various competent subjects. As highlighted, in fact, what emerged from the investigation in terms of the use of heterogeneous sources not always of a normative nature, dialectic at the level of intervention between State and Regions, characteristics and alas deficiencies, at least in some respects, of the plant and national strategies of the management of the waste, is obviously not something new, but something that, as in the case of the risk of possible illicit phenomena related to the cycle of the waste, the emergency has made and makes more evident. Once again, I would like to refer to some aspects of the perspective, and I would like to refer to some of the policy points highlighted in the report. First of all, the opportunity to consider the economic impact of the emergency on the tariffs and revenues of companies and public bodies, with particular regard to the suspension of the collection of Tari. Secondly, the need to pay attention to maintaining respect for national and European principles on the circular economy and the objectives in this field, carefully assessing the expected scenarios, also in relation to changed habits of consumption and organisation of work and production. A need to tackle the end of waste in a systematic, rapid way, with a view to the future. It is also important to pay particular attention to the collection and treatment of hospital waste, currently based on incineration and sterilization, which can evolve if the scientific and technical assessments on the effective closure of the cycle will be accompanied by appropriate regulatory actions that accompany solutions with less overall environmental impact. No less important is the need to promote the scientifically well-founded and assisted examination of the activity of public subjects with technical and scientific expertise (Higher Institute of Health, ISPRA, SNPA, in the first place) of the themes of the presence of viruses or generic material of viruses in waste water and of the relationship between epidemiological emergency and air pollution. These are two aspects which have only been dealt with in a limited way in the report, but which certainly have significant features of interest both to the Commission and, more generally, to those concerned with the environment and health. We cannot forget, as has already been pointed out several times, that the choices of waste treatment and closure of the waste cycle, in relation to the specificity of the emergency and the expected future, will have to consider the criticalities of segments of the national plant system and the need to build an economic supply chain in the treatment in this matter. In addition, the adequacy of regulatory production should be measured on the capacity for technically and legally high integration between primary state rules, secondary state rules, regional legislation, taking into account the experience of the epidemiological emergency and the expected future scenarios, also on the basis of monitoring, entrusted to institutional bodies, the evolution of situations and their widespread perception. In this sense, the state derogation rules and regional derogation orders will have to be exceeded. Again, the epidemiological emergency has amplified the widespread demand for simplification also in the area of environmental regulation. The acceptance of such a request, which should concern administrative procedures, will have to be weighted and compensated by appropriate control planning, which will have to be coordinated between environmental control and health control agencies, judicial, ordinary and specialised police, so as not to burden businesses and citizens with controls, but to rationalise public intervention. Last but not least, it should be stressed that the reaction to illegal acts and possible illicit phenomena must be based on the wider exchange of information and coordination tools between the judicial authorities, as well as between the judicial and police authorities and control bodies. Finally, it is important to draw attention to the need for information and awareness among citizens on the various aspects of so-called covid waste and waste in general, with the aim of bringing back to rationality the use of individual garrisons and disposable materials as well as the collection and subsequent treatment of discarded materials. In this way, we can build a sustainability strategy from the bottom up that will allow us to look more hopefully to the future in environmental and economic terms: two elements that either are declined together or simply are not.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u154	I note that any motions for resolutions to this document may be tabled before the end of the debate. There are no members to speak in debate. I would like to inform the House that the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, whose text is being distributed, has been received by the Presidency. I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u155	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u156	Thank you, too, for the summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u159	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, as reported by the rapporteur, after months of intensive work, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences concluded - on 8 July 2020 - with the approval of the report on the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 and the waste cycle. In our view, this is an important work, on which we wish to express our appreciation for the method used and for the way in which the work has been carried out. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, colleagues, offices and consultants of the bicameral Commission, who assisted the work. Of course, the hope for the Government and for all bodies is that they will make good use of this study and this analysis activity which, in our opinion, has clarified many aspects of this particularly complicated and obviously unprecedented period for the Commission's investigation activity. After a wide series of hearings which saw the participation of the Ministry of the Environment, ISPRA, the Higher Institute of Health, the Ministry of Health and representatives of the associative world of the companies in the sector, in addition to the general prosecutor at the Court of Cassation, a complete picture was drawn of the impact that the emergency Covid had in the field of the management of the waste cycle, bringing out a clear need for the protection of public health and the environment, as well as the need for safety for the workers in the sector and the need for the implementation of the plant, as well as a need for high attention to possible criminal phenomena that move in the margins of a legal economy naturally strongly in crisis for events related to the epidemiological emergency. It is a work which we consider satisfactory and which is an important contribution that Parliament makes to government action because it analyses in all its aspects the impact that the emergency has had on the waste cycle. The report, in our view, is in-depth on a number of sensitive issues ranging from the reconstruction of the regulatory framework in which action has been taken to deal with waste and the effects that have been generated on the production and disposal of waste, not to mention the issues relating to the use of individual protective devices and health waste. Much attention has also been focused on the environmental impact of forms of widespread sanitisation, on waste water treatment and the possible relationship between air pollution and contagion. No less attention has been paid to the care of culture and legality, to keep a watchful eye on a crime that has always sought to creep into the waste cycle, especially in times of emergency that may affect it. Of course, we expect the government to make good use of this valuable work, following the analysis of therapy. Brothers of Italy has signed and will therefore vote in favour of the joint resolution which has been tabled. In particular, we want to stress two commitments that are submitted to the Government: the first concerns the end of the refusal. We have been urging the Ministry for a long time to find its fulfillment. We believe that this is absolutely essential. As agreed with my colleague, Mr Zaffini, who should have held his speech in general debate, we also consider it very important to address the critical aspects of the national waste treatment system and the closure of the waste cycle, in relation to the specific nature of the emergency and the future expected and the need to build an economic chain of the treatment of the matter, as well as the closure of the resolution concerning the control system. We believe that there is a real and concrete need for coordination between the different agencies and the different bodies, so that there is no control over controls, which only end up vexing serious entrepreneurs in this sector. Experience shows that it is not always more transparent to carry out controls. I therefore declare the support of the Brothers of Italy Group for the motion for a resolution tabled, reaffirming to the Government the need for a precise and strong commitment to govern the waste cycle, because, in recent years, we have seen very few results and advances. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u162	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, the report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities of the waste cycle and related environmental offences, relating to the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 and the waste cycle, in some way represents a magnifying glass, which allows to verify a number of aspects related to the waste cycle, its problems and also its connections, which unfortunately exist, with the misuse made of this matter and these products. We believe that the Commission's report is comprehensive and that it also highlights some critical issues, which are not limited to the management of pandemic-related waste but concern problems, which should be addressed in a general sense in waste management. By remaining to the specific report on the epidemiological emergency and the waste cycle, we believe that the work of the Commission, which has been able to benefit from numerous hearings, from the agencies, associations, companies involved in these activities, even to the General Prosecutor of the Court of Cassation, allows to highlight some aspects, on which the Government will have to intervene. The resolution before us calls for action to be taken in this direction. There is an issue linked to an adequate level of waste management, in the overall sense, but above all there is an issue related to the relationship and dialectic between the State and the Regions: if we do not go to work properly and efficiently in this relationship, we risk not being able to have a positive and significant impact on the level of management of municipal solid waste and special waste themselves. There is an issue related to plant engineering, with some shortcomings that have been highlighted in the Commission's survey, together with the reflection and economic impact on tariffs. Then there is a specific theme, which we believe to be among the most important and important, which is the search for solutions with less environmental impact. Today, health waste is all incinerated, with the consequences that we know well. We know that research and studies are under way, in order to be able to manage in a more sustainable way from the environmental point of view also the sanitary waste and, in a specific way, those deriving from the emergency Covid-19. The request to the Government is to take into account research and investment in technology, to promote procedures and the creation of plants that, as I said, are more environmentally sustainable. On this subject, let me say that, even in a recent debate in this House on the subject of cesium, we have not always had the ability to put ourselves back on the role of science in a correct way. In this report and in the work done by this Commission, it is clear that it is important to promote the scientificly well-founded and assisted examination in order to be able to take decisions; on the other hand, this House has divided itself into very different positions, despite the fact that even then science could provide us with very precise elements. Therefore, the hope is not only that the government will proceed in the direction indicated by the Commission, but that this House too will increasingly be able to take responsibility for its own responsibilities and actions by referring to the truth that science can provide us with. In this case, we will wait for the ongoing research and the investments that are being made to provide the Government with all the useful elements to be able to go in the direction of a different treatment of health waste. Finally, there is a subject related to controls, with respect to which heaviness emerges once again. The motion for a resolution expressly refers to controls on controls, making these procedures all the more important. Once again, therefore, there is a clear need for our country to simplify, which does not mean turning to another side and not looking at what happens, waiting for the necessary controls, even in this sensitive area, can be done by simplifying procedures and not by building red tape that then justify only the fact that someone has to operate and turn cards. The controls are necessary, but, as the experiences of other countries also teach, they can be carried out and carried out in a more simplified way and with a weight of the bureaucracy certainly contained. We believe that the report under discussion is complete in several respects, so also the Italia Viva-P.S.I Group. It will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which approves it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u165	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the environmental offences related to them in a timely manner on 23 April 2020 put in place one of its main functions, that of studying and analysing the phenomena that are being determined, including to submit problems to legislators, to Parliament or even to the Government, with suggestions for solutions. This is one of its most important prerogatives and it immediately implemented it with the hearing of all the institutional representatives and so-called stakeholders in the waste cycle that has been invested by the novelty of the Covid, therefore by the production of new materials and induced materials. We therefore audit the representatives of the Higher Institute of Health (ISS) and the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, and the Minister for Health, to provide a clearer picture of the situation as possible. Clearly the Covid-19 was for all levels a new and unexpected fact, difficult to manage with cognition, because we did not know what it was, so we can say that we had to face at least three phases: in the first it was necessary to reduce the impact of the virus, to save lives immediately at any cost; the second was characterized by a more conscious management of the matter; the third is the one that we will face, the phase of the future. In the first phase there were also many errors of evaluation and management, such as that of giving the delegation to the regions regarding the management of waste with regional ordinances: this has created overlaps, confusions and lack of homogeneity, which we consider one of the points to be remedied. It was believed that more waste would be produced and in fact an article of the Italian decree cure provided for the increase of the power of the plant, which then fortunately was cancelled in the decree I throw back to the House, because no more waste were produced, also because in the overall budget the lockdown created a decrease of their production. On the contrary, the old problems of waste management have been highlighted, and therefore an ancient dependence on the foreign market - where it has closed, it has done so because the lockdown has covered for a time also the goods - as well as a deficiency of the facilities of recovery of the matter and the persistent poor collection, which concerns the managers, but also the use and the ability of the citizens to have or not a correct management of the waste. However, we are now at the stage when we need to reduce the impact of waste production and the resulting environmental burden. We had no major problems with the management and there was no interruption or malfunction of the collection, also thanks to the ecological operators, who, after a first moment when they had to reorganize their activities, were up to their tasks. However, we are dealing with new products, i.e. masks and gloves, and new behaviors, such as leaving them in the environment. We know that these devices are mostly incinerated, both those of the health type and of normal use available to the citizen, which have a function not properly health, but only of protection from others and themselves from the fumes coming from the spoken, sneeze and so on. Mr Costa had called for the possibility of considering all these waste as hazardous urban waste, with separate management, as is the case for batteries and waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), which are also municipal waste, and therefore of creating a collection chain - at pharmacies - and recovery, also because the Higher Institute of Health has clearly shown that their sanitisation is not difficult to implement. This has not been possible for a number of reasons which are also covered by the simple regulatory provision. This is therefore a wish that we take, at the suggestion of the Minister, to improve and give the possibility in the future to produce sanifiable and recyclable devices, also because the different collection is based on a concept rather difficult to share, that is, if the mask is used by a definitely infected subject it is a device to collect separately; at the time when it is used by so-called normal citizens and who do not know they are carriers or not of the virus, it is simply thrown into the undifferentiated collection. So there's definitely a counter-sense knot here that needs to be solved. In addition to personal protective equipment, there is a series of production of induced materials, such as disposable materials, which has been demonstrated and reaffirmed both by the Higher Institute of Health and by the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea not to serve and be a false problem. Yet we find ourselves - also in the Senate restaurant - having water in bottles not more of glass, but of plastic. This is clearly an increase that we must try to overcome, because it has been shown that food is not a transmitter of the virus and therefore all disposable, also used in the packaging of food, is absolutely useless. In the same way, disinfectants can be the aggravating agents of the pollution of waste water where they are not so necessary, as is normally believed by the population; a frequent washing is sufficient. We are in a situation where we could say that the cat bites its tail, because we are facing a health emergency caused by a virus that is favored - as has been established - by pollution and climate change and, with the production of disposable and plastic even where not necessary, we are promoting this habitat. The nature of the link between smog and epidemic belongs to what is called positive correlation, as there is no cause-effect correlation. It has been established that, where there is a higher concentration of PM2.5 and PM10, there is also a predisposition, probably because individuals already have a lung infection that worsens their receptiveness to the virus. We must therefore find solutions both for the production of the devices in question and for their disposal, because otherwise we are facing an ecological bomb. At the Politecnico di Torino it has been estimated that only for medical devices there is a need for a billion masks per month. Plastics contribute dramatically to climate change and disperse greenhouse gases into the environment. A study by CIEL, a law firm of American public interest, has shown that there is a very strong impact of plastics on climate change because, once dispersed in the environment, it continues to disperse CO2 and greenhouse gases. We must therefore get out of this logic. For these reasons, we shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution which commits the Government, as far as its competence is concerned, to undertake any useful initiative in order to resolve the issues highlighted in the report of the Parliamentary Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u168	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, it has already been pointed out adequately that the Commission's work has been important both from the point of view of content and method. In two months of very tight activity we have had the opportunity to meet many worlds: experts, institutions, representatives of associations and categories of all sectors that have been touched directly by the pandemic and which have to do directly with the waste cycle, which - in some ways and cases - regulate and override the system itself. In particular, the close and organic relationship we have maintained with the Higher Institute of Health, rather than with ISPRA, has been very useful. It was, therefore, a great deal of joint work, which gave us the satisfaction of voting unanimously on its closure report in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences and which allows us today to present the resolution with the signatures of all the parliamentary groups present in this House. It has already been pointed out that during the pandemic there has certainly been an increase of about 200,000 tons of waste related to personal protective equipment, in particular masks and gloves. Faced with this, the system has ruled; the national system has ruled not for sure that there is an organic plan and widespread distribution in order to adequately address the management and closure of the waste cycle in our country (in fact, far from it), but simply because the increase of 200,000 tons of personal protective devices has been exactly equal to the decrease of organic and non-organic waste (i.e. municipal waste) in our country. It is probably waste not produced in homes by families, but certainly linked to all the activities that have closed, for example in the catering sector, within the cities. Mr President, I have only a few very important points in this context from the point of view of cooperation and political collegiality, with reference to this resolution, which sees the signature not only of the Democratic Party and of myself, but of everyone. Some recommendations to the Government: a significant and even greater impact on the circular economy; we are doing so. A few weeks ago in the Environment Commission, we finished a three-month work on transposing the four European directives voted by the European Parliament in 2018, related to the circular economy, and therefore used vehicles, waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), landfills and packaging. In 2019 the law of European delegation established the framework of the general rule and, within this, the draft legislative decree prepared by the Ministry of the Environment was drawn up by the competent Commission, also in that case with satisfaction. Three of these four measures, which modify in a structural way the system of waste management, used vehicles, landfills and a substantial part of the single text on the environment, were voted basically without votes against, not even the opposition. This is to say that the Senate has worked in this direction and therefore has been found ready also to what emerged in the emergency from Covid-19. Some of my fellow senators have dealt with the end of waste in their explanation of vote; I want to tell them that we have not been firm on this either. It is a few months ago - it was last November, if I am not mistaken - the vote, within the bill of conversion of an important decree-law issued by the Government, of the first organic legislative provision of our country that introduces the forecasts of European directives within the national system. It is an intervention at three hundred and sixty degrees, an absolutely homogeneous arrangement, which covers almost all requests. Certainly there is a rather uneven and unanimous view of the question of controls; in that case there were diversified positions. However, the process leading up to the controls has also found unanimity here. It is therefore important to stress when we have the ability to work positively. This resolution considers technology and organisation as positive factors for waste cycle management, in emergencies and outside the emergency. Then there was a very interesting investigation into the presence of virus or virus genetic material in waste water. It is an indicator of great scientific evidence and great consequences, which of course do not escape any of us, from the point of view of the repercussions for public health. There has also been an equally important deepening of the relationship between the crisis, the pandemic and air pollution. Now, in order to avoid unnecessary polemics and doubts, let us say immediately two things: the report states that the relationship between high air pollution, environmental pressure on populations and greater susceptibility to a bacterial or viral infection, in particular resulting from chronic diseases linked to high particulate concentration, is sufficiently proven. It is, therefore, scientifically proven a correlation between pollution and the spread of viruses and, therefore, of the Covid-19. On the other hand, the mechanism through which this pandemic can be spread must be deepened. The overlap between the maximum development of the pandemic and the highly polluted areas worldwide is proven, but after that it is to be determined whether, in particular, particulate matter - excuse the word game - is a carrier, that is, a vector, or not of the virus as such. For a month and a half, ISPRA has started an important study across the country involving many regional ARPAs in order to deepen the issue. Together with these, there is no doubt about the relationship between the pandemic and the environment, from a phenomenological point of view, that there is a direct relationship between deforestation, urban sprawl, human-animal contact and, therefore, the spread of viruses, because it is known that the virus has been brought from non-domestic animals to humans. This closeness, which did not exist before, is clearly due to the elements I was talking about earlier. As a result, there is no doubt, apart from the insights I have just mentioned, that a lot of attention must be paid. We must also assume the responsibility of saying forcefully, together with taking the ensuing joint actions, that there is a direct relationship between climate change, human action and the spread of bacteria and viruses worldwide. Mr President, there are other issues, if you will, which are more secondary, but still important. For example, it is obvious, given all the scientific analyses and what the scientists we have heard say, that there is a direct relationship between cleaning, hygiene and hand washing. Almost all have been pointed out that the use of gloves must be reserved for operators in the sectors and there is also an important emphasis on the fact that it is useless to use disposable plastic tableware. Healthy sanitation and washing are entirely sufficient. Another important point was the identification and centering of the reasoning on hospital waste currently based on incineration and sterilization. Finally, Mr President, there is the question of the plant system. This epidemic has also highlighted that there is a strong criticality and there is a need to work in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory because waste treatment needs a healthy industrial policy of waste cycle plants to close the same cycle. Mr President, for all these reasons I am voting in favour of the resolution by the Democratic Party. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u171	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, since the first day of the start of the state of emergency following the pandemic - a period that I personally lived in Bergamo in my city, in the heart of the mix - the first concern or, indeed, the real fear that welcomed me was the one that could stop the system of waste collection, disposal and disposal. That is why I have systematically checked the conditions of the companies in charge and of the staff and the operators, real heroes a little forgotten, without whom, however, it could have been a tragedy in the tragedy. Not even for a day have they stopped, despite the lack of sometimes garrisons, masks and protections; every day, overlooking my balcony, that balcony from which I saw the trucks pass with the coffins of my fellow citizens, including many friends, while the Covid had crept even into my house, every day I shouted "thank you" and I sent a kiss to those men and women who, in the silence of the deserted streets, passed to collect the sacks and their dangerous content without fear and with a very high sense of duty. Excuse me, but I wanted to open the explanation of vote of Forza Italia to renew all our gratitude for those who, invisible but indispensable, allowed the cities and countries not to be filled with waste, unleashing pandemics in the pandemic at the most terrible time. Thank you, thank you, and thank you again. [[Applause]] One of the side-effects of the health emergency Covid, perhaps the most dangerous one, is the impact that the pandemic would have on waste both in relation to the containment and contrasting actions of the pandemic itself, and in relation to the implications that the massive increase in the use of personal protective devices, masks and gloves could have involved. The management of waste had a great deal of difficulty, but no one noticed it because of the organisation and the firmness with which it remained on the piece: household waste management, hospital waste management, waste management produced at the workplace. For the most affected territories such as Lombardy, Veneto, Piedmont and Emilia-Romagna it was truly an incredible and surreal period. Allow me to dedicate a thought to the negationists who - good for them - were probably not affected as the Northern regions were affected. Lucky them and we're really happy about that. [[Applause]] Returning to the management of the waste cycle, all the actors involved and in particular the Regions, the Provinces and the Municipalities immediately reacted by putting in place any action necessary to contain the pandemic, ensuring the best possible service to the citizens. What the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences has produced today is a report accompanied by a resolution signed by all the political groups - and I stress all - and representatives of the country in Parliament. It is a set of concrete, shared, useful and necessary proposals that derive from the Commission's timely intervention, in order to deepen what has happened during the most acute months of emergency in order to offer Parliament, public decision-makers at all levels of government, the productive world and citizens all a picture of what has happened and some useful elements on which to reason and possibly intervene concretely in future in the management of so-called covid waste and beyond. In fact, if during the emergency period we have worked in emergency, today, mindful of what happened, the whole system of waste management must be revised, transforming for this sector too a tragic emergency into an opportunity, to improve activities in a sector often not considered as one should, lifting ideological stakes and overcoming anti-historic and fundamentalist concepts without meaning. [[Applause]] The Commission has worked as every Department of Government should work and in the first place the President of the Council, in an atmosphere of maximum openness to listening to understand and receive the testimonies and indications received from the interlocutors identified between public and private subjects, with specific competences, starting from the Ministry of the Environment, passing to ISPRA, Higher Institute of Health, Ministry of Health, representatives of the associative world of the companies in the field and the general prosecutor at the Court of Cassation. This is Parliament's serious and competent work, not that of the unnecessary task forces. [[Applause]] We hope that a united resolution, which will be voted unanimously, will not end up with other reports. What has been highlighted is what we systematically support. From the point of view of the method, greater coordination between the State and the regions will be necessary in the future, making less and less use of the opening up of derogations from heterogeneous sources not always of a regulatory nature and, as far as the effect is concerned, the emergency has led to the reduction of the production of waste in general; a decrease that has not, however, alleviated the structural deficits of the national plant system. On the contrary, these, on the contrary, have seen the effects of the lack of possible destinations for specific types of waste currently not managed on the national territory due to the absence of a specific plant equipment, that is an economic chain of treatment of the properly constructed matter: in short, the shortage of plants and the uneven presence of their presence on the various territories, that still today make sure that there are two Italies. And that too is inconceivable. [[Applause]] All the more so, I stress that, despite the shortage of plants and the uneven presence of them on the various territories, the emergency did not cause significant interruptions or alterations in waste management and, thank God and thanks to the organization of the companies and workers in the sector, despite the difficulties caused by the need to supply personal protective equipment, despite the confusion produced by Commissioner Arcuri, everything went well and the appropriate levels of service were maintained. It is worth highlighting, however, the widespread abandonment of masks and gloves that must be pursued in every possible way. The fact remains that the emergency has been a magnifying glass on how much works and how much does not work, regardless of the emergency itself, especially the relationship between the State-Regions and the serious plant failure, not to mention the integrated water system (water), which needs scientific examinations founded by the Higher Institute of Health, by ISPRA in the first place, which, thanks to their technical skills, will have to analyse the presence of viruses or generic material of viruses in waste water; as well as scientifically establish the relationship between epidemic and atmospheric pollution, which could be one of the explanations of the greater incidence of the virus in the Po Valley. Nothing new under the sun, therefore, but they are issues that must be addressed now, immediately, if we want to be really effective compared to the weakening of the risk of possible illicit phenomena related to the waste cycle that, if anything, the emergency has made even more evident. We want to simplify, once and for all - and we will ask you again within the next simplification decree - every action aimed at truly realising the green deal that Europe asks of us, but that we deeply want for the good and well-being of citizens and the environment. A responsible and modern country must be able to have an adequate and developed waste management system at the industrial level and therefore the necessary plant engineering to meet the needs arising from the planning of the sector. A modern system is indispensable for proper environmental management, for a correct competitiveness of the Italy system and for the attraction of investments. Italy has accumulated delay on delay, which still today has as a result latent and widespread crisis situations. I ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech in its entirety to those parts which are more technical. In conclusion, I would like to draw close attention to the end of waste system and simplification. We will still produce amendments that we hope will be taken into account and adopted, because that is the only way we will get out of them. In announcing Forza Italia's vote in favour of the report and the resolution, I still ask you to give a strong round of applause for all the operators in the waste sector, without whose sense of duty we will find ourselves in a much more difficult situation today. Thank you so much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u172	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u175	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, all my colleagues have anticipated that there will be a unanimous vote on the motion for a resolution, not because everything is going well, but because the problems we have encountered are so obvious that they have imposed on everyone to identify and suggest to the government interventions that can prevent our country from finding itself again - God forbid - in the face of such an inadequate and inappropriate emergency even in the field of waste management. The fact that things didn't get any worse and that the system kept it doesn't mean that it couldn't have done better. The Presidents of the Chamber and Senate had asked each Commission, in the hottest phase of the emergency, to continue to work and to question, as far as its competence is concerned, the possible consequences and to study the possible actions that could have taken in Parliament to meet the needs of the country. Well, as a bicameral committee on eco-reactors, we have not escaped. The picture that appeared to us from the speeches was clear and evident, purified - allow me the term - by ideologies and anachronistic and anti-historical approaches. It is clear and lapalissian - it has been said for health and pollution - that the starting picture conditions everything else. And what is the starting point that needs to be repeated once again? You'll feel this until you're exhausted. It is a framework that denotes legislation that is not yet fully in step with the times and a poor and present plant system in a uneven way. In this context, even the communication that has been made has not helped, and this has emerged from the shorthand accounts of the hearings also of the private part, as well as of the public part. You think that, despite the endless press conferences, the endless statements and infinite examples of the President-in-Office of the Council, the operators have never once been remembered; never once has the example of waste cycle management been made as an essential service to prevent a possible blockade from leading to an emergency. For weeks, in some cases for months, despite several times the President of the Council reminded us that the state of emergency was approved on 31 January, still in March the trade associations asked for clarification and answers. What came after weeks or even months? Guidelines have arrived. Faced with specific questions addressed to both the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Environment, we were told that we have not actually taken initiatives from a primary source, but lately guidelines have been approved, obviously in relation to ISPRA and the Higher Institute of Health. What did that determine? It is clear from the report that the individual municipalities and the individual regions, necessarily and necessarily to respond to the emergency, have taken decisions and given answers. Here by chance there is the response of the Lombardy Region that specifies the classification of the waste management activity within the emergency - but I could also take the example of the other nineteen Regions or autonomous Provinces - before a response arrived definitively, with the indication, for example, of the Ateco codes of the plants as indispensable activities. We could definitely move before. It is very good to note, also for the present and future emergencies, in point 2 of the motion for a resolution which has been drawn up and in which we fully recognise ourselves, the need to balance the discounts provided for closed activities, as has been done - for example - by ARERA on 5 May. But at the same time it is necessary to ensure that those operating costs, which have been incurred, do not, on the one hand, affect the municipalities and indirectly the citizens and, on the other hand, affect the plant system. The fact that less waste has been produced must not be deceived, since the type of waste has changed. Imagine how they had to treat all the waste of those who were in quarantine or of those who were positive, with completely different rules, and consider the fact that the companies had to bear the fixed costs of managing the fleet, insurance and personnel. So, it is fair to say that those who have been closed must not pay, but it is just as fair that that cost does not dump - as the president of the ANCI Decaro has denounced - on the municipalities or companies. We therefore welcome point 2 of the motion for a resolution, which has not yet been mentioned in previous speeches. We also welcome the call by the Government on the need to give answers on the end of waste, the waste cycle and the plant, but then we have to be consequent. Allow me, Mr Ferrazzi: it is true that out of three of the four European directives that we have transposed - I am referring in particular to the Senate Act 169, which transposed Directives Nos 4 and 8, the Commission has adopted Directives Nos 4 and 5, which have been transposed into national law. 851 and 852 relating to packaging and the production of waste - there has been no vote against. Responsiblely, in fact, we looked at what was good, but we also reported what could have been done and did not. I would like to take one example: we cannot ask for answers, to reduce the production of waste, to increase recycling and then to impose - I ask for a minimum of attention, because it is an important step, and I also address the Government, because it is still in time to correct the draft legislative decree - the minimum standards only for plants that prepare the refusal to recycling. Are we going to say once and for all that every waste facility must have minimum standards in order to avoid those legalized scams that often happen in various parts of Italy and that are also the subject of investigations by the bicameral Commission of inquiry? There are plants inside which the waste turns for fake only to justify that, being process waste, they can go to landfill; which they could not do if they were waste such as. I take the TMB Salario in Rome, for example, and it is public data: there is no such thing as plants that work with a gap of more than 60 percent. It's a shame! [[Applause]] So, if we approve a resolution, we must be consistent: we insert in the first useful provision that each plant has minimum standards and that, if the latter are not respected, the plant must close. It is not enough to complete the plant network, which is not present throughout the national territory, but it is necessary for those plants to function seriously and not on paper. This, too, means reducing the space for crime, for evil, for those who want to speculate on waste. We also welcome the fact that the report recognises the need to ensure sufficient quantity of our processing plants. In fact, it is true - and we note this - that, since we are very supportive of certain types of waste abroad, there has not been an emergency. But this did not happen, because then the borders were reopened. Otherwise, those 200,000 tons, which were randomly produced and negotiable, would not have been enough. Then one good time we give an answer. One thing is certain: the only emergency currently linked to the Covid for this sector - apart from the democratic one that unfortunately remains - is the absence of an emergency management plan. We hope that it can finally be approved so that, at the next time our country finds itself in difficulty, we can respond in such a way that this emergency is not forgotten, but it is the starting point to manage the next one even better, which we hope is not there or is as far away as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u178	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months the management of the waste cycle has been placed in a general framework of problems caused by the epidemiological emergency, the characteristics of which are such as to affect health and economic aspects, but also social customs and the ability to respond in the area of essential services, including waste cycle management, from collection to treatment. It should be considered, in any assessment to be made of the events since January 2020, that the world scientific community itself has been faced with an absolute novelty. Knowledge has only been consolidated over time through the public debate of the scientific community and with ongoing research. The Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle considered that it was necessary to consult with public and private stakeholders quickly and to conclude with this report an in-depth study on the topic of "Covid-Emergency and the Waste Cycle" in order to provide Parliament, state and regional government bodies, the productive world and citizens with a picture of what has happened, as well as future-oriented evaluations and recommendations. The general regulatory environment for emergency management is particularly complex with sources of different levels, state, regional and local authorities. In this broad context, the sources of waste cycle and environment are limited, reducing at the primary level to Articles 113 and 113-bis - moreover, the latter subsequently repealed by an amendment tabled by the Movimento 5 Stars - of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, which moreover introduce derogation rules of general scope, as well as to Article 30-bis of Decree-Law No 26 of 2020, which intervenes indirectly on the health waste regime. It does not in itself concern the waste cycle, but opens up a wider perspective in the field of environmental protection, Article 4 -bis of Decree-Law No 23 of 2020, which included environmental services and reclamation activities in the list of activities most exposed to the risk of criminal infiltration. Scientific and technical indications and solutions for waste collection and treatment have been provided on the basis of an appreciable cooperation between the Higher Institute of Health and the National Environmental Protection System. The interventions on the waste cycle are, instead, largely derived from orders of the individual Regions, of a derogation from current rules, to which must be associated a circular of the Ministry of the environment that has suggested to the Regions themselves the use of ordinances, pursuant to Article 191 of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 (code of the environment). The health emergency did not significantly increase the production of waste in general; indeed, as Senator Ferrazzi said, it decreased due to the reduced consumption of goods during the blocking phase and, if anything, the measures taken have responded to the perception of structural deficits of the national system, which during the emergency phase have exacerbated the effects of the shortage of possible destinations for specific types of waste, currently not managed on the national territory due to the absence of a specific plant equipment or an economic chain of material treatment, properly built. The temporary criticality resulting from the closure of some foreign markets does not signal an emergency, but the fact that in the state there are some exports of rational waste in a global market logic and others, instead, the result of the lack of dedicated plants or consequent collection of poor waste: this makes it necessary, in the future, even in the short and medium term, to create the regulatory and economic conditions for investments in compatible environmental innovation. The health emergency has not led to significant disruptions and alterations in waste management: companies and workers in the sector, despite certain stages of difficulties caused by the need to supply personal protective equipment, have helped to maintain an adequate response to the service. It is to be welcomed that no exception has been declared, while maintaining indications consistent with the existing rules for the classification of waste and bringing back to it the needs of the emerging phase, also in view of what has so far been scientifically known about the limited persistence of the virus on the surfaces. ISPRA has constantly informed and updated local authorities in this respect. The epidemiological emergency has generated - and is destined to generate - effects on the production of waste, with consequences on their management that concern both the general production and that resulting from the use of specific products intended for the containment of the contagion. In this regard, the relevant issues concern the use of materials induced by the need to contain the contagion itself, which can produce an increase in the production of waste and widespread abandonment phenomena: I refer to the use of facial masks and gloves, but also of disposable materials in the trade, catering and packaging of food products. As Senator Nugnes pointed out, often and willingly these "use and throwaway" materials are useless for the purpose of the containment of the contagion. In the context of the epidemiological emergency, the use of facial masks of various types and gloves, even in daily actions not directly linked to work activities, has been widely diffused among the actions aimed at containment. The relevant provisions have been multiple, coming from state, regional or local sources with specific orders that have evolved over time but, I stress, sometimes even contradicted each other. A second relevant issue concerns the scenarios of the production of waste determined in the stages of new normality, after the epidemiological emergency, with particular regard to municipal solid waste and sanitary waste. There are also related issues which the Commission of Inquiry considered to be concerned with: the environmental impact of widespread sanitisation, waste water treatment and the possible relationship between air pollution and contagion. The Commission has acquired from the interlocutors identified during the investigation, in particular - with regard to scientific assumptions - from the Higher Institute of Health, the Ministry of Health and ISPRA, the evidence necessary to provide some recommendations, on the basis of what has so far been known, on the evolution of the contagion, the assessments must distinguish the effects linked to the first phase of the emergency from the medium-term effects resulting from the overcoming of the peaks of contagion and of care needs and linked to the potential emergence of new economic and environmental criticalities. If in a first phase of the emergency the absolute priority was to save lives, reduce the impact of the contagion and avoid the collapse of the health system and social systems that an exponential spread of the contagions would have produced, now arises the theme of starting the scientific research, the technological elaboration and the organizational innovation of the enterprises and the public administration towards solutions that lead to the reduction of the waste and, more in general, to investments on the protection of the environment and the environmental sustainability. A set of processes that will lead to regulatory initiatives of primary, secondary and framework level, characterized by a strategic vision. To sum up, in this perspective, the maintenance of an adequate level of management of urban solid waste in the emergency phase should be associated with compliance with national and European principles on circular economy; the end of waste should be addressed systematically, with a view to the future; the economic impact of the emergency on tariffs should also be considered, with particular regard to the suspension of the collection of Tari. In the most acute phase of the epidemiological emergency, the use of individual protective devices and disposable materials, as mentioned above, have compared the perception of the risk, the anxiety of resolving hypotheses and, on the contrary, the necessary and far-sighted assessment of the overall health and environmental balance of the actions undertaken; on this comparison, the Commission considers, on the basis of the interhuman transmission of the coronavirus, that the function of facial masks, as devices intended to protect other persons, can be acquitted by surgical masks used also in alternating or prolonged form, or by reusable community masks. The careful and frequent hygiene of the hands - it is well to remember - is an essential element of the prevention of contagion, while the use of gloves does not in any way prevent the contagion and is useful only in particular working situations. The scientific and assisted examination of the presence of viruses or genetic material of viruses in waste water and the relationship between epidemiological emergency and air pollution should be promoted with determination, starting from the awareness acquired. The reaction to illegal acts and possible illicit phenomena must be based on the wider exchange of information and coordination tools between judicial authorities, judicial authorities and control bodies. Waste management is certainly one of the most complex problems of our time, in terms of environment and safety. According to the various provisions on this subject, both at world and European level and finally at national level, it is noted that the ecosystem must be protected and therefore human health must be protected, with a view to a cultural development leading to the progressive reduction of waste. With great appreciation for my colleagues in the Commission - and I would like to mention in particular the President, Mr Stefano Vignaroli, and the rapporteurs, Senator Massimo Berutti and Mr Giovanni Vianello - I can say that the Commission has worked intensively during the emergency phase, raising a number of subjects, also in order to acquire as much useful information as possible, in order to produce a report that could be comprehensive, on the basis of the scientific evidence produced so far. For these reasons, I declare, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, the vote in favour of the report before us today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u179	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u180	The Conference of Leaders approved additions to the current timetable and the new schedule of work, until 4 September. Tomorrow's session will begin at 9 a.m. with the commemoration of Senator Zavoli, who has recently disappeared. The discussion of the decree-law on gender equality will follow in the electoral consultations of the Regions with ordinary statutes, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Subsequently, the Minister of Health will inform on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. Around 18 August the Shareholders' Meeting will be convened for communication to the Shareholders' Meeting of the announced decree-law on economic measures. The work of the Commissions will resume from Monday 24 August, subject to the authorization to convene earlier, in relation to the needs. The Assembly will meet again from Tuesday 1 September, at 16.30, with sessions until Friday 4, if necessary, for the discussion of the decree-simplifications law. The timetable for this week also provides for communications from the President of the Council of Ministers on the content of measures to implement containment measures to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus and the ensuing debate. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on 1 September at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u181	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 4 September: [[Thursday 6 August h. 9 - Drawing of law n. 1905 - Decree-Law n. 86, Gender equality in the electoral consultations of regions with ordinary statutes (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) (expires on 29 September) - Information of the Minister of Health on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to avoid the spread of the virus COVID-19]] Around 18 August the Chamber will be convened for the communication to the Assembly of the announced decree-law on economic measures. The work of the Commissions will resume from Monday 24 August, subject to the authorization to convene previously also in relation to eventual needs. [[Tuesday, September 1, h 16,30 - Draft law n. 1883 - Decree-Law n. 76, Simplifications (expands on 14 September 2020) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to avoid the spread of the virus COOVID-19 Wednesday 2 " h. 9,30 Thursday 3 " h. 9,30 Friday 4 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] Amendments to draft law No 1883 (Decree-Law No 76, Simplifications) will have to be tabled by 11 a.m. on Thursday 6 August. Time distribution for discussion of draft law n. 1905 (Decree-Law n. 86, Gender equality in the electoral consultations of regions with special status) (2 hours and 25 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 1 hour and 25 minutes, of which: M5S 15' L-SP-PSd'Az 10' FI-BP 10' PD 10' Mixed 10' IV-PSI 10' FdI 10' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']] The timing breakdown shall take into account specific requests from the Groups. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1883 (Decree-Law No 76, Simplifications) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' FI-BP 1 h. 3' PD 49' Mixed 43' IV-PSI 38' FdI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers on the content of measures to implement containment measures to prevent the spread of the VOCID-19 virus (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 38' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FI-BP 27' PD 21' Mixed 19' IV-PSI 16' FdI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u183	I urge the group leaders to check that the speeches at the end of the session are not exclusive to the usual senators, because there is a certain anniversary of certain senators and senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u185	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, I am actually very fond of you. Colleagues, in these hours dozens of Italian intellectuals are signing an appeal for the Archaeological Museum of Syracuse, started by the universities of the island and addressed to the owner of the Department of Cultural Heritage and Sicilian Identity, Samonà. It is one of the oldest and most prestigious museums in Europe, born with the royal decree of 17 June 1878, opened in 1886 and later entitled to Paolo Orsi, so that the famous archaeologist directed it from 1895 to 1934. Since 1977 it has become regional. Think that the historical archive and library of this museum would have the dignity of autonomous institutions, so much the importance of international activities and collaborations entertained with universities and scholars of great prestige, in one hundred and thirty years of life. The regional archaeological museum Paolo Orsi has made and is part of the history of world archaeology, a point of reference for its authority as well as for the quality of the offer, but also a place of growth for generations of children of our schools and extraordinary field of test for many university students. Nevertheless, without recognizing its special dignity and the primacy that it would have for being the most visited museum on the island, today it is part of the institutes of the Archaeological Park of Syracuse, to which the city council member Samonà has recently changed its name. Treated in the context as one of the many, the museum Paolo Orsi is also part of that third of Italian museums that after the lockdown has not reopened. You may remember that an official of the museum died for Covid-19, but rumors of corridor indicate that the prolonged closure must be attributed to the fact that the building, located in the Villa Landolina park, opened in 1988 but built in the previous twenty years, would suffer from important structural problems not addressed and lack of maintenance. The shortsightedness of a regional administration for some time unable to understand that investing money and intellectual resources in the museum Paolo Orsi means ensuring the island's entire progress and wealth risks making the opportunities for cultural but also economic growth offered by the Museum of Syracuse, moreover always at the forefront also in the use of new technologies in the field of guided tours in presence and remote. In inviting all Italian colleagues and citizens to sign the appeal, I too address the Councillor Samonà to urge him not to tie his name to the ruin of the regional archaeological museum Paolo Orsi, boast of Sicily, but also prestigious piece of history of research and promotion of national cultural heritage, demonstrating alas the validity of the doubts of Concetto Marchesi about the autonomy applied to the cultural heritage sector [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u188	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay tribute to a story which has just begun but which I am convinced will continue, given the tenacity and perseverance of the protagonists, in whom human solidarity and generosity are at their best by trying to give a simple answer, but which comes from the depths of the heart, to children in difficulty in trying, successful, to give them a smile and a joy, given their complex problems linked to the autistic spectrum. This complex pathology, which these small patients share in its drama with their families, is difficult to approach. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u189	Colleagues, all those who are in front of the entrance or enter or leave, and allow colleagues to carry out their speeches at the end of the session. Despite all this, with little respect for this House and especially for you, I am sorry but they continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u190	MAUTON (M5S). Thank you, President. This complex pathology that, in its dramatic nature, these small patients share with their families is of difficult therapeutic approach and complicated resolution. The earlyness and effectiveness of the therapeutic intervention in a long and difficult rehabilitation path receives from these moments of intense participation and temporary exit from the daily rhythm an abrupt acceleration and an extremely positive thrust. The commendable gesture of Giuseppe, firefighter of Bari, who offers a free boat tour to autistic boys represents a noble initiative, which shows on the one hand the great heart and generosity of those who promoted it with simplicity and availability, but on the other also the need and strong request for help, a tense hand and a sharing by the children and their families so severely in difficulty, further accentuated by the pandemic that we have lived. With generosity, Giuseppe made available his dinghy to give moments of joy to these children and autistic boys, with the hope not hidden that they can represent for them a small help able to break the wall of silence and isolation that surrounds them, closed as they are in their world, but with the strong desire to open up to everyday life. How many megayacht or megapanfili owners, closed in their golden jet-set world, between megaloman parties and high-end nights, should take an example from this simple gesture and open up to truly supportive and socially distinctive initiatives! We must recover the profound values of human and social solidarity: let us do so... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u191	Colleagues, soon I will begin to make formal references, with names and surnames.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u192	MAUTON (M5S). It is a matter of respect for those children, colleagues, because we are talking about autism. Let us ensure that Joseph's initiative does not remain a drop of water in the desert, but opens to new moments and measures capable of leading to a... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ..and to put in a new light the problem of autism, but also the thousand difficulties that families with autistic children and the many implications, not only clinical and rehabilitation, but also economic and social, that this pathology entails. In conclusion, Mr President, we always stress the importance of precise and comprehensive information, in order to increase the sensitivity and sharing of this issue by citizens: autism is not contagious, ignorance is. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u195	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take advantage of this space because I would like to deal with a subject that may appear marginal, but it is not and concerns the issue of the so-called honorary judiciary. A European-level ruling has recently come out which has given the honorary magistrates dignity in substance (and many other things as well). In the Commission, we tried to achieve a text that was shared by virtually all political forces, but it was not possible for different visions. Now, it is good for this House to know that, by virtue of this judgment, in a very delicate matter, such as justice, we risk - or rather, the Italian State risks - a lot of litigation, especially because the dignity of the work, the function and the office of this judiciary is not recognized. Nobody, of course, thinks that the honorary magistrates can be equated with the toned judges, there is no such desire, but there is a need for the problem to be dealt with as soon as possible, because they are coming either as a re-launched decree or as a series of funds. The problem of the speed of justice is very important for the development of our country and indeed the dragging of this issue is a kind of cloud that is above the whole system, both for the appeals that, as I told you, can be presented individually, and because in perspective we fear we can also open an infringement procedure. I therefore believe that it is Parliament's job - and, in particular, the majority forces - not to forget this issue, to put it within the measures that we will analyse and examine from September onwards and, above all, to do so with a fundamental element, which is the political will.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u198	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise at the end of this sitting on the ban that the supermanager Extraordinary Commissioner Arcuri has made on the allocation of benches. The deadline was extended from 30 July to 5 August, so it expires today. I have great concerns, because it seems that the Extraordinary Commissioner has not listened to those who produce them. In the call there are 3 million traditional benches, therefore those with steel frames, the top in birch plywood covered with laminate, 65x65 cm, with variable height. In addition, the ban includes 750,000 benches - or, better, seats with single-seater wheels - which are usually designed for college students. These particular wheelchair seats are produced not in Italy, but abroad: there are those from China, which are evidently much cheaper, and those from the United States. Our companies at most assemble the pieces and, note well, these pieces could never receive environmental certification. So, there's already this contrast that leads you to wonder if you've been informed and deepened. Above all, the required quantity of traditional counters represents the normal production of five years, so it is claimed that in the very nearest times of Italian companies make this production, at a time when, moreover, there is a shortage of steel, with the consequence that our Italian companies will not participate in the ban: it seems to me to be masochists. Probably someone will participate: it will be a commercial enterprise, which will try to graffazzone, to the right and to the lack, of the productions whose quality would be all to verify. The school year will begin without knowing how many hundreds of thousands of teachers and with schools still not safe. As always, this government has arrived late; the supercommissary, in arms with the Minister, has arrived late. In September our schools must leave, because the school with teaching in presence (and not at distance) is a primary function. We will find ourselves with a huge mess, with productions that will probably not be adequate. Not only that. I have a small question, that to Lombards, always with their feet on the ground, comes to mind: but have they reckoned that to deliver, with the maximum delay 8 September, all those productions needs a logistics that includes 6,000 trucks? And how will it be in mountain towns, islands or a city like Venice? [[Applause]] But am I standing on the ground? I don't think so. I don't want to be Cassandra, but I'm afraid it's going to be a big failure. Finally, Senator Pittoni has repeatedly represented the need to stabilize the precarious and has remained unheard. The stabilization of 100,000 precarious people would reassure the world of school and families for an orderly resumption of work. This has not been accepted and, therefore, the teachers will also be missing and the dance of the alternates will start again. I mean, a complete failure. I hope I'm wrong, but - alas - I'm afraid I'm right. The time for this Government and the supercommissary Arcuri is a variable of little importance, while it is of vital importance for us, for families, for municipalities and the country. [[Applause]] Maybe I would recommend taking a small repeat from certain officials of the Municipalities who have already provided timely for these purchases and the arrangement of everything. Maybe you should start from the bottom to learn something. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u199	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-248.ana.u200	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, August 6, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.09 a.m.
