ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u4	I inform you that the President of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated, pursuant to Article 19 of Legislative Decree no. 533, that, on the basis of the verification carried out by Senator Durnwalder, rapporteur for the Veneto Region, following the death of Senator Bertacco, the seat in the Uninomial College No. 9 of the Veneto Region has become vacant, in which the same senator has been elected with the majority system.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1812. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u6	Mr President, Decree-Law No 33 of 16 May 2020 contains additional measures compared to those already provided for by previous measures aimed at dealing with the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19. Article 1 provides a new framework, which overlaps that of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, for measures to limit the spread of the virus, while the way in which future restrictions are adopted remains the one designated by Articles 2 and 3 of the same Decree-Law No 19. As regards movement between regions, the cessation of restrictive measures is postponed until 3 June 2020. Movements to and from abroad shall be prohibited until 2 June, except for proven working needs of absolute urgency, or for health reasons or in further cases identified by measures adopted pursuant to Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020. It is expected that travel between the Vatican City State, the Republic of San Marino and the neighbouring Regions respectively will not be subject to any restrictions. There is also a second order of provisions in Article 1 concerning quarantine measures. The precautionary quarantine (of course different from the compulsory quarantine) shall be applied to persons who have had close contact with confirmed subjects who are positive for the virus or with others, as indicated by the measures taken pursuant to Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19. There are also further provisions concerning the prohibition of assembly. Another order of provisions concerns religious services, the conduct of which, with the participation of persons, is required to comply with the protocols signed by the Government and religious confessions, containing the appropriate measures to prevent the risk of contagion. It is the responsibility of the Regions to monitor, on a daily basis, the evolution of the epidemiological situation, as a result of which they are allowed to introduce derogations - either extensive or restrictive - in the interests of the adoption of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. Article 2 of the measure concerns the introduction of sanctions, intended to apply in cases of non-compliance with containment measures. Specific rules are laid down for compulsory quarantine: unless the fact integrates a criminal offence against public health or, in any case, a more serious offence, the violation is punished in accordance with Article 260 of the Royal Decree of 27 July 1934, No. 1,265. Article 3 contains the transitional and final provisions, which provide that the measures provided for in this Decree-Law shall apply during the period from 18 May to 31 July 2020, subject to the different deadlines laid down in Article 1, which I referred to in the report. It should be noted that the provisions of this Decree-Law have already been implemented in the Decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 17 May 2020. Finally, I take account of the work carried out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where a constructive confrontation has developed between the individual political forces and the groups represented and six amendments have been approved, some of them by the rapporteur: 1,100 and 2,100 have introduced purely formal changes; 1,102 has accepted a condition laid down by the Parliamentary Commission for regional issues on the inclusion of childcare services; then there is a further one by the rapporteur, which regulates the adoption of measures equivalent to precautionary quarantine, in the case of persons who come into contact with positives. A government amendment was then approved to create conditions so that there is never a lack of masks and other personal protective equipment during the emergency. Finally, an amendment by Senator Augussori has been accepted, which has been asked to reformulate (ready for our attention), which provides that the entry into force of the law of conversion (so, approximately, since the end of July) the proceeds of sanctions deriving from violations of the rules on the confrontation of the emergency from Covid-19 flow to the institutional level that carries out the sanction. Senator Pagano's amendment 2.0.1 on a further strengthening of the parliamentaryisation of the process of enacting the rules during the emergency was not acceptable - so we could not approve it. On this point, however, a discussion has developed, which will probably continue through the presentation of a bill by the senator himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u7	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with the conversion of this decree-law, we are witnessing yet another slap in the face of Parliament. Once again, the main institution of our constitutional order, the only one elected directly by the citizens and fulcrum of the parliamentary Republic, is reduced to the mere role of certifier of choices of the Executive. What is even more paradoxical is that this time - today, 24 June - we are called to express an evaluation and a final vote on rules issued on 16 May, which have largely already ceased their effect on 2 June. It is obvious that here in the Senate we are doing so at first reading, so even more grotesque will be the corresponding situation that will have to face the other Branch of Parliament, which will receive the measure after we have fired him. I wonder, what's the point of all this? No one, except to be yet another manifestation of man's power only at the command, surrounded at most by his oligarchic company of tour. Moreover, for everything not directly provided for in this decree-law, we refer, as always, to a new sequel to the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. This is done nine times in the 16 paragraphs of Article 1. [[Applause]] Much has already been said about the extremely forced use of this instrument, but we will never tire of repeating it, even in the face of the very high-level calls that require the government to manage more harmoniously with the constitutional dictation. Of course, even at this stage we must strongly reiterate that the procedure introduced during the conversion of Decree-Law No 19 does not satisfy us: we cannot accept that it is merely an information of a Minister - therefore, without a direct vote of Parliament - to replace the right-duty of Chamber and Senate to have a say in the choices affecting the fundamental rights of citizens. [[Applause]] This is even more true if we consider that the information - which, as you know, is expected - takes place in the phase following the adoption of the measure, at the sole discretion of the Government itself. Turning to the merits, in the few minutes I still have available, we cannot fail to recognize that, of the pylastery decrees that support the legal architrave built by the Conte government, this is the one that certainly has the least negative impact on the citizens, only because it comes when the health emergency is largely overcome. Obviously this does not change our judgment on the overall picture, which is the same harvest - just to give an example - even at the hearing in the Commission of the representatives of Regions led by the center-left, despite the fact that they managed to emerge in extremis a satisfactory agreement regarding the application of the protocols of understanding, having the Government revise the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 16 May, during the night between 16 and 17 that we all remember. That said and pointed out, we have not shunned our role as constructive opposition and, in the work in the Commission, we have tried to improve the text. We had to work as if we were looking at an instant photograph taken on May 15, trying to insert in an amending phase what we thought useful, knowing well that the effects would remain only on paper - in this case, hopefully, not to future memory - given the fact that, as said, many of the effects of the decree-law have already been exhausted on June 2nd. We have proposed improvements with regard to the circulation between border territories between one Region and another; we have proposed to better articulate the use of definitions such as dwelling, dwelling, residence and domicile, which have brought so much confusion (and we still do not understand if for a conscious will or only for a lightness in the extension of the various norms); we have proposed a more correct application of the norm of transit to and from San Marino and Vatican City, which many doubts had raised from the constitutionalists that we have audited. Again, in terms of sanctions, we have proposed that the suspension of activities should not be automatic, but should be applied only in situations of particular gravity, when - think of hotel structures - it could create greater risks to public health and public order or - if we think of local public transport - compliance with the rules depends largely on users with little possibility of determination by operators, who - as we remember - cannot be competent authorities for verification. Finally, we have proposed that the proceeds of the sanctions imposed by local authorities (Comuni, Provinces and Regions) remain in the availability of the same, also and above all in order to allow, responsible and motivating, effective collaboration in the garrison of the territory, in the interest of the whole community. This proposal, as the rapporteur, Mr Parrini, mentioned earlier, was accepted by the Commission: it could not have been otherwise, since it is generally of absolute common sense and in favour of the mayors who are at the forefront. So there was an improvement, but it was completely insufficient. We didn't expect the Giallorossi majority to overturn the government's ruling, but this is certainly not enough to change our judgment on the management of the emergency by President Conte and his endless task forces, which is and remains negative. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u9	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as Mr Augussori recalled, we are here to convert yet another decree-law, already old and replaced by another measure. This, however, is your practice and it goes on like this, in a babel of urgent decrees and conversions into law totally disrespectful of the Italians. We, too, sometimes find it difficult to orient ourselves. I have the feeling that you, the government gentlemen, don't know exactly how many measures you have taken, do you? Yeah. For information only for those who listen from home, from the beginning of the emergency fourteen decrees-laws were issued, as many decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and four decrees of the Council of Ministers. It would be interesting to know how many measures have been taken in France, Germany, Spain or the rest of Europe. [[Applause]] , without forgetting, of course, the almost daily press conferences of our beautiful President, who, however, generated only immense confusion. What do the Italians think of a Parliament that cannot intervene, because it uses the decrees of the President of the Council, and of a Government that puts trust in every decree-law? [[Applause.]] Today, perhaps, this is the first time that this does not happen: does it seem to you that it is the way to exercise democracy and collect the demands that come from the Italians, also through the amendments of the minority political forces that systematically rejected? You love to tell yourself that you are the first in the class, so much so that your committees, your experts and the general states to date do not have a plan for relaunching. You have no idea what to do. [[Applause]] : it is right to tell the Italians, admit it with honesty, honesty and still honesty. After eight days in general, the President-in-Office of the Council has proposed - perhaps - to evaluate the reduction of VAT, as in Germany; on the contrary, it will not be reduced by just one point; wait, it depends on the MEF; yes, but in any case only for a fixed time. Are you serious? You really say that? President Conte, beautiful lawyer of the people, there is no more time: no more catwalks and press conferences. The League has made concrete proposals, one on all the flat tax, already illustrated here by our leader Matteo Salvini: apply it and lower the tax wedge - in addition to the League Italians ask it - and it will see that Italy will stand itself. On the umpteenth decree-law before the House today you have only made small adjustments and continue to liven up like this. How long will this teasing last? You cast Italy and the Italians figured it out. You have in fact limited fundamental freedoms, constitutionally guaranteed, through a politically shameful use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. Who knows what any university professor would think if one of his students supported the eligibility of this institutional misconception of yours? [[Applause]] By now you are watering, it is before everyone's eyes: save yourselves, you are still in time. In the decree-law in question all the responsibilities related to reopenings are downloaded on Regions and local authorities; it is a low profile game, but I inform you that our governors and mayors are much closer than you to the citizens and are not afraid to take responsibility for it, because Italy has to leave. In the measure is previewed that the economic, productive and social activities are carried out in compliance with protocols and guidelines suitable to prevent and reduce the contagion. These protocols must be assumed on the basis of clear and univocal scientific evidence: enough, we do not need any further confusion, but a few certain rules, that allow Italians to work and the economy to restart immediately. Once again, the absence of the school theme is evident: you have missed yet another opportunity. [[Applause.]] We care a lot, because it is the future of our young people, the competitiveness of our country: do you want to understand it? You have different visions also among yourselves, but in the interest of students and families, we ask you to accept our amendment and to adopt suitable ways to ensure teaching through real, empathic, presence and training in all schools, public and equal, taking all measures to ensure the safety of students, without forgetting the disabled children and teachers. In the last few hours a draft for the reopening of schools, in which there are still tables and consultation: I really ask you with all my heart: have love for this country, you are already too late [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u11	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u12	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it has become a commonplace in this House to remember, as Mr Fregolent did before, the pursuit of measures, each of which in some way is presumably a step ahead of the previous one, but also a denial of what the previous one had established. Today we too are embarrassed to have to intervene on what is objectively the structure of a decree-law that becomes immediately implemented, but it is then approved by Parliament within sixty days and we are dealing with things that are already in practice. The decree-law that we are about to approve today contains norms that go to mitigate and moderate a series of strong limits that the decree-law had placed to the freedoms that we could define civil, limits that, moreover, collide with Article 16 of the Constitution (the freedom of movement of citizens within their country) and touch all the other freedoms of which we have experienced in the days before May 16, like the possibility of the children to go to school. I am referring to all the problems related to distance learning, a blocked economic world and religious functions: a whole series of issues that are no longer as topical today as they were when these measures were approved. This gives us the structural measure of a Government that continuously chases, through the normative apparatus of urgency, situations that when they arrive are already overcome. To use an image of ancient mythology, it is as if we were always looking with our eyes behind what has already happened and did not have enough energy, lucidity and capacity to look at what is before us. This we would have expected from a decree-law, which, however, clearly, as it is, cannot give us; on the other hand, we ask for the approval of norms referring to a reality that has already passed. I would like to focus on three specific points. The first, which is particularly close to my heart, concerns school. I refer to what Mrs Fregolent has said about the confusion that is also around the subject today. We are going to approve measures that are outdated and anticipated by the guidelines that are running on all websites, but we do not yet have the documents in hand nor do we have any idea how it will work. We have experienced the heavy load of distance learning and we know that Italy is perhaps the only country in Europe that has not yet reopened the doors to students so that they can renew the experience of coexistence and sharing. We know that this is happening exclusively with the exams of maturity, but next year there are solutions of this tenor: double shifts; school also on Saturdays; rightly, the 33 hours of extra lesson for civic education (well come for all of us in schools); we know that there will be a fried mixture of teaching at a distance and in presence; we know of the desire to combine the classrooms - as we are told - also in view of the possibility of recruiting spaces outside the schools, thanks to alliances with the local authorities; of what will be the school, however, nothing is told us concretely. We know, however, that there is a stubborn blindness, with a cross-eyed gaze, a sort of structural hostility with which the Government looks to the parified school. During the lockdown experience, there was a cultural TV bombing, compared to this didactic, in which every night we were told how good our teachers were and how rich their imagination and how good our students were, but today we know that excellence was achieved by a minimal number of schools. The rug description that is being made reveals instead an ex post syndrome, which affects most schools and children and has affected adolescents and children after this period of segregation. That's not what they say. Today, therefore, we approve of a measure that is not only out of date, but does not even have a future perspective: it is as if we had not learned the lesson. The same is true of another area, which I would also like to point out, of economic recovery. We are told every night on television that, for example, the integration fund has been reached, that everyone has it and it is minimal the number of people who are not there: I invite anyone, however, to take a walk in the shops of the surroundings, from the ice cream shop, to the shoe shop, to the restaurant, to see for himself that it is not true. It seems that there is a determined obstruction towards the people closest to us, who work around us, have not received the integration fund and are in serious economic difficulties. With all the sequence of the writings "Rent" on the shops around here because they will not reopen, we wonder where this absolute schizophrenia is between the announcement, the bill presented today and reality. Does politics really look at reality? Do you still have the ability to observe what is happening or, inside your rooms, your general states, your toilets and magic circles, tell a story that is not the true story of what happens outside? There will be a time when, all together, we will discover that the king is naked and what we are told does not correspond to reality. Moreover, we are asked to vote on this measure, a rule that is outdated and does not even make amends to the mistakes made, because it simply proposes solutions that are already at odds with and in contradiction with the criterion of reality. Third point (as we say in Jargon: third, but not third): we have all lived within a system of delegation of responsibility, which was not granted, as is natural in the system of a parliamentary Republic, by structural law to the Assembly of Parliament, but moved to the outside, in the name of a scientific and technical competence in the field of health and economic, which should have guaranteed better decisions and more effective proposals to the country. We know that we live day by day, in the context of the systematic contradiction, not only among the virologists: I do not know if colleagues have noticed us, but now on television they no longer write the title "Virological," because such an abuse of position took place, which had become truly unbearable to witness these oppositions, so at least the underbelly have changed their term. We live with these ideas: gloves yes; no, much better wash hands than wear gloves; masks yes, but since 1 July not; distance of two meters; no, of a meter. We live in an apparatus of rules of systematic contradiction, on which we have built the system of stakes, obstacles and prevention let us call it that. There is nothing clear in this document, nor do we know what it will say next. We live at a time when the country is handed over to uncertainty: schools, because parents do not know what will happen; jobs, because people do not know whether they will have the integration fund, or whether they will be able to return to work in a reasonably short time. I'm joking, because this is also an experience that each of us can do, but the only certainty is the scooters. It is very pleasant to see the children playing around here, because, being a protected area, where cars are not allowed to cross, it becomes a safe place. Today we are voting on a rule that no longer has any sense of existence and we do not even have the possibility to say that, although it had its limits, the next legislative proposal that we will examine, yes, is clear, has made amends and solves the problems. Here, this is the real crisis that we are experiencing: it is not only from coronavirus, from Covid-19, but from structural mental confusion, from which we do not see the exit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u13	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u14	Mr President, this Government, of which the Ministers are of course absent, which we never see: they want to work in August, but they are not in the Chamber even in June nor were there in April or May... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u15	The government is represented, Senator Bergesio.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u16	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). It's a shame! This government not only fails to keep up with the times we live, but moves constantly and perennially behind schedule. This is demonstrated by today's debate: we are debating and then voting on an urgent decree-law, called'repartures', approved by the Council of Ministers on 16 May, almost a month and a half ago, namely a geological era with regard to the health history of the Covid-19. This decree-law had been written to deal with the end of the pandemic emergency, which we of the League had read in a still exaggeratedly restrictive sense, well in advance; today it reveals itself for what it poses: a multiplicity of legal problems, in which it is complicated to distangle and the companies, the enterprises, the families and all the institutions struggle to move because of the too many laces and laces. It has been defined by the media as a warm cloth, which has failed to fill an emerging situation, completely losing sight of the dramatic economic situation, which is unfortunately destined to worsen when, next September, the blockade of redundancies will be lifted and the measures put in place to protect workers, i.e. the Cassa Integrazione, will end. These are measures which, unfortunately, for tens of thousands of workers have only been announced and promised. The INPS also admitted that more than 140,000 workers are still waiting for the first cash benefit. This is very serious: they have been waiting for more than three and a half months. [[Applause]] The government, the one absent from this House, struggles to keep its commitments, less to make promises. On March 26, the Premier promised that all workers would be paid by April 15th. The Minister of Labour, Nunzia Catalfo, announced the latest payments by early June. After the protests, including the Lega-Salvini Premier, at the INPS Institute in the face of unacceptable delays, the president of the INPS undertook to make payments by June 12: still nothing, completely absent this unjustifiable non-payment direct of the Integration Fund, instead left in the hands of the entrepreneurs. The entrepreneurs, who already have serious liquidity problems and who call us every day and call us because of the closures, have therefore been burdened with this other task, that to anticipate the salaries to the employees who, otherwise, were not in a position to survive their families, to pay the rents, to bear the normal costs of life. Yes, they are those entrepreneurs, those who produce work and generate wealth in Italy: without entrepreneurs there would be no work and, without work, there is no society. You have promised them a liquidity that has never been there, that they have been able to obtain in very few, only subjecting themselves to real hellish groups of permits and certificates. Entrepreneurs, including small and very small family businesses, and freelance professionals, have therefore wasted time among accountants, banks and requests for certificates, in order to obtain an advance guaranteed by the State but paying out interest, and many of them have closed down, because they are unable to bear the costs. You have confused the blockage of redundancies with the safeguarding of jobs. You have noticed today, two months after the day you wrote this decree-law, that many companies have not reopened their doors. The companies do not reopen by decree; the companies reopen if they have the economic strength to stand! [[Applause]] Three out of ten companies, based on data from a few days ago, preferred to remain closed and were forced to do so. The vast majority of these will no longer reopen, because they have not held the forced stop and have failed to obtain liquidity. I say this here in this House: we must urge the Central Mediocredit because there are hundreds of thousands of firm practices. Bernardo Mattarella, nephew of the authoritative President of the Republic, who is CEO the Central Mediocredito said in an interview that they have 35 billion euros of credits to support towards the enterprises. This institution must be strengthened and deburred. We don't need bureaucrats anymore, we need concreteness. [[Applause]] You have suspended payments for a few weeks when, on the other hand, there are entire sectors that will have the whole year compromised: tourism, trade, crafts, transport, the agri-food industry, construction. Let's ask a question. The real estate agencies tell us: no one signs any compromise, no one wants to make an act of purchase that he had already anticipated. Why? But do you plan to restart the country with the suspension of payments until June? No, this isn't working. We have asked you to implement the suspension. The whole center-right asked you to make a fiscal white year. This would be crucial for all Italians. [[Applause]] Then we said to apply the flat tax, a measure that works and that even the Movimento 5 Stars proposed it. Let's speed up on this, and in this case, too, you said no. Then we are surprised that a company like Campari has chosen to move its headquarters to Holland. Yesterday the popular question was: why? It is very simple: fewer bureaucratic obstacles, fewer taxes and also the cost of labour (a 30% less than in Italy). Let us always remember that if we do not help companies we do not help our country. But we are still here to listen to the Minister of Agricultural Policy who tells us the story that in order to fill the need for labour in Italy it is necessary to do the sanatoria of the illegals [[Applause]] , a disaster for the safety and future of our unemployed. I find it hard to think that a government elected by Italians is going to wage war on the unemployed and Italian workers. This is very serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u17	Conclude, Senator Bergesio.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u18	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). I take back the time my colleagues didn't use, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already given you an extra minute. You have to finish. Thank you. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). The caporalate must fight it our Forces of the Order with the controls, not the unjustified and absurd sanatories that once again will pay the Italian entrepreneurs. I conclude by saying that the President of the Count Council, our pyrotechnician Council President never elected by Italian citizens, after ten days of the catwalk called "States General" has proposed, as many newspapers have titled, the absolute nothingness. Then roll up your sleeves as a government and start working for Italians who have been left completely alone and have been abandoned, not by executives and officials but by your incompetence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u20	Mr President, the need for change is a genre that has roots in Greek culture. In more recent times, the need for simplification has been added because, continuing to promulgate stratified regulatory changes, a reality has crystallized that can hardly be followed to the letter without incurring some counter-indication. An example could be the guidelines on the sanitization of the environments introduced by the Ministry of Health with circular of 22 May, to which our amendment 1.26 sought to remedy some, asking to simplify the procedures, while safeguarding the safety of users and managers, reducing the administrative requirements and leaving to the free initiative the implementing choices of disinfection and sanitization, cultivating the principle of an increasingly punctual and conscious individual and collective responsibility. Not only has our comments been disregarded in the Commission on this matter, but there is no evidence in this House that it really wants to make a change in the interests of the community. [[Applause]] The problem, from our point of view, is that changing and simplifying is only possible and if you first deepen, in a truly meticulous way, all the details on which you have to intervene. Thus one of the side effects of lockdown is a growing discomfort even in pre-adolescent and adolescence, which can result in early depression. The idea, only the idea of dividing pupils with dividers seems to be thought of by those who are not very familiar or still do not remember how important socialization was at that age. [[Applause]] and the inclusive relationship of children, especially if already suffering from other disabilities, such as cognitive fragility, behavioral and learning disorders, just to name a few. The idea of creating divisive barriers therefore goes in the opposite direction to psychological prevention, even before physical. [[Applause.]] Fortunately, we stopped a moment before the precipice and did not proceed any further, but there are countless cases in which the experience of those who knew the topics gradually in discussion has not been taken into account and there has been a further stratification on standards that would have already had to be updated and deburred, having as its final objective simplification in substance (but really). Amendment 1,18, tabled by my Group, had and has the aim of directing the Commission on the resumption of frontal didactic activity for all students, not forgetting to enhance education on healthy lifestyles and prevention, which obviously in this particular and delicate historical moment could have made the difference only if we had already taught them prevention not only health, but social, value and education. Well, we can start from the schools to fight communicable diseases with the education and promotion of healthy lifestyles, which are the basis of the condition of well-being of future citizens; in a word, invest in education and health promotion, making them the subject of a new formative perspective of prevention, which sees side by side health workers, teachers and parents in the educational challenge and growth of values that must accompany future generations in the difficult art of facing life with greater security in their capacity as citizens, starting from appropriate practices of hygiene and the use of devices that will have to become for a long time our daily life. As always we are urged to devote more attention to what is proposed and discussed in the institutional fora - Commissions and Assembly - before the final drafting of acts that will affect the health and economic future of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u21	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before us is essentially a late and posthumous act which tends to heal a number of things that have already happened or that have been settled most of the time through DPCM. I do not want to retrace the controversy and debate on the legislative sources, which also existed, because in the most acute phase of the emergency we have seen several times fundamental issues, which also concerned primary rights, such as the right to meet, to meet, religious freedom and anything else, regulated or limited through DPCM. There was also controversy, but at the time of the epidemic the health aspect - let us be frank - was prevalent over the legal-doctrinal discussions, which also had hospitality in newspapers and magazines, in the night press conferences and in everything we have experienced, about the fact that the DPCM was enough. I do not want to use the few minutes at my disposal to have this kind of discussion. I want to take this opportunity to say that here we are now regulating a whole range of aspects, such as distance, but personally at that stage I challenged very much the directives of the INAIL, those that initially said that on the bus you were at a meter, at the restaurant two meters and on the beach at four meters. Then, when we contested - and it happened to me as a parliamentary - the action of INAIL, this institute replied that they had elaborated them on the indication of the virologies and doctors. In fact, the INAIL directives had a double signature: the summit of INAIL and health institutions. After that, the regions also intervened (on one of those evenings when measures were put in place) and they rightly obtained - we too had advocated it by Parliament as far as possible - a homogeneous criterion. It is not that the virus on the bus is dangerous at one meter, while on the beach you have to predict four and at the restaurant two, as initially expected. I also want to take this opportunity to complain about what has not been done, in addition to what has been announced or regulated lately, because here we say so many things, we mention school, we even mention the Vatican and any other topic, but we do not talk - only some colleagues have done so - about failures. I take the opportunity of this umpteenth debate on a decree-law (now there are two or three of them per week, even in a legislative disorder that I deprecate and blame) to underline what has not been done. These days I have witnessed the shameless lies of the President of the Tridico INPS, who said that by Friday, June 12, everyone would be paid. He lied shamefully, confusing questions with people! [[Applause]] When I pulled out tables, which turned out to be true because they were of INPS source, I explained that for the Integration Fund an account is the question, one account is the people, because the company can ask the question for one person, for two, for ten or percent people. They played tricks and even today there are people who haven't been paid. And it was so true that I said that more than a million people didn't see a lira; they "sailed in the handle." Tridico went on television last Sunday, which was already late June, to say that on May 31 there were 25,000 unpaid. But tell us about June 17, tell us about June 20; tell us how many are on June 12, the date that unilaterally the INPS chose, without any compulsion, to announce that everyone would be paid. They could say that they had difficulties, that they were millions of questions, that it was an emergency; they could say "sorry" to us (even Count at some point I think he apologized for the many mistakes made). So Tridico lied and Catalog covered for him. Tridico has to resign for a very simple reason: not because Gasparri or Forza Italia says it, but because the day before yesterday in the daily newspaper "la Repubblica", therefore a source certainly not close to the center right, the president of the board of address and vigilance of the INPS Loy, a trade unionist, has confirmed that 1,2 million people are not paid. Loy said that last night in an interview with Tg2. If a supervisory board denounces a fact and nothing happens, what supervision is it? Tridico and Catalogo at home now! [[Applause]] Liars! They lied and robbed the workers, who didn't take a euro. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u23	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u24	Mr President, the recent history of our country and the work of the Government and our Parliament has been so rapid and events have crossed over so much that even the things we are talking about today, of course, are now part of history, because it has been quite a while since these rules are active. We continue to thank the white shirts and nurses, but I must say that the Government does so in words and not yet with the facts, because they are still waiting and, after all Italy has started the lawsuits against doctors, no one is still concerned with their protection and that of health workers, at least with regard to legal and civil causes. Certainly the situation is not clear yet, just see what is happening in Lazio, where we see outbreaks. The legislative decree under consideration, however, takes one step further than the one adopted a month ago, when Parliament had been completely dismissed from its role. We need concrete actions, as well as the various interventions, which have already been mentioned. We know that the decree of 17 May has profoundly affected social relations and the way in which citizens have to live their interpersonal relationships. However, this system has also had a devastating impact on the economic and productive fabric and the choices of the Government have been uncourageable and I would say superficial enough to allow not only citizens to leave safely in phase 2 but also to restart that small thing called "consumers." As has just been said, there are still thousands of Italians waiting for the March Integration Fund. I can say that from my personal experience, because one of my employees, who with the study closed for three months has received his salary since March thanks to me (the same applies to thousands of other employers), has not yet seen "a lira" of cash integration. On the other hand, I read that yesterday Minister Catalfo declared that there are already 100,000 questions escaped from the INPS for the bonus colf and caregivers. It is sacrosanct, but did you realize that the bonus for collaborators and caregivers also take it regularly hired people who have received their salary regularly throughout the period? [[Applause]] Do you know that this is something that the worker directly asks, certainly not the employer, why must he prove that he has not worked? You know that many people have worked completely in black in four or five families, leaving the house in the morning with a receipt of bread to show that they had gone out to shop, perhaps with smug employers, who fired them, because so much "pays Pants," that is the State, that is us. I also give you a little news, because perhaps the Government is not so aware of what happens in real life: the "people's lawyer", during the States General, seemed to me in fact Maria Antoinette inviting to eat the brioches. As for the regularization of the 600,000 - say - illegals, do you know that many of these go to offer 2,000 or 3000 euros to those in charge of the employment center, asking him to find an employer who says that he has worked in black for him for three months, in order to get the sanatoria? I think someone should control these things, because in real life people and citizens know that and we are ready to confirm it with an open prosecutor. However, we know that without corporate and public welfare in this situation the State would not have done much. Let us not talk about the issue of women, whose lives have been completely changed. There is a lot of talk about smart working, especially in the public administration (and we say thanks to all those in the public administration, such as health workers, law enforcement, fire department, drivers of means of transport, risked and sometimes lost their lives) but we also know that many, working from home, did not work much. I am horrified to hear that we are talking about continuing the smart working until December 31 of this year. You have to be really crazy. But do we not know that consumption and induced consumption are decreasing? [[Applause]] In addition to the fact that women work a lot and are then left at home, other than crystal roof! This will affect layoffs because if a company, after six months, sees that it can do less than 30 percent of its employees who work at home will fire them. There will also be consequences for the real estate sector because if the staff decreases, the property will be left behind and the leases will fall. Obviously these things are not of interest to the government or - I repeat - I do not know which planet the Executive is living on. As for the school, it has already been said - but even repeating it doesn't feel anything - that you have completely forgotten the school, the university, the children and the families while talking about smart working. We haven't heard from Minister Azzolina in days. We know that, fortunately, the interviews he gives in the newspapers are written to her and so it's okay; therefore, on the one hand, I am pleased that she doesn't speak because obviously, after the continuous demonstrations in the streets of teachers and parents, she realized that it is better to shut up. I wish he would leave his post because - for sure - someone more competent than you is also among the forces of majority. We still don't know how and when our kids will be back in class. Above all, many children will no longer find their class. My reference is to the equal schools, the most affected by the health emergency, but also the least protected by the State, while being part, by Constitution, of a single national system of education. The list of closures caused by the Covid extends with the passing of the weeks and if the government wants to go to see just consult, for example, the site of Sister Anna Monia Alfieri, promoter also of the flash mob that last Thursday brought hundreds of representatives of non-state public schools to demonstrate outside the Chamber of Deputies, to which Forza Italia has never failed its support. At the moment 37 closures have been registered, for 1,901 students, who are now considered orphans of the school. What does Minister Azzolina mean when he says no one should be left behind? Do you know that in September these children will no longer find their own school and that their transfer to state schools will cost at least 16 million euros (each state school student costs in fact 8,500 a year, while the peer schools are given 500 euros per student)? [[Applause]] And besides the cost, where will he put them? In fact, for now they have closed 37 peer schools, but if the number were to reach for example 150 (and I remember that the number of students of the peer schools is about 900,000) where will it put them? Do you want to hibernate them in the plexiglass? I don't know. Maybe this is a proposal. I truly believe that the Government is more connected with the various virtual platforms than with the real world. The last example of the breakdown between reality and ministerial bureaucracy, always to the detriment of peer schools, is reported by the association La nostra famiglia, which since 1946 has dedicated itself to the care and rehabilitation of people with disabilities, especially in evolutionary age, with tens of thousands of small patients from all over Italy. For the distance training of nursery and nursery educators on the problems of autistic children, the Higher Institute of Health has developed a special platform. However, the Ministry of Education has made this platform available exclusively to state school teachers, with the result that most of the workers (since 65% of the services for children from zero to six years old are provided by peer schools) have been unable to do anything, thus causing serious damage to autistic children, since their full social inclusion begins in child care. In short, I have no words and you can hear other words going down the streets and questioning the workers. I believe that if you do not give answers to the September emergency (when people will chase everyone, and I say everyone, because they will be hungry), talking about these issues without giving answers, without a project or a program (which we are still waiting for and which the country is waiting for), the word that comes to my mind to conclude is shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u25	Mr President, the decree-law at our examination marks the end of a phase, of a moment when we had the "man only in command" who managed the beginning of the emergent phase with his DPCMs - a man only in command, I would add, even inconclusive and confusing - and the transition to another epoch. In those days, as mayor, I had breathed a sigh of relief; I thought that with the first decree-law, after so many decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, there could be a return to democracy and respect for the rules. Unfortunately, this was not the case because with these decree-laws, the "man only in command", accompanied by the men of the government, thought well to systematically trample on Parliament, both the Senate and the House. [[Applause]] Nothing has changed, and the decree-laws that followed this we are discussing today have not had any effect on Italians. I am referring to two out of all: the liquidity decree-law, which has only the name of liquidity, did not provide a single aid to entrepreneurs, professionals and families; the re-launched decree-law, which the same majority had bogged down in the Chamber of Deputies. What phase, after the decree-law, opened concretely for Italy? It has been confirmed that the current Government does not want and does not know how to listen; it shuns from the confrontation, even rejects the many suggestions that the opposition, and in particular the League, has made repeatedly, with names and surnames and concrete proposals, and is locked - today, when the Italians are in suffering, on their knees - in a luxury building to discuss themselves without producing a least result! [[Applause]] Even today we do not know what the general states have given birth to, and in all this - let us face it, ladies and gentlemen, and let us tell the Italians - what happened to the recovery plan drawn up by the task force led by Colao, which we paid with our money? [[Applause]] What happened to the raise plan? Perhaps we have a doubt; perhaps that plan has within it several proposals that the League has repeatedly made to President Conte and the Government, so this thing is not well accepted, it is not well seen by the Government. This era was also marked by conflict. Gentlemen of the Government, President Conte has done nothing but tear the territories apart; he has done nothing but quarrel with the territories. He began, in the culmination of the phase of the health emergency, arguing with the governors; he did so later, when the League asked for differentiated reopenings. The League - that party that those who want to offend still paint with the North Party - said to restart the regions of the South that did not have infection and that had passed the critical phase. This Government has argued with the governors, even challenging an order from the President of Calabria. This said the League, to leave again: that whoever had the conditions to leave could do so. You prevented it and you also created a conflict with the mayors. Today mayors are tired of your fine words; mayors need real money, otherwise municipalities will default! Lack of listening and conflict: this is phase 2; a phase in which you have reopened, and not everything. Before, many colleagues spoke of schools; a phase 2 where absurd things happened: zero aid and many taxes. We had proposed flat tax, fiscal white year and sburocratization. You didn't do any of this, even though there are zero-cost measures. What do we remember about this phase 2? Two firm-image that are sad for Italy: the tears of Bellanova that, instead of thinking of the Italians, thought to put in place and regularize the illegals; and that ugly phrase, which must be censored without if and without but, of the president of the INPS, who, to try to camouflage his failures, has defined Italian entrepreneurs as opportunists and lazy, when in reality, after doctors, nurses and health personnel, are the real heroes of this Italy! [[Applause.]] Then there's another problem. I know we ask too much, gentlemen of the government, but which Italy do you think? From your chatter and your measures there is no prospect; there is no plan of Italy that will be from here to the next few years. Which Italy do you want? Do you want the Italy of hope or the Italy of obsession, which still today makes you put at the top of your priorities the cancellation of the decrees-security law, which have protected the security of Italy? [[Applause]] Or do you want the Italy of hope, the Italy of Genoa, the Italy that opens the yards, the Italy that wants to review its entrepreneurs raise the saracinesche with smile and confidence? At the moment you have given us only one Italy (and I say it with sadness and broken heart): the Italy of the spot, the Italy of improvisation and approximation. President Conte behaves to the necessity and yesterday he pulled out the story of VAT, which promises to the Italians what is not his, what he cannot give; more or less as he did Totò with tourists with the Trevi Fountain, but with two differences: Totò was Totò and that today there is nothing to laugh about in Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 33 of 16 May 2020. After about three months of blocking that also concerned the movements, this decree has allowed a gradual restart in the matter of mobility between Regions, to date from 3 June. What's different for schools, closed from March 9th and never reopened again. What does the block of mobility share with the suspension of lessons? They are united by the immobilization and inability of this Government to exploit the total blocking period to which the entire Nation has been subjected in order to carry out the maintenance, safety and, in the case of the school, also programming for the restart with the anti-Covid prescriptions. As for the motorway network, today we find ourselves having a Region like Liguria completely blocked, from east to west, because of the works present on the whole stretch. We are talking about at least sixty yards, thirty-nine tunnels considered not to be safe and many others still to be inspected. Therefore, to the economic damage caused by the Covid will have to be added those deriving from the inability management of the current Minister of the infrastructures, that in his visit to Imperia, instead of apologizing and recognizing own errors and own limits, he wanted to give lessons to Salvini, denying even the investments made in Liguria when the League was to the Government. [[Applause.]] Investments that, I remind you, dear Minister, have exceeded the billion euros thanks to the work of the then Deputy Minister Edoardo Rixi. Of course, I understand that the confrontation, for how the emergency was managed, between the reconstruction of the Morandi bridge (also in this case thanks to the vice minister Rixi, the mayor Bucci and the president of the Toti Region) and the management of the reconstruction of the bridge of Albiano Magra is to say the least merciful. Almost three months after the collapse, in fact, everything is still where it collapsed, that is in the bed of the river. So, to date, no work done, no project presented. The only thing you have managed to do, Minister, is to remove Pontremolese from the priority works. On the other hand, that the famous 96 million euros included in the decree-law relaunch and intended for the completion of phase 1 were a mirage was obvious. Mr Undersecretary, I know that the re-launching decree has nothing to do with it and that the 96 million are needed to finish phase 1, but in fact this work has been reversed between those that were considered priority and the allocation of resources in the re-launching decree will start concretely from 2025 to end in 2032. These are real data, contained in the decree-law. You can also do without interrupting me. As Secretary, you should respect those who are expressing their views at the moment. However, there is no mention of the resources needed for the Pontremolese railway tunnel, even in the dream book. The Minister has stated that he is a simple person and that it is used in his country to say that it is the facts that matter. I fully agree with this concept, which is a pity that it does not suit you; in fact, you make so many good speeches but few facts, indeed in this you manage to overcome the Minister who preceded you. Even on the subject of school is not better: the buildings have remained as well as the students have left them. In France they used the period of total blockade to carry out the renovations and the preparation of the classrooms with the anti-Covid prescriptions; in Italy it was not so. Only today we are talking about a draft with the guidelines to be adopted in which many responsibilities will be discharged on the principals; therefore, so far there is no certainty of how, where, when and with whom the lessons will be held. There is then no certainty for the workers of the canteens: over 80,000 workers involved throughout Italy, almost half of them of school canteens. This category has ended the coverage of the social shock absorber with causal emergency Covid; in many have remained without income for three months due to the guilty delay in payments by the INPS. Moreover, icing on the cake, as every year they will see suspended their contracts with the end of the school year, remaining for the next few months without pay, without shock absorbers and without the possibility of looking for a new job. [[Applause]] ). With them there are many workers who have not yet received the integration fund and those who received it have had a misery. On the subject of school building we all know the need for important and non-derogable interventions, but also in this case you refused to listen to the mayors, who asked to use the Genoa system to quickly restructure the school complexes. We could guarantee the children a dignified restart as well as in safety, but alas you are too divided to decide things of common sense and that give certainties. The only security we have is that, according to the measure under consideration, all that is necessary to implement its contents will have to be without new burdens for public finance and using only the human, instrumental and financial resources already available to existing legislation. Too bad that the municipal authorities have empty coffers and that at risk there is precisely assistance to the weakest. In conclusion, the summary of the decree-law in question, which will soon become law, is that we have to manage ourselves. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u28	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u29	Mr President, today's Decree-Law No 33 of 2020 marks a two-fold turning point in the interventions to combat the coronavirus emergency and to get out of it. First of all, the turning point is the cessation of restrictions on movement from 18 May to 18 May within the regional territory; moreover, from 2 June, inter-regional movements and also to and from abroad are granted, except in cases of epidemiological risk, in accordance with principles of adequacy and proportionality. Therefore, with the decree-law in question we have come out of the phase of lockdown and we have regained, always with due care, our freedom. In this terrible period we have experienced what the limitation of freedom means, even though our mothers and our constituent fathers had already provided for a limitation for health reasons to Article 16 of our Constitutional Charter, which inspires many government measures. We have experienced the great discomfort of a limitation of freedom that has prevented us from seeing our loved ones, who perhaps lived in different regions and how complicated it is to raise the walls. As Calvin used to say in the "Barone rampante" (Barone rampante), if you raise a wall, think about what you leave out of the "Barone rampante" (Barone rampante). We are therefore in this second phase, in which a difficult balance must be struck between our responsibility and our freedom. We must take advantage forever of this experience, because the limitation of freedom has been a unique experience since the post-war period. The second breakthrough of this measure is the autonomy of the Regions. Many times, unfortunately, we have witnessed disputes between regions and government. With this decree is given greater autonomy to the Regions, which must monitor and ensure the containment of the contagion, always communicating the data to the Ministry of Health and the Higher Institute of Health, thus making the measures widening or restrictive and subordinate them to the course of the contagion. Of course, from this decree-law onward reality has gone on, in the sense that there have been, for example, regional guidelines for reopening and there are many reopenings made by this decree onward. There are, as I said, the guidelines for reopening approved by the Conference of Regions, which include recreational activities, so in the meantime we have taken a step further. I was very impressed by the words of the President of the State-Regions Conference, Stefano Bonaccini, on the occasion of the adoption of these guidelines on 9 June: We must look to the future with optimism and dynamism, without ever lowering our guard against compliance with the rules necessary for prevention. This double turn now demands another epoch, which we must all make together in the Government-Parliament relationship and in the majority-opposition relationship, a turning point also dictated by the issue, which some colleagues have mentioned before me, sometimes with polemical accents. I am referring to the fact that this decree also gives a legal framework to all the regulatory interventions so far carried out, from the administrative ones to the decrees, referring, of course, to Article 2 of the decree of 19 May. By this provision it is understood that the primary source must now be the legislative decree. This seems to be a formal theme, but it is a substantial theme because the epochal turning point that we must now give is that of the guidelines of a country. Since it will now only be regulated by primary source, we have even more duty to legislate, possibly simplifying, on the treasury of our country: school, university, economy and work. The theme of the school has been remembered by many. We are all very concerned about the reopening of schools, both because of the delay - my Group has said since the beginning of the pandemic - which we have accumulated in reopening, and because of the delay in the guidelines, which were outlined yesterday, but not yet confirmed (I believe that a conference of the Minister with the Regions is planned today). I believe that we need to deepen our awareness of the issue, of how important it is to act quickly, being close to school, for example to the principals. Of course the principle evoked by the guidelines of school autonomy is right, also because there are completely different territories, we think of mountain areas, how boys and girls will be able to reach schools and therefore the need to review transport. But we must be close to the principals, provide them with guidance, help them, support them; we cannot go back to simple school autonomy at this dramatic time. Above all, we must have the awareness and the loss on the human capital front. The posterity will be right about the damage of these three months of lockdown, but I believe that we need to be aware of this in the meantime. We need to talk about educational projects, not just security measures. We cannot talk only of meters; now even a small bar knows what the security measures are, but what is the teaching in the possible alternation between distance and presence? What is the theme of the workshops, which I do not think is there? How important is the learning of boys and girls in the lab? That's why we have to stay close to the principals and all the teachers. I believe that in recent months we have to make a call to arms from all over the country so that the school can reopen safely. [[Applause.]] All together. We cannot leave the subject to the responsibility for school autonomy. I don't think there's much talk about college. I have a son in my first year of university and he's naturally adapting to distance learning. I was very impressed by the hearing of the National Council of University Students in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, precisely on the occasion of the conversion into law of this decree-law. The young people representing the National Council of University Students are crying out: beware of the restarting phase, you must not leave the universities alone. It is right, legitimate university autonomy, but we do not leave universities alone, because the inequalities between universities and territories can be accentuated. This allows me to move on to the last issue that I would like to address here: social inequalities. I do not know how many of you have occasion at this stage to visit companies. In the country there is a climate sometimes very nice. I have reviewed in some companies a community climate between workers, workers and entrepreneurs. In fact, the issue of cash integration and liquidity that do not arrive in time concerns the business community and is very important and interesting in this phase of reopening and relaunching, in which workers and companies are often united. Of course, we too would have preferred fewer statements, including from the President of the INPS, on certain issues. We would have preferred to see some simplification proposals, such as the single social shock absorber, accepted. But the theme of the community, the resumption of a community journey must concern everyone a bit, must be our main theme: community-school, community-university and community-work-company. Less bureaucracy: we deal with matters in a less administrative way, but more with the warmth of wanting to solve the social problems facing us. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u31	Mr President, the provision for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 33 of 2020, introducing further urgent measures to deal with the epidemiological emergency, which is being discussed today, is - let's say - a small omnibus, a cauldron that once again confirms the absence of a system vision. It is also the umpteenth confirmation - I regret to note - of a continuous race to the correction ex post facto, after the fact, that is a posteriori. We have now got used to it, we have already discussed it in this House and it is useless to repeat it, because so much the country knows. We have seen a massive use of extraordinary regulatory instruments, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, justified by urgency, therefore administrative acts, which were then rushed to put a hat, a legislative framework and a legitimacy, with a sort of continuous sanatoria. On the subject of coronavirus and related interventions, we have lost count. Between laws, decrees, decrees-laws, circulars and ordinances, we have lost the bill, both in the Chamber and outside. According to the monitoring of the site of Openpolis, which arrives today, since the beginning of the emergency we have exceeded much - and the figure will surprise you - the 40,000 measures. There are 299 laws already, with today we will reach 300. Almost incalculable the number of implementing decrees. Overall, it has been calculated that, for 13 decrees-laws, still 165 implementing decrees are needed. Who knows what will happen, I dare not think so, with the decree relaunching, that legislative monster, in the process of approval, that has already realized nine implementing decrees, 94 are in the future and maybe will remain it for a long time. If we add the regional decrees and municipal acts, then we exceed the quota, as mentioned above, of the 40,000 measures. The first consideration that is imposed on objectivity, and imposes itself as a stone, is the absolute triumph of bureaucracy and confusion. Premier Conte continues to recite his propagandistic mantra: to unravel the state. And thank goodness! Instead, reality is another. Again, it is another case and a good opportunity has been missed to actually sburocratize, to give a scissor to the procedures that block everything, not from now on, it is obvious, but for years. No, you don't. An ocean of measures and an army of weird, useless, task forces (about 450 people in 15 bodies), composed of super-savvy men who were supposed to provide the General States with an armored plan for the rebirth of the country. That was what we were promised. The smoky press conference, however, almost emotional, by President Conte at the end of the work tells a whole other story and we are still waiting to understand what the proposals are. In short, the ancient weight of the bureaucracy has affected the crisis management, the stages 1, 2, 3, restarting and reopening. Unfortunately, the proposals of the Brothers of Italy have not been heard, and even less accepted, on reopenings and restartings. Not all of them, but I would like to remind you of the call for more simplifications, the interventions to compensate for losses (i.e. real liquidity and immediate compensation to compensate for losses), the lack of clarity of communication on the rules, times and methods of losses. Moreover, the fact of not making differences of ATECO and sector and of making everything a cauldron, a great chaos, instead of allowing a gradual reopening according to who was able to guarantee, with the reopening, the respect of the rules and the safety protocols. But no, it has reopened thanks to the strength, courage and resilience of Italians. I want to give a thought to all those who, on the other hand, have been closed by decree and lack of aid and have not yet reopened: they are at least 30% of the activities. Let's also say that the government has gone down and, without the proximity of the Regions, perhaps Italy would not have reopened at that precise moment. But let's move on. I want to choose one example, dramatic, of tilt among the many and I choose it because it has conditioned the daily life of millions of people, of adults and children. I am referring, of course, to the closure of schools in time for the re-opening of the country. Brothers of Italy has drawn up a package of proposals on the reopening of schools, with differentiated rules, precise rules, in relation, of course, to the order and grade of school and to the age groups. Instead, nothing: schools closed during the reopening and, I would like to remind you and we discussed it here in the Chamber, women who could not go back to work to stay at home to look after their children, marking, with this issue a social backwardness that brought the country back to the 1950s. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, the bulimia of presidential video-messaging and directing and the compulsive use of administrative acts, I would say - in a joke - that there has been a closure without criteria and reopening without a plan. Brothers of Italy has played its role responsibly since the beginning of the emergency. She voted on the deficits and was present. In conclusion, however, we want to say that, overall, over the whole Coronavirus emergency, too many things do not come back from the beginning. There have been responsibilities and omissions and they continue to exist. I repeat: Covid's emergency doesn't add up. There have been omissions and responsibilities to be identified. Who takes responsibility for saying, for example, that it was just an influence, that the asymptomatics were not contagious, that the virus did not remain on the objects and could I continue? Who is responsible for declaring the health emergency on 31 January and for not doing anything until the end of February? Who is responsible for delays in swabs and serological tests? Unfortunately, I could go on, but I will finish because the political account will come up sooner or later. We have not done this out of a sense of responsibility but the reality will depend on who has to justify omissions and responsibilities. It worries - and I say this without controversy - the inertia and delay of the Government, the confusion of the messages and above all this governmental storytelling that always tells a country that is not there, that does not exist, that we do not see, we do not live it because reality is quite different. What really strikes, even after the last General States, is not the lack of competence, it is not the lack of coordination, it is not the lack of system, but it is a much simpler thing. What is striking and worrying is the lack of common sense, perception and dimension of a normality that politics should never lose sight of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u32	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u33	Mr President, today we are talking about the conversion into law of the decree which, in fact, closes the emergency phase, phase 1. I have listened to many speeches on the not relevant economy, because the decree in our examination is due and contains simply the reopening of mobility between the regions, already happened from 18 May, and at international level. Finally, as Mr Parente has already said, it contains a renewed regional autonomy so that we can see, in the future, containment areas that are no longer so large, as happened during the lockdown that was actually dramatic from many points of view, both for the children who could not go to school and have seen their sociality interrupted, and for the enterprises, especially the small ones, which are always the most forgotten, and for the workers who have stayed at home. In the face of a tragedy, such an epidemic, however, the Government had no alternative but to invoke Article 16 of the Constitution and thus limit our freedoms to protect us. Having said that, I would like to return to the beginning of this epidemic which originated from a specific region: Lombardy. I always remember that if it wasn't for Lombardy, our country, probably, wouldn't have suffered this tragedy, so it makes me feel a lot of opposition, especially the one that governs the Region, accusing the central government of something that instead wasn't well managed at the local level. With regard to health, it is true that the outbreaks have occurred mainly in private health facilities and in the RSA, therefore in that Lombardo model of public and private management which, of course, we must say that it has failed. The Lombard model of health has failed and forced the whole of Italy to lockdown. As long as we don't realize this, we're probably not gonna solve this. About the outbreaks in Lazio, nominated by a colleague of mine... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u34	I've had everyone intervene. I've heard statements of shame, excuses, and anything. I therefore ask you to allow my colleague, who is expressing her opinion, to speak. Everyone's opinion can be expressed in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u35	[[Applause]] FACTORS (Mixed). With regard to the outbreaks in Lazio, mentioned by an opposition colleague, I agree that it will be necessary to review the way private health care is relied on in Lazio. I do not extend my time to tell those who have been entrusted with these structures over the years, with what methods of management and how few controls have been done in recent times compared to the private health care of Lazio, which often has only one name or few names. As regards the way in which the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers decreed, I have already said that there were no alternatives in the emergency phase and that only the President of the Council could intervene to protect public health, but I must also say that this procedure must now end. This is a decree that, in a nutshell, brings the responsibility for the management of the epidemic back to the regions. It's a different time to go back to normal. As far as the Colao plan is concerned, I would frankly take it and throw it in the basket; as it entered Parliament and for the objectives that my Movimento 5 Stars had set at that time, the Colao plan had nothing to do with it. I therefore hope that from these General States there will be documents that can finally be brought to Parliament in order to implement that stage 3 in which we need to rethink a rebirth of the country, having at heart in particular the repubblization of the structures, the common goods, the public school and so on, leaving then the funding to the peer schools (this is always my completely personal opinion), when there is a public school that has buildings that cannot contain the children at a distance of one meter, when they return to school. Let's try to tell ourselves how it is: it will be difficult to implement the circulars of Minister Azzolina precisely because of the lack of structures. I return to the school theme: here we refer to a previous decree and we are in July; the school must resume in September. Today I was reading the perplexities of the principals who are unable to guarantee safety standards. I believe that we must all commit ourselves, rather than criticize or complain, to making proposals on how to resume school in September. In September all Italian students must be able to review their schoolmates in appropriate facilities and identified as possible. We have very little time: let us all commit ourselves to this. I have nothing more to add than a decree-law which, after all, closes one stage and I hope opens another, where Parliament will be really central. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u36	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u37	Mr President, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, as has already been said, we are about to convert a decree-law into law. So far I have heard criticism of the use of a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers that such rules and a framework of reference that can actually generate overlaps with the first of the measures adopted, Decree-Law No 19, which provided for containment measures on the spread of the virus. Apparently, the measures contained in them could be overcome, because we now seem to have achieved some freedom, but we have just entered the famous phase 3, we have conquered freedom of movement and movement, but we have not eradicated the virus - I would like to remind this House too - which still circulates among us, although (as it seems) in a more contained and less aggressive way. It should be remembered that the state of emergency mentioned in this decree ends on 31 July 2020, so in just over a month. That provision shall apply until that date. A first order of provisions concerns, as has been said, movement, where - fortunately - the possibility is maintained, of course, in the regions, that in the event of worsening of the epidemiological situation, restrictive measures may still be taken to contain possible outbreaks. From 3 June, the start date of phase 3, it is possible to circulate interregionally, according to principles of adequacy and proportionality to the epidemiological risk. It should be remembered that monitoring of the contagions carried out by the Regions together with the Ministry of Health remains absolutely important. This is a fundamental point: as soon as we have the warnings, we must intervene. The measure, of course, also contains provisions relating to quarantine. I remember that sanctions are laid down for those who go out knowing that they are in quarantine. This is essential because going out, being in quarantine, is at the expense of the welfare of all public health. To this is added the prohibition of assembly that I tell you, colleagues, does not make the pair with what is happening in the squares, in the cities and on the Italian beaches. We see everywhere gatherings without devices, without anything. There is a sort of general relaxation - perhaps the Italians really needed, though not so much - and it seems that citizens are no longer afraid of the virus as a few months ago. These data are also obvious because only 3 million Italians have downloaded the Immuni app. There is fear of giving your data. Instead almost 60 million Italians downloaded those apps game - because they are - where they even make their photos available. These, yes, are certainly data that some private companies will use in other ways. So, be careful. I also recall the lack of adherence to the serological investigation made by the Ministry of which we discussed in the Assembly last week; it was also converted into law and is now being examined by the House. Such an investigation is really important to have a geographical mapping of our nation and understand how the virus moves. More and more often we see people without devices, without the mask; it is not a good signal and we expect from one moment to the next unfortunately to go back. Let us hope this is not the case, but we see the situation of other nations; see what is happening in Germany; in Portugal they are closing, restoring lockdown and even in China, for only 54 cases, it is closing again. The danger of the second waves therefore exists, we are seeing it, it must not be underestimated, but it must be managed through measures, such as that at our examination, able to give us normative frames within which to move, that are of reference to slow down or restrict the prohibitions according to safety requirements. On the other hand, I must point out that it was thanks to the efficiency of the measures taken to prevent, protect and distance social and to the rules of this rank issued during this period, which in a few months - I remember three months - we managed to contain and manage the epidemic. Obviously this is not without controversy, such as those we have heard before. I must say, however, that if we can now move with a little more freedom, we have achieved the goal. We must not forget - I repeat - that the Covid-19 is still with us. We must not lower our guard and we must remember this - we must remember it here too because memory is really labile - especially for health workers who have fought so much to keep people alive and also for the 34,000 Italians who are no longer there. Having said that at this stage, the main objective is to restart the country. I would like to make a note; first it was said that the babysitter bonus also perceive it by the workers. Of course, workers, especially women, must feel it, which has put us most in this emergency. In fact, women with the burden of their families, with their children to be cared for and the tasks assigned by the schools, had the greatest load. So give women the opportunity to go back to work, as I heard from other colleagues before, and on this there was an important step, and have the opportunity of a bonus to pay those who can manage their children at home, taking up the job without losing it, I think it was a great opportunity. After that, it is right to carry out checks; I agree that it is indeed necessary to verify who was entitled and who was not. Another important thing, which has been said before and which I repeat, is to reopen in absolute safety all schools, public and equal, with the resumption of the frontal didactic activity; the real school is frontal, because only in this way are interpersonal relations established between students and teachers. It is therefore important to return to having equal opportunities for education for all, including the adoption of methods of prevention (the guidelines issued in these days are under discussion) aimed at ensuring maximum safety conditions for all (doctors, school workers, students and families). We will also need to be careful and above all to the inclusive relationships of children with disabilities, with cognitive and behavioural fragility and with learning disorders, because unfortunately there has been a worsening of these students, so as not to really leave anyone behind. It is necessary and important - because the health crisis has led to an economic crisis - that the economic, productive and social activities be applied methodological criteria and products adapted to the disinfection and sanitization of the environments in which the activities are carried out, but which are recognized only by those responsible for certifying and ensuring their effectiveness. I would remind you that for the productive activities, protocols have been drawn up shared with the unions, which have allowed the recovery in almost all sectors. It is now, of course, up to all of us, employers and workers, to respect safety standards, because they are important; we must not let ourselves go into work either, but we must respect all the rules during work. It is a sacrifice, yes, it is true, it is also a sacrifice for us; sometimes, as soon as we can, we remove the mask, but only when it can be removed. Where, instead, it is necessary to keep it, that is, indoors, it is just an additional sacrifice. If we want to bring respect to those who in these months - as I mentioned before - have never spared themselves (including the Forces of Order and the health personnel, who have guided us in these months), then it is worth making this sacrifice. Above all we can no longer afford to go back to the first months of the year, because we would no longer have the strength, not even economic. Although with so many problems from the bureaucratic point of view, which were mentioned earlier, we have managed to donate the resources; we have not yet finished, because the decree relaunch is under consideration in the House. We absolutely need to consider and really look at what happened three months ago, to avoid being too relaxed. Each of us will have to make all these assessments before we think that we have left the drama behind. Unfortunately, it is only removed and only one treatment and the vaccine will reassure us. Then, yes, we can resume to behave freely; until then we will have to be patient and demonstrate civic sense, for the good of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to divide my speech into two parts, talking about the positive aspects of this decree-law and then about the negative aspects. The first positive thing is that in this decree-law you put some order in the forest and in the jungle of urgent decree that there was, contradictory and swinging; this is definitely a positive fact. But beyond that, I cannot see any other element of positivity that can cause my political side and myself to vote in favour of this measure. The confusion between the various competences remains in all its entirety and in all its contradiction. It has not yet been clearly understood what are the competences of the State, what are the competences of the Region and what are the competences of the Municipalities; you still travel to the footprint. We are also pervaded by a sort of frustration, because we are talking about a decree-law that has already produced its effects. It is therefore a posthumous debate, in which we practice evaluations, criticism and proposals, in the knowledge that none of these elements can be taken into account. This government has been able to transform a fact, that of the coronavirus, into an emerging situation. I believe that emergency management should go through Parliament's assessment and contribution. I want to remind you, because sooner or later we should address this issue, a controversy that we have read in the past weeks in the newspapers between the Undersecretary Sileri and the structure of the Ministry of Health, in which the Undersecretary complained that, despite his role as Government, he had not been placed in the conditions of access to important acts of the Ministry. There was an answer, which I would call an out-of-court confession, to a senior director of the Ministry of Health, who peacefully confirmed that the Ministry and therefore the Government were informed of the seriousness of the situation that had already been anticipated since mid-January. I would like to remind you that the statement of the state of emergency was issued on 31 January. The Government was fully aware of the seriousness of the problem and its degree of contagiousness and, always this senior director of the Ministry of Health said that they had learned it, but that they felt that they kept it reserved not only for citizens, but even for members of the Government, so as not to create alarmism, when instead in January there were the conditions to assume all those determinations, which would have allowed to better deal with this emergency. I want to remind you that despite this dossier - to which I do not know if one day we will have access, perhaps past this moment - it was in the government's possession since January and despite the announcement of the state of emergency on 31 January, we had to wait March to have the lockdown. So there was a month, practically, in which the government "pettinated the dolls," as an authoritative political exponent of the majority would say, and then offered us a series of decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers, who violated the law and the Constitution. It is not possible to give urgency to the use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, because it was possible to put Parliament in a position to decide and evaluate. If perhaps, for lockdown, the Assembly did not meet as it should have been, however, there was for the Government the possibility of summoning the Leaders and leaders of parties or coalitions, but it did not and decided in solitude, making use of so-called teams, commissions or representations - we no longer know how to define them - that they have replaced the political power, which is the only one that has the power and the prerogative to decide. Certainly the scientists, the technicians, the categories, the representatives of the workers and all those we want can speak, but the last word must take politics. Politics is responsible for the choices. I therefore turn to the President-in-Office of the Council, who calls himself the people's lawyer. I mean, the relationship between lawyer and client is a trust relationship. The lawyer is chosen, but President Conte has not been chosen by anyone, unlike us who represent the people and we must be vigilant here about the government's activity and that we are representative and sounding board of the problems of the country. On all of this, however, President Conte is shrugging. Since he has never had an election campaign, since he has never asked for a vote and has never been elected by anyone, we understand that Parliament, Members of Parliament, Senators and Members of Parliament are something that we could do absolutely without. Let us then return to man's philosophy only at the command, which now, after having ignored the suggestions, proposals and interventions of the opposition, which happened to have been collected in the famous dossier Colao, about which we no longer talk, begins to quarrel even with those of its majority, as if to say: "I am you and I... and the rest we all know. But there is also a contradiction in the exercise of legislative functions, there is a confusion between primary sources and secondary sources and regulatory ones, which are considered to be third-party. A decree of the President of the Council of Ministers cannot regulate prerogatives, limit rights and establish sanctions where there is the reserve of law provided for in our Constitution. In our order the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, beyond Article 78 of the Constitution, which established the state of emergency in the event of war, was introduced by Law No 225 of 24 February 1992, which established civil protection. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers should only have an administrative and non-legislative function. After so long, after so many decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, announced in press conferences always made in solitude, with which the Premier "consented" and "allowed" as if it were a faculty kindly granted to the Italian people, you have transformed them into decree-laws and perhaps things have changed a bit, because the decree-law is a form of secondary legislation and must have, as a limit, only the constitutional one. However, make another mistake: in your decrees-laws delegated to the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers the decision-making and the adoption of rules that - also these - provide for legislative intervention. We believe that the management of an emergency such as this cannot be excluded from Parliament's scrutiny, in the sense that Parliament must intervene not only at the ratification stage, but also without being able to include fundamental elements, but also in the debate and the proposition. The decision will then be taken by the majority and the Executive, but in front of the country, before which everyone must assume their responsibilities. On the other hand, the President of the Council prefers to hold symposiums and General States with all categories and leaves out the popular representation, the representatives of the people and the opposition, of which he complains that he does not cooperate. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, time is running fast when we talk about these matters and you are always on time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u40	I listen pleasantly and allow you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u41	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President. Phase 1, phase 2 and phase 3, but we're still at Dear Friend I'll write to you. We are talking about EUR 55 billion in the so-called relaunch decree, where you have made another resounding mistake, as your former Deputy Minister Morando reminded you: you have delegated budgetary powers to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which are intended only for Parliament. We are talking about EUR 55 billion, but when do you pay the 35 billion debts that public administration has to citizens? The postponement of tax deadlines is a joke. You cannot postpone the tax deadlines because you have not worked in the previous three months. If you haven't worked in the previous three months, how do you pay taxes in the next three months? Then there is the subject of the sanatoria of non-EU countries. Who speaks to you is animated by a Christian feeling of solidarity, but can we think of solidarity with non-EU countries when there are 5 million absolute poor in our country that will probably become more after this emergency? Can this be done when there are hundreds of thousands of citizens' income recipients who have not worked one day and who could well be assigned to work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u42	Senator Vitali, I have to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u43	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. Let me just make one point to my good colleague, Mr Parrini, who has given us my best words and said that there has been a fruitful cooperation in the Commission. 11:34 a.m. (VITAL FOLLOWS). Well, Mr President, let us look at the amendments: only those of the Government and the rapporteur have been approved: if that is the spirit of cooperation, everyone will remain in their own positions and assume their responsibilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarielli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u45	Mr President, after two hours of speeches - but I would like to say after a few days of work and, above all, after almost forty days since 16 May last - I believe that the surreal has turned towards the grotesque. I say surreal because it is already surreal to be here today talking about a decree-law launched on May 16 - as has been repeated several times - which ended its functions in fact on June 2. Well, then, where is the grotesque? Wrong first stands us, especially in a serious situation like the one we have lived and that we are still living; but being able to make mistakes even a posteriori is grotesque. [[Applause]] This was precisely the only sense of a measure to be brought into conversion today: to analyze the situation a posteriori and to insert those correctives both for the current phase and - God forbid! - if there's any more need. And yet, again this time, the government and the majority have closed their eyes and have done so on a situation - be careful, it is right that those who are at home know it - in which in the dossier for us parliamentarians, those who should read them, those who should follow everything, the first 10 pages serve to explain what it was: it is a list of 10 pages of decree-laws, DPCM, adopted measures, because it is a forest in which we do not find ourselves either. And fortunately there is no list of task forces, of experts, not to mention statements, because otherwise we would have had an encyclopedia even before we entered into the substance of the measure. And it's not just a matter of form. Don't say there was no time; there was at least time for a clear, open, constructive confrontation with the opposition and also with the majority forces on the part of the Government, because, in the midst of all unnecessary tables, the only useful permanent table you did not want, despite the requests of the President of the Republic, despite our continuing constructive willingness. The problem is that the other list that extends to every measure is that of unsolved problems; the list that extends is that of closed activities, missed opportunities, that of hallucinating statements by government representatives and other subjects. Many have been reported. Let me mention at least one of those past ones: the shame of hearing the President of INPS say that we have covered the Italians with money. We've covered them with debts! [[Applause]] Debits, open accounts, perhaps with the salumier or the grocery store to continue to feed the children, for those who still haven't received that fund for the first month; to the companies that had to go to the bank. And many of those who had the integration fund in time had it just for those entrepreneurs who anticipated it, those entrepreneurs who are accused, to a large extent unjustly, of being potential evaders, and who instead took part of the answers that the government was not able to give. From this endless list, allow me another quote that dates back to last night, when, at "Porta a Porta" (Porta a Porta) Minister Di Maio proposed to suspend the procurement code for three or four years, after we have proposed it several times hearing us say no. [[Applause]] It's a shame! Shame on you! At least be consistent. Well, not even one night and this morning, at 10:30, Delrio says that we are not talking about it because the procurement code worked well and must remain. At least half a day, including the night and maybe you sleep, can you get along and say the same thing within the government? [[Applause]] Can you do it? Half a day! And with regard to the responsibilities, Mr Fattori, fortunately, the Permanent Bicameral Commission has said this: on certain issues, responsibility, also in health, under Article 117 of the Constitution, is of the Government, not of the Regions. You said so, and most of them are. [[Applause.]] Fortunately, then, that the Regions, from North to South, all, who more, who less, did in their own and at the hearing, not at the press conference, the representatives of the Regions came to say that they had to put a piece of them, because nothing worked: civil protection did not work, communication did not work as well as comparison with the Government. Do you know that in one of the DPCMs, Bonaccini, President of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, asked colleagues to speak at around 10 p.m. and by 11 p.m. on a DPCM? Then, in front of the shield lift, they returned to the next day. An hour for a comment on a measure announced in the Commission that it was not there yet! Parente, do you know what a double turn is if you go down the street? It means continuing in the same wrong direction. Even with this measure you are continuing in the same wrong direction. You mentioned Calvin, but I also quote you, and I share it with my colleagues. Calvin said, "Whoever has an eye, find what he seeks even with his eyes closed." You do not even find the right direction with open eyes, with the entire country, parties and associations of category that show you what there is to do, but that you continue not to do in the measures. The extra step you're making us do towards the abyss [[Applause]] , not to the solution, measure after measure. She referred to posterity, which will judge errors: here we do not get to posterity because it skips the country first. The accounts are paying them today, citizens, families and businesses, not posterity. Even in the measure under consideration, from large to small things, going back to the beginning of the intervention, you did not want to find the correctives. You only think about the movements between regions, but the problem of neighbouring municipalities between different regions could be tackled, how was the problem of San Marino addressed rather than the Vatican? Because on the street people do not find geographical boundaries, they find social and economic neighborhoods, which sometimes do not coincide with administrative terms. The green areas: too comfortable to do as with the Manzoni cries and to download to the municipalities the responsibilities to control the green areas, without giving them the tools. This means not dividing the tasks, but downloading the responsibilities, and this applies to the work and the integration fund. We have still public works, which have been stopped for the months of the blockade and are now filming: hallucinating things. In conclusion, everyone has defined the Premier as one man in command: well, I disagree with this. After such a measure, Prime Minister Conte proves once again that he is not a single man, but a sòla man, who is mocking the country without giving answers. [[Applause.]] That act of love that he asked the banks, and that they didn't do, let him do it, make an act of love: go home! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u47	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the conversion of Decree-Law No 33 (Senate Act 1812) under discussion today concerns further urgent measures to deal with the serious - and I stress serious - epidemiological emergency caused by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Although its restrictions and prohibitions merely represent the natural and progressive development of previous measures already adopted which provided for the vigorous and necessary measures to contain the spread of the virus. All the provisions adopted, drawn up and suggested by the Technical Committee, have had their careful political assessment with choices of direction, in the concrete attempt to make them immediately feasible and, above all, understood and shared by the citizens. This is an indispensable condition, in my opinion, without which no measure, even the most obvious and necessary one, can find consequent practical implementation. A conscious and motivated accession of all citizens, despite the obvious rapid decision-making of the emerging phase that we were experiencing, is also the result - and above all, I would say - of correct information, capable of providing the right explanations and reasons for the measures taken to be understood and, consequently, carefully observed. The civic maturity of a people is particularly evident in difficult times, when even the measures that can partially limit the personal freedom of movement and self-determination, but which in any case remain indispensable in order to preserve the fundamental common good represented by the health of all, are respected by personal choice and convinced adhesion and not because they are imposed simply ope ligis and implemented through the control of the bodies in charge. We can never have an overseer in every street or behind all our behavior. All the measures adopted in this and in the other decree-laws related to the pandemic, which may not even be shared in some points, find their origin and their main thread in the need to find the right balance between rapid responses to the health emergency and the economic life of the country, between public health, respect for the life of each of us, potentially at risk at those difficult times, and the individual, physical, psychological, social and economic needs that rightly need to be taken into account. The difficulty is precisely to find the appropriate balance between science, with its knowledge and suggestions on health measures, and politics with its needs for social and economic choices. It was not easy to keep the bar straight, go ahead with closures and travel restrictions that were only foreseen in cases of proven work needs and absolute health urgency. This is especially so when others, thinking differently, openly stated that they would open everything up, said yes to free movement between the regions when the epidemiological conditions still did not allow for any such choice. [[Applause]] Still too premature choices, which would surely have put on their knees, more than really happened, the already difficult health organization of our country, which pays previous decades of wrong programmatic choices and which today are being tried to remedy. We must never forget the painful and moving images of the hundreds of coffins lined up, nor the suffering and anguish of intensive therapies. The measures taken, the lockdown first and the social and security gap then, certainly played a decisive role in effectively combating the spread of the virus; it is demonstrated that the same measures were taken in other countries where the epidemic occurred with a slight temporal deviation. No one can deny that, if today we have arrived at a much quieter epidemiological situation, it is due to the measures that might seem very drastic but that were the only measure that could really and concretely counteract the spread of the Covid-19. Certainly it can be assumed that the virus's penetration and aggressiveness can be mitigated, or that it is supposed to be genetically modified to date, with a consequent shift towards a form with less virulence, i.e. more attenuated. However, we must stress the need not to lower our guard. Nevertheless, in compliance with the measures in place, with the attention and collaboration of all, that incitement felt that united in a single ideal embrace the Italian people, from North to South, during the most critical period of the epidemic, to the motto of: It's going to be all right, it's becoming a happy and shared reality of Italy all over. Despite all the criticisms and remarks that have been made about the various measures adopted, if today we are a country that, despite being hit violently from the health point of view, can have a relative epidemiological tranquility and a concrete drive to restart, perhaps something positive has really been realized. What has been done so far is not always and always to be criticized. [[Applause.]] 11:49 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u48	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u49	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to thank all the senators for their orderly work in the Commissions and to thank Senator Parrini as rapporteur. I'll make some notes. The main criticisms were received in the general discussion, but also in the work of the Commission, mainly on two points: the decree of urgency and Parliament's intervention on the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. On the decree of urgency, I hear myself saying that never as in this moment of emergency has the decree of urgency been necessary and, precisely the fact that many problems have been solved and overcome demonstrates, in contrast to what has been stated, the effectiveness that the decree of urgency has had. As regards the criticism of the participation in the decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, I would like to thank Senator Pagano, who was the Member of the Commission who took on more of this issue than the others, for withdrawing the amendment, so as to deal more appropriately, in a more appropriate parliamentary way, with this issue which concerns all of us Members of Parliament and which we all hope will be brilliantly resolved, because it is right that Members should also have the opportunity to speak on these decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. I would like to make a few comments on the intervention of Senator Fregolent, who encouraged me to monitor the interventions of other States. From a quick glance, the measures, between laws and ordinances, in Germany were exactly 14, as in Italy, in France even 27. [[Applause]] I would also like to make a small point regarding the intervention of Senator Pucciarelli, who I believe is also positive, regarding infrastructure. This government, with Minister De Micheli, as well as the previous one, with Minister Toninelli, is placing a very strong focus on infrastructure. Specifically, for the Pontremolese area, the beauty of EUR 92 million is set aside in the decree, and there are parliamentary amendments which are very likely to be adopted, which allocate another EUR 70 or 72. Moreover, in the intervention of Minister De Micheli, the Pontremolese mentioned by you is part of the Ministry's priority works. [[Applause]] I would like to override the speech by Senator Gasparri, who used the general discussion on this measure to give a liar to Tridico, to members of institutional and professional bodies, because the accusation comes from those who, just last week, accused the presidency of the Senate, this institution and therefore all of us to cheat on the counting of votes, when he himself - I remember - was Vice President of the Senate and knows that we read a monitor that gives us results. I would like to conclude my speech by telling Senator Pucciarelli that, always from a quick check, the only Government that definanced the works on the Pontremolese area was the last Berlusconi-Lega Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u50	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with what was decided during the examination in the referee, the Presidency declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.20 (text 2), 1.21 (text 2), 1.22, 2.0.2, 2.0.3, 2.0.4, 2.0.5, 2.0.6, 2.0.7, 2.0.8, 2.0.9, 2.0.10, 2.0.11, 2.0.12, 2.0.13, 2.0.14, 2.0.15, 2.0.16, 2.0.17, 2.0.18, 2.0.19 and 2.0.21, as they are outside the scope of the decree-law. The Presidency also states that Amendment 2.0.1, which provides for the establishment of a bicameral parliamentary committee, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u53	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, you have declared an amendment of mine inadmissible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've already passed that stage. If you wish, you can explain your amendments. PAGE (FIBP-UDC). I would like to make a brief comment on the inadmissibility of amendment 2.0.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Inadmissibility cannot be contested. If you wish to speak on the amendments to your first signature which have been declared admissible. PAGE (FIBP-UDC). I shall discuss this in the explanation of vote, then.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u54	Very well, thank you, Senator Pagano. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u55	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, with the exception of amendments 1,100, 1,101, 1,102 and 1.0,1000 from the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u56	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u57	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission. I ask the senators in the gallery to confirm that they have voted. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Grassi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.2 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u60	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote, of course, in favour of my Group on this amendment, but also to invite the House to consider it. This amendment is part of the paragraph which regulates internal movements to the Regions and, as has been said in various interventions, to resolve the problem of neighbouring territories. We are in a context in which, with this decree-law, we allow, for example, the citizens of San Marino, who are our cousins, we would miss, but still foreign citizens, to move freely from Ascoli Piceno to Piacenza, while we forbid, instead, a citizen, for example, of Cattolica to go to Gabicce, which are two countries practically attacked; or, to a citizen of Novara to cross the Ticino to visit in the province of Milan. As I said before, the citizen of Cattolica can go to Piacenza, 300 kilometers away, but not in the neighbouring country, in the Marches. The same goes for me, who are from Lombardy: from San Rocco to Porto, border village, overlooking the bridge of Piacenza, we can reach the Valtellina, three hours by car, but we cannot go to Piacenza. This amendment is going to remedy this situation, of course hoping that, in future, it will not be used again, but this is a problem that has been encountered. I also mention the municipalities of the Tuscoemilian ridge and there would be many cases, but I do not want to prolong. The invitation is to go, at least a posteriori, to heal this rule, as is required by many citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u61	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Grassi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (at 12.06 p.m.) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 (text 2) tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We note that Senator Caesaro was unable to vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u64	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to vote against Amendment 1,101, which states that people who have had close contact with people who have had positive results with the virus should be subject to a precautionary quarantine, which may be good, or another measure approved by the Scientific and Technical Committee. Since quarantine or equivalent measure is extremely restrictive of personal freedom, it seems to me to be the least that is applied under the law, not the decision of a technical-scientific committee that has no constitutional or institutional value. Let us be very cautious when it comes to limiting people's freedom, even in an epidemic situation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u65	Yes, even if it could mean decreasing, not in addition. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,101 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.9 is therefore excluded. Amendments 1.10 and 1.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Grassi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.13 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u68	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in asking for the signature to be added to Amendments Nos 1.14 and 1.15, I make a brief explanation of vote on both. I invite colleagues to a minimum of attention, because paragraph 11 of Article 1, which we are talking about, says: "Religious functions with the participation of people are carried out in compliance with the protocols." Now, I would like to ask colleagues if there are religious services without the participation of people: at least the priest will have to be there (without going to trouble the Trinity, which already alone is three). [[Applause]] I would therefore ask whether, in homage to the Italian language and the meaning of the words, we can accept either amendment 1.14, which proposes to delete the expression 'with the participation of persons', or - better still - amendment 1.15, with which we propose the phrase 'with the participation of several persons', which seems to me to make the sense that we wanted to link to the norm. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u69	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). There's a senator connected up there who doesn't want or can't vote. If you don't want to, it's your right. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u72	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to declare the vote in favour of amendment 1,15, which I think is very reasonable, also recalling that, in the face of a measure of absolute common sense, it would not be bad - even if it is not mandatory and it is right that it is not - for the rapporteur or others to explain why they impose an unreasonable rule: perhaps there are hidden reasons that we have not seen, but, for example, to write an amendment so that we can think that there are religious ceremonies without participants is really bizarre. Either you change your mind then, or you have a minimum of consideration, especially for colleagues in the majority, who have to vote on this stuff, explaining at least why, if there is; otherwise, you can also change, neither the government nor the decree-law will fall, since we are at first reading.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u73	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,102 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.18 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cantù and other senators, on which the 5th Commission had requested a rewording. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.19 (text 3) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u76	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have spoken before about the lack of facilities to ensure that students are distanced at the time of the next reopening of schools. Amendment 1.19 (text 3) goes in this direction, by accepting the willingness of representatives of Federalberghi to make available their hotel facilities to implement the necessary distance during the next school reopening, which could be ensured by finding new facilities by schools of all levels and universities. You yourself, among other things, in the last document issued in connection with the reopening of schools, say that it is necessary to encourage the finding of new structures in order to ensure the teaching in presence. Amendment 1.19 (text 3) has a double purpose: on the one hand, to ensure the finding of new spaces in which to implement the teaching in presence; on the other hand, however, since Federalberghi asked for a special agreement with the Ministry, to ensure a refreshment to the hoteliers, who in the period of lockdown and certainly also in the coming months have had and will have a serious negative response for their economy. I therefore hope that the Government will reconsider this measure or that it will propose it again in some further decree, because the proposal of Federalberghi is really interesting. It is regrettable that amendments 1.20 (text 2) and 1.21 (text 2) have been declared even impossible, because they accepted the requests of university students to have a refreshment on rental fees and tuition fees, which will not be satisfied in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u77	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19 (text 3), tabled by Senator Saponara and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.20 (text 2), 1.21 (text 2) and 1.22 are unacceptable. Amendment 1.25 is withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u80	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, speaking in an explanation of vote on Amendment 1,26, I appeal to the majority forces, because the circular of 22 May of the Minister of Health is a bit controversial, there are problems and inconsistencies in the definition of sanitisation and disinfection and on the time of authorisation of products and many aspects risk putting in trouble many productive activities. Voting in favour of this amendment therefore means ensuring that the national guidelines ensure clear foundations and clear scientific evidence. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this amendment, which has no special costs and which can then be used as a basis for a revision of the circular, which could be done in more detail. This is the invitation we make to this House and then, as always, everyone takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u81	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.28 to 1.58 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on agendas G1.28 and G.156.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u82	Mr President, I support the adoption of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u83	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u84	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.28 and G1.56 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, with the exception of the Commission's 2.10 and 2.3 (text 2), first signed by Senator Augussori and then made by the Commission in yesterday's vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u86	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u87	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Grassi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u90	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this amendment, tabled by the Lega Group and welcomed by the Commission, provides that the proceeds from sanctions relating to violations of the rules related to the Covid emergency, established by municipalities, provinces and regions, are to be donated to these local authorities and no longer directly to the state's coffers, as is the case today. This prediction has a double meaning. First of all, it is a gesture of closeness and interest to the local authorities and above all the mayors, who are at the forefront and make available the staff of their municipality (so at their own expense) for the performance of a service useful to the community, and that therefore we try to compensate. The other reason is that this forecast will ensure a higher level of motivation and responsibility on the part of local authorities in ensuring what we all demand, namely greater attention to compliance. Thanking the rapporteur and undersecretary Castaldi for their active cooperation in the successful outcome of the amendment in the Commission, the invitation I make to the members of the majority is to follow the action and behaviour of their colleagues in the first Commission, by approving this amending proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u91	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] The remaining amendments are inadmissible, inadmissible or withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u94	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I should like to point out that I was wrong, mistakenly voting against, rather than in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u95	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u98	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with the conversion of Decree-Law No 33 the so-called phase 2 has been created. I believe that today's debate, in some ways, has not dealt with this issue, but has seen senators and senators... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u99	Colleagues, Senator Grimani cannot intervene in this way, I also say this to his Group's colleagues and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u100	Please, Senator, excuse me on behalf of this House. Grimani (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President, there is no problem. I said that, with the enactment, before, and now with the conversion of the decree-law to the examination, the Government has given rise to the so-called phase 2. Today, this issue has remained partly in the background, because a debate was preferred on evaluations which did not have much relevance to the same measure. It is part of the normality of the democratic debate, but I believe that the controversy about the fact that, for example, the decree-law is passed, has been tantalizing. The Italian legislative system provides for legislative mechanisms that in some cases make the decree of urgency important precisely because it manages to provide regulatory tools in the immediate future. The problem of the pandemic certainly required immediate tools, so it is clear that the conversion takes place weeks later. This measure, in my opinion, has established, alongside the economic initiatives that have taken place in recent weeks, a phase of relaunching our country. The management of the emergency has been characterized in two moments in the past: the first has seen the ordinances of civil protection and the Ministry of Health, pursuant to law n. 833 of 1978; then, as the weeks pass, we have seen that the persistence and pervasiveness of the epidemic have required more restrictive measures, necessarily, of legislative order as they affect the freedom of citizens, especially that of movement. The result is Decree-Law No. 6 and then the one converted into law recently, No. 19, which however is an unavoidable reference also for No. 33, since all possible containment actions, by virtue of a possible outbreak of the epidemic, refer to Decree-Law No. 19 and the instruments provided for in Article 2. This measure introduces an important aspect, namely a renewed relationship with the regions. Much has been debated - and rightly, I would say - about the relationship between the State and the regions and the contrast that the first instruments have determined. This decree-law puts order, providing for a closer relationship between the State and the Regions and allowing them, especially on the topic of economic, productive and social activities, the possibility to define guidelines and protocols to which it refers, while in the previous decrees this possibility of intervention of the Regions was not explicit. This aspect must therefore be welcomed: perhaps it does not make noise, but it is part of a set of relations between the state and the more orderly regions. I believe that the important aspect of this decree-law is that of which the population has been able to benefit in recent weeks: the reopening of intra-regional movements since 18 May and inter-regional movements since 3 June and abroad; the possibility of sharing with public meetings or open to the public, always with the fundamental principle of prohibition of assembly. Paragraph 13 of Article 1, above all - and these are decisive aspects - defines the theme of the reopening of schools: not explicit, because it always refers to the instruments of Decree-Law No 19, but opens to the need to regulate the reopening of educational activities and, more generally, schools, higher education, university, professional courses and so on. At these moments a debate is developing on the reopening of schools and I believe that it is a mission of the whole Parliament to work to create the best conditions for them, which is a path of government ownership, which has clear responsibilities in this regard. It's a lot of talk and there's too much talk, articles, evaluations and assumptions. I think we need to wait for the guidelines. We all believe that the reopening of schools is crucial and that distance learning has been a difficult time to share, but necessary. We all know that the school, as Matteo Renzi said yesterday, is an educational community, so physical relationship and closeness are fundamental. We all want to overcome the difficulties of these weeks. There is the theme of distance, which from an organizational point of view could cause serious problems, because especially the schools of the small centers are often located in the historical centers, and are located in buildings not new, with reduced spaces and it is difficult to multiply the classes. Yes to a convincing and determined reopening, therefore, creating also in the evaluations spaces of freedom and liberality: that the norms are less strict; the safety of the pupils is central; the protection of the girls and the boys is fundamental, but we create the conditions to be able to start again, because too many limitations would preclude a serene restart. The issue of production activities is, I believe, the central aspect of government action from an economic point of view, but also of legal conditions. The fact of giving space to protocols and guidelines of regional character or prerogative of the Conference of the Regions is aimed at determining the conditions for which in the nearest institutions, precisely the Regions, there is the ability to govern the reopening of productive activities. In this regard too, we need a boost, an incentive and a reassurance of those who do business, because clearly there has been a phase of great difficulty, especially for small businesses, the activities of commerce and those who are more in contact with the citizens. So in these weeks an effort of clarity and support must be made. I therefore believe that these are the aspects that have characterized the decree-law in question. In the coming weeks the challenge of restarting will characterize our activity, that of the Government and that of the Parliament. In my opinion, there is no need for appeals, but we must avoid the issue of restarting being a cause for confrontation. There is no doubt that we must do it quickly and better, especially with regard to the economic support measures and the regulatory clarity of the protocols; however, it is not an easy challenge, because often in the debate we forget what happened in the previous three or four months, when we really closed the country not knowing what his destiny would have been in the following weeks. Today there is a glimmer of optimism also supported by the scientific community, although the debate on this is equally highly articulated, but there is a possible push to restart. Let us not dry it, let us not become an element of political and electoral contention; we would be wrong and give a bad image to the country. The decree-law under discussion legally redefines the restart, provides basic legal principles to inspire the action of the Government and Parliament in the following weeks. We support this measure and therefore vote in favour of the Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u103	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, with our colleagues in the Group we were almost tempted to acknowledge an expression of joy for this act, not only because we were able to bring the remaining remaining amendments to the House, but because we were even able to approve one proposed by the opposition, so it was almost spontaneous to ring the bells, cry, laugh or at least celebrate this event in order to give it the necessary weight. Unfortunately, however, we cannot say that it was a lightning to heaven, because instead the sky remains nebulous; it is not an episode that makes the difference, but obviously we would like that for the near future, especially when we should draw the conclusions of this difficult period that has passed through Italy, there is a greater will to listen and to produce outcomes, I do not say widely shared but at least deriving from a listening and serious analysis. Perhaps the examination of this decree-law, which should put all in order a diorama of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, of press conferences, of more or less emphasized statements, could represent the moment when "take the moment" to share at least one different method. For example, in the 12th Commission, we tried to do so, thanks also to the goodwill of President Collina and his colleagues present, giving the favourable opinion with two comments which were then turned into an amendment. Let it be clear, we were talking about "fresh water" in the body of these observations there was nothing that could raise alarm; it was only a first consideration that spoke of the need to reopen the school in presence, because, as has also been said by many colleagues of the majority, the teaching either is in presence or is still an unacceptable, indigestible and useless surrogate. This is therefore an amendment which contained totally acceptable measures. Then there was another that emphasized the necessity, to proceed to the sanitization of the environments with activities recognized by subjects and structures responsible to certify and to guarantee its effectiveness. These are not two political passages, metapolitical or in some way similar to political content. These amendments have been rejected, even when they have been tabled in this House, and here I would urge the representative of the Government to listen to Senator Malan's suggestion: it is not an obligation, but it is not said that we should somehow clarify the reason, especially on absolutely normal and sensible passages, for the contrary opinion. The exchange of views which may then be useful for the continuation of the debate is part of the proper management of the work of this House and I would also like to say to some extent of the decorum of the relations between the majority and the opposition, of a normal dialectic. However, this is; we are therefore forced to record the permanence of a climate of closure and impermeability to every movement of good will. This probably happens because the majority are struggling with a daily difficulty, as Senator Briziarelli recalled just yesterday evening on the procurement code (this morning Minister Di Maio was denied by Mr Delrio). I realize that there is an objective difficulty in keeping the picture together and I also realize that every possibility of mediation in this context is exhausted within the majority, because it is obvious that if you move one millimeter away from that unstable balance that you have managed to find, perhaps with exhausting meetings, then arrived in the Chamber, if you change a comma, it skips everything. But let us realize, ladies and gentlemen, that we are coming to the end of a period and that we will have to take very serious, difficult and important decisions. In essence, the redde rationem has arrived, is close and it is inevitable that we all, with a choral commitment, will have to arrive before Italy and before our fellow citizens with a synthesis of what happened and with a critical analysis even difficult, but that must be as objective as possible. The redde rationem is near, the judgment on the work of the Government, the thousand advices acquired by the Government, the work of Arcuri. We will have to go before the citizens to tell something and it will be necessary to explain the reasons for this continuous confusion, which has been created from the first moment and which has been the cause of so many problems, of so many misunderstandings and of so many failures, of this confusion between the aspect and the decisions of a health nature and the aspect and the decisions of an economic and financial nature. We have crossed paths, in my opinion gravely wrong, with a series of misunderstandings precisely because of the confusion of the objectives - that of a technical and health nature and that of an economic and financial nature - which had to be distinguished. This continuous mix-up and confusion that still persists today leads us to measures that are difficult to understand, which are contradicted within them, which are contrary to previously manifested cornerstones. I am thinking especially of the health section, which I personally do not care about the most but the part that I do most; it is different: I deal with it more. Of course, I am not unaware of the importance of the other half or two thirds of the problem, but I am concerned with the health side because I am in the Health Commission and very often the measures are in breach of taking on health aspects which I consider to have to be acquired. I would like to take a plastic example: the need to go ahead with a screening of what is happening in the population in relation to the epidemic. Now we have read the opinion of ten illustrious virologies, who say that the epidemic is no longer there. But then, there is, there isn't, what's going on? Did the viral load dilute? Are positives subjects that can infect or can no longer infect? We'll have to know all this from here to a few days, not a month, but from here to a few days. To these questions, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to give answers. Faced with the now acclaimed failure of both the Immuni app and the affair of the 150,000 serological tests, we must record that these two operations - right or wrong that they are, I don't want to comment on them now, we will do so in due course - have both failed: neither can give an image, a vision, an answer about what happens with respect to the presence of the virus in our population. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. All this exposes Italy to a very serious risk. Several times I have made this example: it's like going to lighthouses turned off in a moonless night; indifferently, depending on how much luck will kiss us, we could go to bang or we could find ourselves inside a meadow without obstacles and walk peacefully. I fear that relying only on luck is obviously an attitude to be avoided; instead, we should implement that famous agenda, which is a precedent - which I call on the majority to respond copiously in the near future - of sharing between majority and opposition. So tell us how we should be able to figure out what kind of screening we can and you can do from here to a few days and tell us what the virus is in the population. Having said that, it is clear that we will only be able to vote against this measure, in the hope that you will give us a chance, for the future, to vote in favour of something. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u105	I always listen with pleasure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u106	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, it is true that we are yet another conversion into law of a decree-law with urgent measures to deal with the emergency of Covid-19. This is that of the so-called restart, phase 2, that of May 16, 2020, n. 33, which includes a meter away and masks indoors. There are the decree-laws, then the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which have led to the debate on their constitutionality since the beginning of this dramatic emergency: different views. We believe that this choice has basically respected constitutional principles and was imposed by a situation that could get out of hand. There was and there is the health of the citizens at stake. The Commission decided quickly, it is true, but here I would like to remind you that in those dramatic days, when it was decided to keep open the factories that produced essential goods for the country, Palazzo Chigi consulted the social partners, approving protocols to ensure the safety of workers. It was the days of the thousands of people who crowded our hospitals and intensive therapies. These were the days where hundreds of deaths were counted, which in a few weeks, between March and April, filled cemeteries and temporary deposits. It had to be decided quickly. Do we want to forget those days? Look at the fact that "restart" does not mean thinking about the health emergency that we have experienced as a parenthesis; the dramatic effects we will see in the future. I see this attitude of putting aside, of closing the game, also here in politics, where, after the first moment, we think of going back to the times of that 27 February. No, we have a huge responsibility to the country. Now that the acute emergency is over, even if the health emergency is not yet behind us (and it is good to repeat that), we must try to restore that parliamentary confrontation that has been put aside in recent months. It has eased - it is true - the health emergency; now, we must overcome the economic and social emergency. The latest bulletin issued by Civil Protection tells us that the sick have fallen below 20,000 and that the number of new cases and deaths is at least; well, but we would be wrong to send out the message that there is no more danger. Without wishing to hypothesize the risks of second waves after the summer, the Covid-19, today, in the rest of the planet, continues to infect and kill and the facts tell us that we must continue to be cautious. Did you see what happened to the tennis champion, Djokovic, the number one in the world, who had challenged distance and mask? He, no vax, tested positive for coronavirus. So, start again. As a Mixed Group, we have decided in the Commission not to propose amendments. The measures contained in this measure are already out of date and today we must think above all of economic and social restart. We're all worried. It is a fight against time, against bureaucracy, but not only. The signs coming from the territories are dramatic: the growing poverty, the saracinesche that remain lowered, the productive fabric in difficulty, the tourism industry that is experiencing its worst crisis. We are waiting for the simplification decree; we are waiting for the recovery fund, for the negotiation at European level; we are waiting for this new model of development. Attention, though. I say, above all, to my colleagues in the opposition that there is a third way that must remain outside: organised crime. So, speed, but also controls. It's a race against time. The mafias have cash, liquidity, lend money to usury rates, try to recycle dirty money, buying companies in difficulty, and will try public procurement. Make it quick, yes, but ensure the legality checks. The darkness can come back, investigators and magistrates tell us. I understand the discomfort of colleagues and colleagues in the opposition. We too feel the need for a more detailed parliamentary debate, that is, to get into the details of the issues, also in order to ensure legal certainty at a time of serious crisis for the country. We have all hoped for the limited temporary nature of the suspension of personal freedoms. From this point of view, there is a need for some sort of democratic supervision in order not to make the emergency survive the emerging rules. It would be profoundly wrong to draw up a constitutional law on emergency management. Rather, there is the problem that we have faced, for example, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that of a bicameral parliamentary committee which is active in the emerging moments, when the Government issues urgent measures, and that it meets in horas and says its own. I start with the conclusions: we must make it, we must start again, we must reduce social inequalities and give dignity to the last, to the invisible. We have another duty, to give hope and confidence in the future. We owe it to those millions of Italians who are suffering right now, there is no dish at the table, there is the crisis. For this reason I announce the favorable vote of the senators of Liberi and Equals and other senators, like myself, of the Mixed Group on the bill at our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u109	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the general debate and previous explanations of vote. I must say that the first need I feel is to talk about the content of the provision that is to our attention. This requirement, in fact, seemed to me largely ignored in most of the debate we had. There has been talk of everything, often jumping from pole to pole, transforming the discussion itself several times into a recitation to subject, chasting arguments unrelated to Decree-Law No. 33 that even today we are going, at first reading, to convert into law, and not making those reflections that, in my opinion, are instead necessary in the face of a provision of this kind. The decree-law at our examination, approved on May 16 last, intervened on norms that had been deliberated on March 25 (with a previous decree-law, n. 19) and basically marked our entry into phase 2 with a loosening of some limitations. The restrictions for the internal movement to the Regions ceased from 18 May, between the Regions from 3 June and from the same date the end of the prohibition of movement to and from abroad has been arranged; moreover, the prohibition of assembly has been reiterated and the power of the mayors to close public areas has been reiterated if it has been found impossible to guarantee the respect of safety distances. This measure, therefore, provided an extraordinary opportunity to make an assessment of how we found ourselves developing the norms in an unprecedented period in our recent history and also an assessment of the proof of responsibility and civicism that very large part of the Italian population has given in the face of such heavy limitations. I am sorry that so far this reflection, except in a few speeches, has not taken place. I must say that I have also found little memory in so many words that above all the oppositions have pronounced, even abandoning themselves to facecies and corbellerie that I would leave out of such serious discussions and jokes that did not make anyone laugh (I also saw that those who said them were in difficulty laughing at their own joke and later, maybe, I will give some details about it). Today we are in a situation that is described by the data that were released yesterday: on June 23 there were 122 new infections and 18 deaths. This means that we are no longer in the acute phase of the emergency, meaning that the epidemiological risk is being reduced, beyond the conflicting opinions of the personalities who are being asked about it. But I don't think it's our right to forget that we come from a situation in which, at the end of March, so not later than three months ago, there were 30,000 people in the Covid wards (and they grew by 500 a day), there were 4,000 people in intensive care (and they grew by 50 a day), the deaths grew by several hundred every day and the new infections at that stage, the one in which Decree No 19 was issued, grew by almost 2,000 units a day. We have come from a situation of this kind and we have had to take measures to reduce the risk of such a situation. Were our acts dark then? I do not think they were obscure; it was certainly a difficult decision-making process, taken in a complex situation, and it was articulated precisely because the situation to be faced was complex. Have our measures been born old already? I don't think so. I believe that the debate on how to legislate in an emergency is very topical. Was it too much? I don't think so. We have responded to the needs that were there and undersecretary Castaldi very appropriately recalled the number of measures that have been taken in other countries. Have we had attitudes, as has been said, from the beginning of the class? I don't think so, because I think that in circumstances that do not have equals and have no precedent in the history of a country, such as those that we have lived, we must not at all assume attitudes from the first of the class, but we must show much humility, because in situations like this we can all make mistakes. I believe that Parliament's debate also serves to calmly focus on certain limitations that may have been there and to work together so that, if an emergency situation occurs again, the mistakes are less and the gaps that have become apparent may not be there on a forthcoming occasion. I do not think it is right then, as has been said, to talk about the discharge of responsibilities on regions and local authorities: there has been no such discharge. We tried in very difficult circumstances to cooperate as much as possible and when it seemed to us that someone went objectively out of seed - with decisions that I would not claim, as Senator Pepe did in the general discussion - we intervened, but the intervention was an extreme ratio, because it really was going against the basic indications of common sense. Have we - as Senator Fregolent said - cast Italy? We do not accept this criticism; we have taken the measures that were needed to safeguard the health of the citizens, we have not cast anyone at all. We protected Italy at a time when no one had the recipe for exactly what had to be done to face a completely new risk. Nor is it true - and I would like to comment on a further criticism that came out in the debate - that we were the ones who decided to flee from the parliamentary debate. The parliamentary confrontation was in the possible forms during an emergency and I believe it was a confrontation full of useful indications for the Government in view of the adoption of subsequent acts. I also think that the debate we had in the Commission has shown sufficiently that there has been no violation of our Constitution. As one of the audit jurists said, the Constitution is safe and saves us; it has proved this: it is safe, because no act has gone against the Constitution and saves us because it has proved to be an act sufficiently flexible to be a guide to us even in emergency conditions. Another thing is to say that we need to reflect on any further strengthening of the parliamentaryisation of the debate. We are open to this debate, we have said so in the Commission and Mr Ruotolo has mentioned it by intervening now in the Chamber. I believe that we will soon see the development of this debate, including through the presentation of an ordinary draft law, and we will not shy away from serious, orderly and effective reflection on how, compatible with the need to decide in emerging ways in emerging situations, we can make Parliament even more protagonist than it has been in this situation. I conclude by saying that we have the great opportunity of the decree relaunching to discuss measures aimed at strengthening initiatives to have an economic recovery in our country. We all know that there are whole sectors bent by the Covid-19 emergency, that the difficulties are huge, that the stimuli and impulses to be guaranteed to our production system must be powerful. I believe that this debate cannot be put into a debate, almost arbitrarily and without proper development, which deals with a completely different subject, such as what we had to do today (it was intended to talk about liquidity, about cash integration, about measures for school). It is not a debate that frightens us, I believe that we must also talk about limits and errors, if there have been any, but what is not necessary is to falsify reality. If in fact there is someone who has not had the integration fund and there is a discussion about numbers, we feel deeply touched by the difficulty that people who have not had money live. However, it cannot be forgotten that millions of people have had support and that more than 4 million citizens have received the INPS contribution of EUR 600. It cannot be forgotten that millions have had access to the moratorium on loans. We must not forget that we have also made changes to the measure on liquidity, as we have shown to the House, to extend the repayment time and to make it more effective. Already today there are 700,000 companies that have received the loan of €36 billion of guaranteed funding. Isn't that enough? We also believe that it is not enough, but to say that nothing has been done, it means having no respect for the truth, having little for themselves and almost no one for their role. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance for my too long speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u110	Not by much, half an extra minute, so perfectly permissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u113	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State representing the Government, we are not so many honest people in this debate. It's not nice to see the Senate Chamber so stripped of senators. It's obvious that we have to discuss the decree-law on our examination... [[Comments]] Of course, the government, of course. I was reminded by my colleague that the government only sees the presence of Undersecretary Castaldi, whom I thank for being here anyway. I wanted to say that we arrive at Decree-Law No. 33, 16 May 2020, after having dealt with other decree-laws, that is, Decree-Law No. 6 of 23 February and No. 19 of 25 March, and I must say that compared to the two previous experiences there has been a sort of improvement, as to say that the Government perhaps realized the excess and abuse of other instruments, such as the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, and in this case it has tried to make a bit of order with respect to the disorder and substantially also with respect to the measures that touched on the unconstitutionality or even were clearly unconstitutional, as in the case of Decree-Law No. 6 of 23 February 2020. It must be acknowledged, however, that the health emergency situation experienced by our country was such that it was really difficult to try to do things according to an order and a logic that could take a little more account of Parliament. I'm gonna get to that now, too. In Decree-Law No. 33, as the colleague of the Parrini Democratic Party mentioned earlier, there is talk of containment measures, sanctions and controls relating to the so-called phase 2. Well, it seems to talk almost about prehistory, because, considering everything that happened in this country between March and today, it really seems like a long time has passed. But, in reality, this decree-law is still very confusing; other Members have said this before me, even in general discussion, such as Mr Vitali, who spoke clearly and clearly about the incredible confusion that has been generated mainly by the hyperactivity of the President of the Council of Ministers and by a government that has basically tried to keep up with him, but which has not contributed so much to order. Think that, only between 2 May and 22 June, more than 26 Covid-19 measures were taken. But the incredible thing is that as many as 13 decree-laws issued by the Government in this period need - it is now known also to Openpolis, who has published it - more than 165 implementing decrees, involving 17 Ministries. These are incredible data, from which it is clear that these interventions do not generate clarity, but an incredible confusion that then affects Italian citizens, in particular those who more than others have suffered the consequences of this health and economic emergency. All the controversies related not only to the functioning of schools but also and above all to what has happened for so-called VAT consignments or for employees placed in cash-integration by way of derogation - which still to a large extent have not been provided by the State - show that it is clear that many things have not worked. It would then have been right and logical for there to be more coherence, more organization and greater involvement of the oppositions, who have done everything they can to make their contribution, but who have basically been relegated to a corner. Think that from 2 May onwards, between decrees-laws, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, regional decrees and union ordinances, over 40,000 measures have been enacted. [[Applause]] This is the demonstration that obviously there has not been the ability and the possibility to sum up and generate an organization, especially between the State, the Government, the oppositions, the Regions and the local authorities. There was a confusion of roles. This has emerged - you will have to admit, Mr Parini - also from the hearings of the many constitutionalists and administrativeists we have heard in the Commission, who, despite the diversity of their opinions, have all shared the idea that something has not worked with regard to sanctions, the relationship between the state and the regions, the relationship between the state and the local authorities and the relationship between the executive power and the legislative power, that is, between the government and the two branches of Parliament. It is precisely on this point that I would like to take up something that I care about and which should necessarily be close to the heart of every Member of Parliament, but who is a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is naturally more sensitive than others. Unfortunately, Parliament's role in this emergency has been reduced too much; it is not enough to inform the President of the Council or even his delegate, in advance - but in fact only later - in Parliament. In order to deal with this situation of serious deficiency and also of damage to Parliament's constitutional prerogatives, I thought, in agreement with my colleagues in the Forza Italia Group, of tabling an amendment to this measure which would introduce the creation of a bicameral Commission - to which Mr Parrini also referred, and I sincerely thank him for that - that it should take into account essentially the need for Parliament to deal in advance with the initiatives and emergency measures of the Government and the President of the Council of Ministers, rather than intervening on things that have been done, perhaps after the press conferences held by the President of the Council of Ministers himself. There is therefore a need to give back a role to Parliament. The Presidency of the Commission and the Presidency of the Senate considered it inadmissible, because the establishment of a bicameral commission requires a bill. I would therefore like to announce to my colleagues in this House and also to those who are listening to us from home or from the offices that the bill has been deposited. The proposal for convergence, negotiation and discussion by the Leader of the Democratic Party in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is welcomed by me, of course, with great care and benevolence. It is clear that we need to give back dignity, decorum and prestige to Parliament, and for this very reason we must also use the suggestions of some of our colleagues in the majority to ensure that not only during the Covid-19 emergency, but also for any subsequent and future emergencies not only of a health nature, can all of this be met. Colleagues, as things have been done and for the succession of government and legislative measures, the Forza Italia Group can only vote against this measure. [[Applause]] However, I would remind those who are listening to us from the majority that the desire to restore dignity and prestige to this branch of Parliament will be called into question in the near future and we hope that the contribution of the bill, which proposes the establishment of a bicameral Commission, will be accepted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u116	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the feeling that we have in voting on this measure can be summed up in the well-known dejà-vu formula. We have entered from a week into phase 3 of the management of the health emergency and the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers regulates the life of all Italians from 15 June to 14 July. Today we are about to vote on a measure that said provisions relating to free movement, within the Region from 18 May and between different regions from 2 June. I would say that the measure under consideration, as well as anachronistic, is also déjà-vu. The vote that we are called to express is not so much a vote on the reopening dates, and that at our examination is not so much a technical measure, as it appears to be, but it is actually a blank delegation to the Government for future interventions. Practically every paragraph of the measure in question refers to other decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, with which new restrictions can be established on personal freedom, movement, freedom of assembly, freedom of association and freedom of worship. On other occasions we have already expressed our disagreement with the use of the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, in order to contain and limit constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. Once again, we are faced - here is the déjà-vu - with a blank delegation, in order to authorize the President of the Council to do things and take initiatives that we have already contested. [[Applause]] Colleagues, the vote we are about to vote against is not just a vote against the measure, which - let's face it - is little compared to what we have seen, but it is a vote against a political attitude which is disrespectful of Parliament. [[Applause]] The truth is that behind all this there is at least an attitude of indifference towards this institution, of which we are part today. I am used to giving the benefit of the doubt and so at the beginning I thought that behind this flood of measures, often unclear - I remember, just to make an example known to the general public, the misunderstanding reference to the relatives - there was disorientation, that is, an attitude so gravely guilty, but not consciously pursued. In these days we have witnessed the development of those who, pompously, have been called General States behind closed doors, for - they have said - a useful comparison to the collection of information necessary to revive the Country. However, we are well aware that the place of these comparisons already exists and is highly democratic: it is this place, which has been deprived of the opportunity to speak with the experts, to discuss and to discuss. [[Applause]] This is not good, it is not good at all because the President-in-Office of the Council clearly shows that he does not know the meaning of parliamentary dialectics. In some ways, we are not surprised. Our vote, therefore, is against not only a measure, but also a political approach and a mentality that I consider strongly anti-democratic and against which we oppose with all our strength. [[Applause]] The lack of knowledge of democracy on the part of the centre-right is, at this moment, widely denied because we are here to defend debate and confrontation. The confrontation is democracy, we must not forget it. We are faced with measures that are the expression of those who think they are avoiding this confrontation. For all these reasons (as you can see, I am also very brief because I believe that the synthesis, at this moment, is important also to give a signal to those who, instead, the synthesis does not know), I declare the contrary vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u119	CORBETTA (M5S). Mr President, the measure we are about to vote on contains rules that have marked a turning point in the management of the Covid-19 emergency, leading to the transition from phase 1 to phase 2. At phase 2, which was the beginning of the restart for our country, we arrived after months of strenuous lockdown, characterized by economic sacrifices, limitations of personal freedom, renounces in the private sphere of affections and hardships of various kinds, to which the Italian people responded with a great civic sense and responsibility. It is true, Mr President, that Italians always give the best of themselves when they are put to the test, as has been the case in recent times. This is an element that I want to emphasize because without the collective efforts and behaviors of our people, this decree-law of restart would have seen the light much further in time and, however, would have had different contents. This text is part of the series of urgent legislative measures which followed following the announcement of the state of emergency announced at the end of January. A number of administrative acts of state, regional and municipal origin have been added to these legislative measures and it is important to stress that, in terms of the formal structure of the sources, all constitutional principles have been fully respected. The most distinguishing feature of this measure is the loss of self-certification, which is at the same time the end of restrictions on personal travel. This aim is restored with different timings depending on whether the circulation interests the regional, interregional or foreign territory, but keeping still the bans for the subjects in quarantine. Another important aspect concerns the functions assigned to the regions. Before this measure, the role of the Regions was limited to the introduction of measures of further restriction against worsening of the epidemiological conditions of the individual territories. We did not go any further, so much so that different decision-making powers were foreclosed in the economic sphere. The decree-law in question marks an evolution, allowing a regional regulatory impact on economic, productive and social activities. The response to the epidemiological emergency thus shows a progressive increase in the interaction between government and parliament and between central state and regions. The content of the decree-law, despite its clarity, was not well understood by some political forces, who interpreted it as a free decree all. Just think of the event of 2 June in Rome, organized by Lega, Fratelli d'Italia and Forza Italia. I have here, President, a few newspaper articles: June 2nd, Meloni: "Tomorrow event in safety, to give voice to Italy that does not give up" And luckily, he was safe, since the next day we read: June 2, crowd and assembly: in Rome the manifestation of the center-right becomes a procession without rules. And again: June 2nd, center-right in the square without rules: jumping the distances, the flash mob degenerates in ressa. June 2, at the parade of the center-right, health regulations are missing: exposed in proxy. [[Applause]] The right gave rise to a manifestation without rules, with assemblies, total absence of social space and masks raised and lowered to need, for group photos and various selfies. [[Applause.]] [[Comments.]] Salvini, Meloni and Tajani have revealed their menephregist face, showing themselves disinterested in the common good, totally irresponsible and indifferent to the sacrifices of the Italians who respect the rules. Everything is needed by our country except for a new wave of infection in the fall. [[Brusio.]] May I continue, ma'am? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let the colleague speak, please. Finish it, Senator. CORBETTA (M5S). I was saying, everything serves our country except a new wave of contagions in the autumn, resulting in further lockdown with catastrophic effects for our social and economic fabric. That is why we must bear in mind the image of the hospital wards, the calls for the prudence of the health care staff and the many victims of a virus that, even today - I stress - causes deaths, albeit in fewer numbers than in previous months. Each of us sitting in this House has great responsibilities and, at this very difficult time in our history, the Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stelle Senato is there and strongly supports this Government, which is doing everything to revive the country and give the Italians new perspectives for the future. [[Applause]] I therefore declare the vote of the Movimento 5 Stars, which will undoubtedly be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u120	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 33 of 16 May 2020 laying down further urgent measures to deal with the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, I suspend the session until 4.30 p.m. At 3 p.m., the Conference of Leaders is convened. (The sitting was suspended at 13.41 a.m. and resumed at 16.33 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u121	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is with a spirit of deep emotion that I wish to express the closeness of myself and the entire Senate of the Republic to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Alfredo Biondi, who died tonight in his Genoa. Attorney of talent and brilliant intelligence, Alfredo Biondi was one of the main protagonists of some of the most complex and delicate phases of our republican history. For the first time elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1969, he was Vice President for four legislatures, obtaining the esteem and appreciation of all political forces for the correctness and authority with which he has always directed the work. In the course of a long experience at the service of the State and citizens, Alfredo Biondi was three times Minister: for the coordination of Community policies, for ecology and justice. On every occasion he was able to give evidence of great competence, rigour, sense of responsibility and respect for the institutions. His was an authentic, sincere, profound political passion, constantly nourished by an unshakable faith in the liberal idea. A coherence of values and principles that I have always looked to with great admiration, especially during the many political battles fought together here in the Senate in the 15th legislature. Let me also remind you with affection of its uncommon capacity to relieve some of the moments of greater political tension, using that innate Tuscan sympathy that was its trademark. With Alfredo Biondi he leaves us a gallant man of great charisma and determination, one of the last witnesses of a policy always lived with autonomy of thought, in defense of citizens and their freedom. In remembrance of Senator Alfredo Biondi, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u124	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, your words have been so full of political, institutional and even human significance that I am merely making a public act of sharing. I had the honour and also the good fortune to meet Alfredo Biondi in a special way when he was my Vice President of the Chamber from 2001 to 2006. I have seen, as you said, his human qualities, his ability to speak a language of humanity as deep and convinced liberal as he has always been, first in his historical militancy within the Italian Liberal Party and then in his experience within the party of Forza Italia. But to say that Alfredo Biondi was a partisan man would be reductive, because being a partisan man knew how to be a man of all, in his being a man of institutions. He has never cultivated the feeling of revenge and enmity even towards his political opponents, and indeed, as you said, he has always been able to undramatize the most acute situations in order to find points of convergence even where it seemed impossible to find them. I would also like to say that Alfredo Biondi was not just a Member of Parliament, Minister, Vice President of the House. Alfredo Biondi was also a great lawyer and with his toga he showed in all the Italian courts that he was really a great professional, one of the most esteemed by all for his professional ability. He was a gentleman, as you said, and that is why I hope that the institutions in the future will honor him and remember him as he deserves. Before finishing, I would like to remind you that a few minutes before the session I was reached by a phone call from President Emeritus Napolitano who, as you know, belongs to the Group for the Autonomies, who specifically asked me to convey to the family the deepest feeling of condolence also on his part, who has always esteemed him, who has cultivated with Alfredo a deep friendship and that at this moment is very regretted for him. Thank you, Alfredo, for what you did. I think yours was a nice page of professional history and politics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u125	Thanks also to President Napolitano for this memory.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u128	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you for your words to remind us of Alfredo Biondi. Like President Casini and President Calderoli, some of us were lucky enough to work in Parliament with Alfredo Biondi. I would like to recall one aspect of your love for Parliament. Alfredo Biondi was Vice President, so obviously he presided over sessions, both on important occasions, and on routine occasions, in general discussions, in those moments when speeches are taking place that, those who do think they are fundamental, but often do not receive much attention. In the past years, then, there was less connectivity, less television, less social, so some speeches really remained in parliamentary acts. Alfredo Biondi, when he presided over the Assembly also on those occasions, was generous of advice and observations towards the new parliamentarians; this surprised me, because he listened, observed, gave an advice of experience. Of course, as President Casini mentioned, Alfredo was also a great lawyer, so a man capable of interpreting dialectic in a strong, effective and even pungent way, as he was politically Genoese but from Pisa: even in this meeting of cities with a rich history, he synthesized idioms, ways of knowing how to hold the scene and of facing judicial events in the forum with great interest. In politics - it has already been said - he was Minister, leader of the liberal world, among the founders of Forza Italia, a party in which he fought for a long time and for which he also faced delicate battles. Today, President Berlusconi, remembering him with affection, recalled the important functions of government that he carried out next to him. Alfredo Biondi tried, even in a tumultuous moment, when perhaps it was impossible to do so (who knows when that moment will come), to address the issues of justice. There were measures, polemics, events that are in the annals of politics. The transparency of Alfredo Biondi's behavior has never caused personal attacks on him, but for the issues dealt with the controversy were very strong. However, many years later, especially with regard to the 1994 affair of that Government, the unresolved issues of justice, the relationship between justice and politics, the autonomy of politics and the autonomy of the judiciary remain - and God knows how much - at the heart of the debate, if possible even more involuted, even worse. Alfredo Biondi also had the merit of trying, as Minister, to face that knot. We were in a phase of great change in the political life of the country, so the issue became difficult. Alfredo tried, as a jurist and as a truly super partes man, to point out some issues, which are still on our agenda. I also wanted to mention this aspect, not only to personal remembrance, which is strong and alive. The wit: Alfredo Biondi was able, even in the field of sport, to go on television and, as a fan, to interpret the events of the day; he was therefore a living, active man, able to defend a liberal culture, to dialogue with everyone, to listen to and advise the young parliamentarians who stood on the scene and reserve them a teaching and advice. He was also brave in facing those knots of justice that are still very tangled. We hope one day to dedicate some good reform of Italian justice to his memory. Thanks to Alfredo Biondi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u131	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wants to join in mourning the death of Senator Biondi, who has left a teaching which, I repeat, surely we should preserve and preserve, at least because he has been able, in very difficult times, to bring some teachings, which - I repeat - we should still care very much about and try to defend. Senator Biondi, as has already been said, great lawyer, great politician, has held many positions, including Vice President of the House several times and Minister of Justice. He was indeed a guarantor, a genuine guarantor, in a completely straightforward and very strict manner. These issues, even though it has been a long time, are still absolutely alive. No one can forget the battle, which has not yet been resolved, on the abuse of preventive imprisonment. Bringing us back to that period and contextualizing the battle at that time, in which we really breathed an extremely heavy climate towards politics, he really was an admirable and commendable person, because he had the courage, among the first, to say that all too often he abused preventive imprisonment and that, above all, he was used as a means of seeking proof. It is what any man of law must have at heart, always having to pursue those ideas, because unfortunately those events have repeated themselves in many other circumstances and that battle is still unresolved. He was an example of a genuine guarantor, of a depositary of the principles of legal civilization, of which many speak but, unfortunately, perhaps few apply or too many do not apply. It is right, therefore, to remember today a figure of that standing and it is right that we all reflect on the battles that he fought and that, even today, are objectively battles absolutely current. Therefore, Italy Viva is still associated with the manifestations of mourning towards her family but also with all those who have known him, who have been lucky enough to know him and I think they keep his memory of a man absolutely probo, honest and, above all, depositary of those values that are all too often mortified today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u134	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I am happy to be here today in order to remember Alfredo Biondi. The last time we spoke was for her 90th birthday. I called him. I already knew that health problems had already, in some way, affected him. There were problems of sight, difficulty moving from home, but the voice was that Alfredo Biondi always had: the voice of a boy, the voice of a man who looked at life with positivity. I remember, precisely, that to these wishes he responded with his spirited and really witty jokes, that they were a characteristic of his whole life and that he never gave up on doing. It is an image of him, already old, a political man who had passed a very important piece of the history of our Republic, but who, at the same time, was able to maintain a young and open spirit to young people. I still remember a television show, one of those rather special formats for which there are young people sitting on the ground and politicians being interviewed. He and I were there, and we were on different fronts. I was closer to those young people by age, but in answering the questions I felt, in the freshness of his answers, that the years did not count, because his interest in life, for young people and in explaining things, made him extremely young. I felt him younger than I did. He never missed a joke. I also remember that he was Vice President of the House for four legislatures, so a Vice President with great experience. When he presided, he did so with extreme competence, extreme authority, with the capacity to hold the House, which is an important competence for those who have to manage that role. If there was an opportunity for a joke, it never lost it, but not a sarcastic joke, they were never jokes that could offend those who listened to them. They were jokes that led to a smile and a benevolent look and it is not easy because often, instead, those who love the joke, maybe for love of joke, also makes them by scarring the interlocutor a bit, to have more success and arouse a greater laughter. In addition to his political life, I would like to recall the man who has always had an open and positive look on others. He has always been liberal and at the end of his political journey, after having passed into Forza Italia, he returned to the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party was Secretary, Parliamentary, Minister. He was Minister Alfredo Biondi several times: he was Minister for Community policies, for the environment and then Minister for Justice in the first Berlusconi Government. But precisely for this reason he was liberal I was not surprised when, in the end, he returned to that formation that he always felt his own, because really the liberal being was this man's habitus; in a sense, even before politics, it was his way of conceiving the world and life, so he embodied his belonging to that political force and that culture really also with his way of life. He was a great lawyer. He was born in Pisa, as you know, but I got to know him well because he lived in Genoa, which really became his city. He never lost his Tuscan accent, but Genoa became the city he had in his heart. He was addressed to all those who needed special and thorough readings of the issues he knew. He was a great lawyer and a great man of culture, not only of legal culture - deeply guaranteed - but of culture tout court. It was very pleasant to dine with him and to be able to talk about theatre, literature or the events of Italian politics. I would also like to recall his bitterness at a difficult time when, as Minister of Justice, he presented the decree limiting preventive imprisonment. There was a strong clash, as we all remember, since those were the years of clean hands, and there was a firm stand from the then pool of clean hands. He then withdrew that decree, but somehow he was accused of some kind of à la carte guarantee, due to the times, which was not right to blame him. Alfredo Biondi has always been a guarantor and always fought to maintain legal civilization even towards the prisoners. The contingency had somehow nailed him at that time in a very strong political battle but I remember his bitterness and also how he felt a little 'unfair the fact that a label was tied to him, as if his choices were linked to the contingency and not to deep convictions he had always had. Also on that occasion, as Minister of Justice, he had not given up a joke, which had cost him. In fact, at some point, in the clash with Borrelli, the head of the pool of clean hands, had escaped to say that when he was young, the father said to him: "Study, study, otherwise become a prosecutor." Probably Borrelli did not know Biondi and therefore took it as a sort of offense, on the part of those who were then Minister of Justice, against a confrontation that however was at that time even with those who were managing those investigations. At that point there was the resignation, then there was the solidarity of his majority and he returned in office, but if I could then talk to Borrelli I would have told him that there was no will to scare off the figure of the prosecutor or to sharpen a political clash, but it was the love for the joke to which Biondi never could give up. We will all remember him, having for him a sincere thanks for how he served the institutions and how he knew how to be in the human institutions certainly biased, but always open to dialogue and confrontation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u137	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, we associate ourselves as Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stars with the mourning for the loss of Alfredo Biondi, first of all a great lawyer, as everyone remembers, an experienced politician and of great culture, a liberal culture that we often feel nostalgia for today in the face of authoritarian or demagogic regurgitations that Italy does not need. Alfredo Biondi embodied it to the end, returning to the ranks of the liberal tradition, a tradition that, I repeat, gave lustre to this country. I met Alfredo Biondi first as a journalist. He was also remembered as a person of great spirit, with whom one could speak, that to that liberal tradition he gave lustre as a parliamentarians, as a deputy and as Minister: a tradition from which he was detached - as it was remembered - to adhere to the project of Forza Italia, experience during which he became Minister, unfortunately binding his name to that famous decree passed to history as the "salvaladors," which for a few hours and a few days in Italy seemed to open the doors, in the most critical moments of Tangentopoli, to politicians who had been stained with great responsibility. Alfredo Biondi withdrew that measure and the crisis returned. I remember there was a great popular protest. I believe that today, overall, Alfredo Biondi can be remembered a political experience that recalls above all those liberal values that unfortunately have been lost track of and I am sure that with his contribution they could have recited a still important role in a critical situation of political debate such as what we are going through. I remember it with great pleasure and in the name of the Movimento 5 Stars we associate ourselves with the mourning and pain of the family. I believe that Biondi deserves the respect of the whole Parliament, because he is a figure who has left, as well as a deep political trace, also the trace of a style that - alas - is lost more and more. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u138	The Conference of Leaders has established that next week will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The Group Leaders also agreed that on Tuesday 14 July, at 10 a.m., the call will take place for the ballot, by secret ballot, for the election of two members of the College of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications. On the same day on Tuesday 14 July, the Permanent Commissions will be convened for their renewal at the following times: Commissions 1a to 7a to 1 p.m.; Commissions from 8th to 14th at 3 p.m. To this end, the Groups will have to send the nominations of the members to the Commissions by 5 p.m. on Friday 10 July. The Conference of Leaders will meet next week to define the timetable for the Assembly's work for the following weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u139	The next item is the resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution raised by the court of Verona. By appeal lodged on 18 November 2019, the judge for the preliminary hearing of the ordinary court of Verona raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State vis-à-vis the Senate of the Republic in relation to the resolution by which the Shareholders' Meeting, at its meeting on 9 January 2019, declared the indisputability, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, of the opinions given by Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco, senator at the time of the facts, in the context of a criminal proceeding pending before the same ordinary court of Verona. The application was declared admissible by the Constitutional Court by order of 24 March 2020 No 69, filed at the Registry on 10 April. This order was notified to the Senate on 1 June 2020. At its meeting on 11 June 2020, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities issued a majority opinion in favour of the constitution of the Senate before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the above-mentioned conflict of powers. One speaker per group may speak on the conclusions of the Junta for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u142	(17.02) CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is a very rapid matter. [[Senator Gasparri points out that he wants to intervene.]] I thought President Gasparri's report was before. I see President Gasparri is asking for the floor. Maybe he has to do the relationship first?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u143	If President Gasparri so requests, I believe that he can explain the conclusion of what has taken place in Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u144	Mr President, President Alberti Casellati has already summarized the issues, but it seems to me right that I should explain the matter to the Senate as President of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. On 3 June 2020, the President of the Senate referred to the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, pursuant to Article 34 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the question, already described earlier, of the constitution of the Senate in the judgment for the conflict of attribution promoted by the judge for the preliminary hearing of the ordinary court of Verona. On 21 July 2017, the prosecutor requested the referral of the senator Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco, together with Mr Gaetano Zoccatelli, to the Court of Justice in respect of the offences referred to in Articles 416, first paragraph, 318 and 321 of the Criminal Code. In summary, according to the accusation, the then Senator Bonfrisco would have accepted the payment of a stay in Costa Smeralda for you and other persons, the assumption at your request of a person at the company E-Global Service, as well as the payment, on behalf of Mr Davide Bendinelli, of a transfer of 4,000 euros in May 2015. All this against the promotion, by the senator, of the partnership represented by the CEV and the company Global Power SpA and E-Global Service SpA, at whose peak there was precisely the mentioned Gaetano Zoccatelli. This association, according to the accusation, was aimed at ensuring that the tenders launched by the CEV were automatically awarded to the company of this Zoccatelli. The support of the Senator, according to the accusatory system, would have been realized in particular through the presentation of an amendment aimed at allowing the CEV to be included among the 35 aggregate subjects at national level, and then with a concrete interest, by the Senator, about the process of this amendment. The matter sparked a wide-ranging discussion in the Senate. The Junta, starting from the principles enunciated by the Constitutional Court in judgment n. 188 of 2010, carried out a union of non implausibility limited to the motivational profile of the judicial acts transmitted, considering completely implausible the first of the accusations, that of having received a free vacation in consideration of a parliamentary activity, waiting for the non-susistence of the arson and voluntaristic element by the senator, considering that, in an interception produced by the prosecution, the senator tried in all ways - if discussed also in the Chamber - to pay this stay and the owner did not allow the payment. The Junta has found that the corruption presupposes the dole and that, in the case at hand, the dole was excluded ictu oculi in the light of the aforementioned interception. There can be no contra-voluntatem corruption, assuming corruption is an arsonist intent to profit improperly. The case assumed by the prosecution made the senator's parliamentary activity, and in particular made an amendment submitted by the senator, a consultative one, according to the approach of the judicial authority. But the Junta has found that the accusation of corruption was unfounded for the lack of the dole; consequently on the whole a justification of the magistrate's union on a parliamentary act, in particular on an amendment, failed. If, in the face of an accusation of manifestly unfounded corruption, the judicial authority were allowed to review an amendment tabled by a Member of Parliament, the prerogative referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution would in fact be nullified, thus allowing the judicial authority to examine and evaluate parliamentary acts, entering into a sphere totally reserved for the autonomy of Parliament and of parliamentarians. This was discussed. The Junta considered that, without a non-implausible accusation of corruption, the parliamentarians could not be called to respond for the opinions given and the votes expressed in the performance of his duties, constituting the indisputability under Article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution a fundamental postulate of the legal order, in this case being a typically parliamentary act, an amendment, on whose nature of intramoenia obviously no doubts arose. The Council discussed this, proposing the application of Article 68. On 9 January 2019 the Assembly approved the conclusions of the Junta. However, the judge for the preliminary hearing - as has been mentioned - raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State before the Constitutional Court. It must be borne in mind that the advancing authority has pointed out to the state, contrary to what is apparent from the report of the Junta, that it does not show the slope before the Constitutional Court of any conflict of attribution raised by the Senate in relation to the case here. It should be noted that this argument is completely irrelevant for the purposes of the current debate on the conflict raised by the judicial authority, given that this previous circumstance is not likely to affect in any way, even indirectly, the new situation which led to this dispute before the Consulta. However, despite this irrelevance, for the sake of completeness, it is stated that the Junta, in the aforementioned report, had considered it useful to recall that the same affair had been examined by the Junta itself, during the XVII legislature, on two other occasions. The Council has re-discussed this matter and therefore considers that the Senate has acted in compliance with current rules and constitutional principles. Therefore, in the light of the reconstruction of these facts, of the deliberations of the Junta, of the vote expressed by the Assembly and of the conflict of attribution resulting from it between the powers of the State before the Constitutional Court, the Junta, which re-discussed the matter, by a majority gave me, as rapporteur and President, a mandate to report to the Assembly, expressing a favourable opinion on the constitution of the Senate in the conflict of attribution in question, which relates precisely to amendments and decisions which are typically of parliamentary activity. The Constitutional Court will make the assessments it will consider, but I believe that the Senate, even in line with the votes it had expressed on the specific act, should form part of the judgment and that is what we are asking the House to do on this occasion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u147	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr Gasparri's extensive introductory report, I believe, has been taken away from a long speech. I would just like to make two points, but I would also like to point out that, here, we should simply look at the reasons why we should grant or not allow the defence before the Constitutional Court. However, I think it is also necessary for Mr Bonfrisco to mention two details of the substance, which Mr Gasparri has also summed up very well. I would also like to point out that the accusation was in fact that we had tabled an amendment, which had been tabled almost identically by various political forces, indeed probably by all the political forces present in the Senate. Above all, however, it is worth remembering that the approved text was the one presented by the Government: I say it right for a question of correctness. The second aspect, always of merit, is that of corruption. Not only was it evident ictu oculi, as President Gasparri said, but I must say that there was evidence in the records of the non-susistence of the charge of corruption. I am not there to repeat and to bring things back, because there was also proof of a payment to the person who had hosted it during a short holiday in Sardinia: all this was in the procedural proceedings and had induced us not to grant the permissions required at the time. I come back to the fact that we must not deal here with the substance of the matter, which has already been widely discussed and resolved, but with whether or not it is necessary to ensure that the Senate is brought before the Constitutional Court. I believe that we have a duty to defend the prerogatives of the Senate, because for the very fact that we have made a decision, we have obviously done so responsibly and with the knowledge of the acts and therefore we have to defend the decisions that were taken. I also believe that we cannot forget that, by defending what had happened and the decisions that had been taken before, we are only defending the institution and therefore the prerogatives of the institutions. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to ensure that the Senate is constituted in court, in its interest and in defence of the institution itself, as requested by President Gasparri's report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u150	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I rise to announce the support of the Fratelli d'Italia Group for the proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Gasparri. We also believe that the Senate should be brought before the Constitutional Court in order to defend the reasons for its decision on the matter. President Gasparri and Mr Cucca have already pointed out that this is a rather singular affair, because they claim to be a purely parliamentary affair of one of our colleagues, at the time Senator Bonfrisco. It has been rightly recalled that there is already clear and irrefutable evidence in the acts of the absolute non-susistence of the contested crime, because - as President Gasparri rightly said - it is not possible to corrupt a person without his knowledge and against his own will, to the point that, failing to pay this blessed holiday, Senator Bonfrisco sent a gift of equivalent value - if not superior - to the performance received and that she had not managed to pay for the absolute refusal of the person who was to receive the payment. For all these reasons, I believe that the Senate must and cannot do anything but defend its own decision (for which at the time Brothers of Italy also voted in favour) and therefore constitute itself in court. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u153	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not the place to take up the merits of the issues that have been raised by both the rapporteur and the previous Members. At this stage, only the legitimacy of the Senate of the Republic to be part of this conflict as the body competent to declare definitively its will in relation to the application of article 68, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, without prejudice then to the phases of merit and in any case it will be the Constitutional Court to decide on the presuppositions of the power incumbent upon the Senate in relation to the unindicability of the declarations. I therefore believe that it is absolutely appropriate for the Senate to be represented before the Constitutional Court in respect of its prerogatives under Article 68 of the Constitution and, on behalf of the Free and Equal Members of the Mixed Group, I declare the vote in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u156	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take a few words to draw attention to the subject which raises today's decision. The substance of the matter today is not the subject of our decision. The decision taken by this House on the substance of the matter is a precondition for the fact that we have to stand trial to defend a Senate decision. So, it's about defending the senate's determination, regardless of the attitude we might have on the merits of that previous decision. I believe that this is the assumption that they derogate from very exceptional cases. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that here the merit has concerned a particular aspect, namely the use of Article 68 of the Constitution with reference to the votes cast by the Member. In my case, I voted in the Junta on the basis of the conditions laid down in Article 68 of the Constitution, but, regardless of whether or not this aspect exists, it is a particular issue of the relationship between Parliament's freedom and self-determination in parliamentary and legislative action, on the one hand, and, on the other, the areas of other powers of the State. I therefore believe that this is a case in which, because of the sensitivity, in a plastic and obvious way, we must vote for the constitution in court, knowing that this is the continuous exercise that we do in this House when we deal with certain issues, and when we delimit these areas and decide, in other situations, that, on the other hand, the scope is the sole responsibility of the judicial authority, we legitimise decisions more effectively than we take today. It is, that is, a continuous exercise of dialectic in the relations between the powers of the State, which certainly constitutes a high moment in the application of the founding principles of the rule of law, of the liberal state, enshrined in our Constitution. For this reason, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the constitution in court, but I wanted to share these principles because they are the same, at least as far as we are concerned, on the basis of which we determine ourselves and have determined ourselves in the decisions we take in the relations between Parliament, parliamentarians and representatives of the Government and, on the other hand, the purely judicial sphere. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u159	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as we return to something we have already discussed both in the Junta and in this House, this is an opportunity to delimit certain fundamental principles and constitutional principles. The principle of separation of powers constitutes a fundamental postulate of a democratic state and presupposes a reciprocal autonomy of the various powers: of the legislative one, of which Parliament is the sole interpreter, of the executive one and, finally, of the judicial one. This basic perspective permeates the system of immunity, which plays a role in preventing or preventing undue intrusions or trespasses by the judicial authority into Parliament's prerogatives. With regard to the affair involving Senator Bonfrisco, a fundamental point must be clarified: the judicial authority can, indeed must carry out all the necessary investigations in the case of corrupting cases, but this certainly cannot imply an instrumental use of this power that takes as a pretext a manifestly unfounded corrupt hypothesis to invade areas and choices that are foreign to the judicial sphere and that constitute the humus of the parliamentary function. [[Applause]] The Junta, operating in the wake of the Constitutional Court, in particular with the judgment n. 188 of 2010, confined the Senate union only to profiles of manifest implausibility and also to cases in which such profiles emerge by acta without the need for investigation. As has been said, the obvious and manifest unfounded nature of the accusatory hypothesis in the present case emerges from the acts transmitted to the Senate by the judicial authority itself and also has a manifest character which can be found, ictu oculi, from the examination carried out. If, however, there is clearly no corruption, then, we must ask ourselves how can the judicial authority review an amendment which is a typical parliamentary act, on the contrary, which is one of the cornerstones of the parliamentary function. The words of Article 68 of the Constitution should therefore be recalled here once again: Members of Parliament shall not be required to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties. In the present case, as the accusation of corruption was clearly unfounded, Senator Bonfrisco was asked to respond for an amendment, therefore for a so-called intramoenia act, also according to the jurisprudence of the Consulta. As a result, the prerogative of indefatigability, which the Senate will have to defend in the conflict of attribution in question, is certainly configurable. Parliament's prerogatives are a fundamental element of the democratic life of the country, safeguarding the autonomy of the parliamentary mandate, and ultimately the autonomy of politics. The undue interference of the judicial authority in legislative decisions could harm not only the autonomy of Parliament and the parliamentary mandate, but also the impartiality, autonomy and independence of the judiciary itself, which, interfering unduly in areas outside its powers, would end up slipping into pathological situations and contra Constitutionem. Parliament's autonomy and the independence of the judiciary are two sides of the same coin, two closely related constitutional values: a judiciary that transcends the boundaries of its powers harms not only the autonomy of politics, but the independence of the judiciary itself. Therefore, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione party, I would like to point out that the Senate should be set up in court to assert all its reasons and prerogatives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u162	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, I would briefly like to remind you of the events which have affected the Junta in this matter. On 21 July 2017, the prosecutor asked for the postponement of the then Senator Bonfrisco, with the following charges: offence of association for criminals and corruption for the exercise of the function. In particular, the provision in Article 318 of the Criminal Code aims to prevent the commercialisation of the civil service, i.e. to combat acts of public entities which may be subject to private sale. Well, according to the accused plant, Senator Bonfrisco would have accepted from Mr. Zoccatelli, general manager of the Consorzio energia Veneto, as well as managing director of Global Power and E-Global Service SpA, the payment of a stay in Costa Smeralda for you and three other persons; the recruitment, at your request, of a person at E-Global Service SpA; the payment, at your request, on behalf of Mr. Bendinelli, of a transfer of Euro 4,000, arranged on 26 May 2015, also by Zoccatelli himself to finance the electoral campaign of Bendinelli. Therefore, the judiciary has hypothesized a real criminal partnership aimed at ensuring that all the contests banned by the Consortium were automatically awarded to the company of which the Zoccatelli was the legal representative. According to the proceeding authority, the senator would have provided constant and continuous political support in favour of Mr Zoccatelli, promoting and strengthening the Consortium, in particular through the submission of an amendment aimed at allowing the Consortium to be included among the thirty-five aggregate entities at national level, as well as through the concrete interest, by the senator, in the legislative process of this amendment. Well, in a statement of 5 May 2018, Bonfrisco claimed the applicability of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. The judge for the preliminary hearing, considering that the guarantee of immunity in the event of proceedings against a Member of Parliament for the offence of corruption for the exercise of his duties was inapplicable, had instead the transmission of the acts to the Senate. While, on 9 January 2019, the Junta in the majority of its members considered that the accusation of corruption was manifestly unfounded because of the obvious lack of malice, and consequently the justification of the magistrate's union on a parliamentary act, and in particular on the amendment tabled by the senator, was lost. In essence, the Junta considered that, without an unimplausible accusation of corruption, the parliamentarians could not be called upon to respond for the opinions given and the votes expressed in the performance of their duties, as referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution, thus bringing back within the floodgate of the indisputability of this rule also a typical parliamentary act as an amendment. This is with the opinion and the vote in favour then of the Movimento 5 Star Group, which instead considered it necessary to leave to the judiciary the task of assessing or not the existence of the specific dole, that is the awareness or not of receiving money or other utility in order to carry out acts in accordance with its duty as a public body. On 9 January 2019, the Assembly approved the conclusions of the Council. Well, with reference to the above resolution, the judge for the preliminary hearing raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State before the Constitutional Court requesting the annulment of the decision of insindacability adopted by the Senate. On the merits, the judge considers that the Senate, having exercised a union on the non manifest implausibility of the accusation, has given itself a power to assess the basis not falling within the scope of the powers of the Chamber of belonging of the parliamentarians and which is instead exclusively for the judicial authority. Well, the Movimento 5 Stars agrees with this argument because, in the event of proceedings against a Member of Parliament for the offence of corruption for the exercise of the function, the guarantee of the indispensability referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution cannot be invoked. Indeed, it was not for the Senate of the Republic to decide that the facts for which criminal proceedings are pending against Senator Bonfrisco concern opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties under this article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Evangelista, I invite you to remain on the subject of the matter, because we have already discussed the act. EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, that is the legal question, so I apologize, but I would like to conclude my speech. The legislative work carried out by a Member of Parliament, in particular that of legislative production, is certainly subsumible in the exercise of the public functions of a constitutional body (principle that we find even in several judgments of the Court of Cassation), therefore does not preclude the persecubility of the crime of corruption for the exercise of the function referred to in Article 18 of the Criminal Code, configurable against a Member of Parliament in relation to the activity carried out in that capacity. So the judiciary, contrary to what the Junta said and then in the Chamber by the parliamentary groups that preceded me, in raising the conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, has applied principles of law and jurisprudence and has not invaded - unlike what - it wants demagogically to make the sphere of parliamentary powers and prerogatives believe; if anything it is the opposite, also because the Junta cannot enter into the substance of the facts challenged by the judiciary to the senator. I therefore conclude by affirming the opposition of the Movimento 5 Star Group to the constitution of the Senate in the conflict of attribution in question, as suggested by the resolution of the Junta, and announcing its vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u163	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the conclusions of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic before the Constitutional Court in order to resist in the aforementioned conflict of attribution raised by the judges for the preliminary hearing of the ordinary court of Verona. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. ( [[Applause).]] The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate, for the constitution and representation in court of the Senate, to one or more lawyers of the free forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u166	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since our country was hit by this bad pandemic, I have filed 14 urgent questions to urge the Government and especially the Minister of Health to provide clarification of what is happening in Italy and what civil society and citizens tell us every day. While it is true that our duty is to represent those who have given us confidence, it is equally important to be able to provide answers. The fact that the Minister in recent months has not had the will to come to the Chamber or to respond, even in writing, to his offices shows once again that the fine words echoed in the newspapers every day, with reference to the debate in Parliament and the cooperation with oppositions, are thrown into the wind. Citizens have understood this, so much so that they would simply read the comments under each post that you post to perceive the anger that you have fueled with false promises. A pandemic plan that stood to say years ago, waiting lists that risk to make more victims of the Covid, surgical masks without certification, no control to exclude from the contracts concluded with the public administration the enterprises that operate on the national territory, but that manage their current accounts in foreign countries, that is tax havens. We have not yet understood the reasons that have prompted Aifa, within a week, to change the decisions on the administration of Avonex and we do not know the data of the trial, to understand in which health facilities it has been administered, to which patients and with what consequences. I do not quote the questions on autopsies, Agenas, distribution of medicines at home for cancer patients, a serious plan for the prevention of frailty fractures and, last but not least, discrimination on health professionals, who, not having a public contract, are forced not to undergo a swab or serological test for fear of not working and not earning: you call them heroes, but then deny them rights, while always trying to do their duty. Mr President, I entrust you with the request to ask for the reply to questions 4-03217, published on 21 April 2020; 4-03296, published on 29 April 2020; 4-03297, published on 29 April 2020; 4-0333, published on 5 May 2020; I have another 17: I hope that someone will strike a blow from Lungotevere Ripa to clarify some very important aspects for the life of Italians. The questions I have also submitted to various ministers in the months preceding the pandemic have hardly been answered for two years. These are questions that a Member of Parliament addresses to ministers of competence and ours are always born at the request of the people we would like to represent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u169	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, the former Minister of Cultural Heritage Massimo Bray recently published a beautiful volume with a very good title: Under the heading "Culture." Culture is precisely the subject of my speech today: a lemma in this House almost forgotten, if not forbidden, both because it rarely resounds, and because, when it happens, it almost always sounds dumb empty boxes. Well, it is also so in the country of which this Assembly, like that of the House, is the faithful mirror. To education and culture the Commission is still entitled today, of which I am honoured to be a member, but the embarrassing truth is that culture is not enough for itself, in the minds of the most: it must always be associated with something that justifies it and gives it some of its dignity. We also hear in recent times the combination of culture and tourism, complicit in the unfortunate attribution of skills on tourism to Mibac. Having gained the first place in the binomial does not change the hierarchy: it is tourism that, so to speak, "saves" culture and not vice versa; it is the world that saves beauty, to understand us, at least in ministerial perception. I am convinced, indeed, that, after having returned to the acronym "Mibac" the final "t" and having it equipped with a special direction, it will soon be possible to openly recognize tourism the primacy that has already, in fact, in the eyes of those who believe it and proclaim it inseparable from culture, whereas, in my opinion, tourism has nothing to do with culture, but with its commodification. I demonstrate this with a striking example: one merit that this Government can certainly claim in terms of interventions to restore the thousands of workers damaged by the Covid-19 is the EUR 5 billion allocated to culture and tourism, according to the formula, except that the first goes only one and the second four. From the systematic underestimation of culture comes also the precarious state of our sector infrastructures, already suffering from shortage of staff - I think of the blessed competitions - and resources before the pandemic, which now offers alibis to many. Who would not shout at the scandal if today, June 24, instead, the ports were still closed or blocked the highways or simply blocked the doors of the stadiums? Yet many archives and libraries, which are the main infrastructures of the Italian cultural system, together with museums and galleries, have not yet reopened. My city, for example, Crotone, has two national museums, both inaccessible and Vibo Valentia the same. Over the last few days, the alarms of archives and libraries have multiplied in this regard. I am thinking of the letter of the Coordination of Historical Companies of 22 May to the ministers Franceschini and Manfredi, followed by the appeal of a group of professors, PhD students, checkers, librarians and independent researchers. Let me echo them in this House and add my voice to many voices, even very authoritative ones, which denounce the paralysis to which the Italians who devote themselves to humanistic research have been condemned, far beyond the end of phase 2. It is not the number of users intended to make the need, but the value and irreplaceability of the service offered. What is the point of continuing to force employees of public administration to smart working or subject them to absurd forty documents and books? Culture risks paying the highest price just because archives, libraries, museums and galleries do not have behind them those pressure groups capable of influencing the choices of the Executive as well as airlines, football clubs and club owners. On all this lies the stubborn silence of the Minister of Culture, not even affected by the sudden disappearance of the magistrate Paolo Giorgio Ferri, champion of the fight against the illicit export of archaeological finds and works of art outside our borders, to which they have made chivalrous tribute... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, we're in the fourth minute. CORRADO (M5S). I'll finish. I was saying that he was given a knightly tribute even to his opponents, the American museums, who forced him to return something of the loot from the looting of the Italian cultural heritage and that, for example, in the Hellenistic silvereries of Morgantina, as soon as you returned to Sicily, has one of the most striking evidences of the management of a sector of very high identity value not exactly in line with what it should be. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u172	ABATE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am taking the floor from the benches of the Senate to bring to your attention the insane and denigratory description of Calabria present until a few hours ago on the site of the Anglo-Swiss airline Easy Jet, told as a wonderful place to visit safely, due to the obvious absence of tourists, because of its history of mob activity and earthquakes. Basically, if a tourist who wanted to come to spend his holidays in Calabria visited the section "Inspired me" of the official website of Easy Jet, which describes the cities and nations in which his planes land, he would come across a surreal card, in which the Region, cradle of Magna Grecia is represented in a manner as offensive as it is out of place. I quote it in full, to make it clear to those who listen to the terms used: For an authentic taste of lively Italian life, nothing better than Calabria. This region suffers from an evident absence of tourists because of its history of mafia activity and earthquakes and the lack of iconic cities such as Rome or Venice, able to attract fans of Istagram. It sounds like a fake news, but unfortunately it's not. The outrage about what is written in this information sheet, the subject of the complaint, has gone around social media and newspapers. In the meantime, the company has also apologized and believed that it has recovered by inserting another description - surreal even this time, if not offensive - of Lamezia Terme, as if those who plan a trip to Calabria did it only to visit this and not all the other wonderful cities that it offers: Sibari, with its archaeological park of about 70 hectares; Reggio Calabria, with its Bronzi di Riace; passing through Crotone, the city of Pythagoras; Catanzaro and Vibo; wonderful beaches, food and wine, cultural heritage and the welcome of people. In the new narrative centered on Lamezia Terme, who produced the text even ignores, the fact that the city historically consists of three countries, united for many years and the name Sambiase is crippled in Siambiase. The situation, in fact, is very different: it would suffice to remind the Anglo-Swiss travel company that, only in the first three months of 2019, Calabria has recorded an increase of tourists equal to 40 percent compared to 2018, a real boom of presences, which place it among the first three Regions in Italy for growth trends. In this region you can have a mix made of cultural tourism, religious and food and wine. In Calabria you can swim in the morning, then take a hike on Sila, a place recognized for the purity of the air, on Aspromonte or Pollino, and, in the afternoon and in the evening, enjoy typical dishes based on meat or fish, with an unparalleled versatility - let me say - in many other places. It's a negative advertisement, the one put on the field by Easy Jet, which Calabria doesn't deserve. On the contrary, it is precisely from this prestigious headquarters that I announce the presentation of a parliamentary question, with the hope that the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and the Regional Councillor of Competence will be active right now, in the appropriate locations, to repair the damage suffered by Calabrians and all the healthy productive and tourist activities that Calabria counts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u175	ALESSANDRINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I raise two issues of great importance to our country, with particular reference to Umbria. The first concerns serological rapid tests: on April 17, Commissioner Arcuri called for a competition for the purchase of 150,000 kits to be distributed free of charge throughout the country, to carry out rapid tests on a sample of individuals. Among the 72 participants in the race, the US pharmaceutical giant Abbott was selected. The Commissioner's maneuver immediately pointed out that there were great doubts, from three points of view: the timing, the quantity of kits and the relevance of the survey. The kits for serological tests were in fact distributed only in mid-May, when many Regions had already had to buy them: only Umbria had purchased about 15,000 in March. A great alarm was also launched by some Italian laboratories, with reference to the close deadline of these kits (which turns out to be in July 2020). We therefore need great answers, which are very important. We want to know first of all whether it is possible to safely exclude that the tests that expire, and therefore the reagents, can provide a false result; what will happen to the tests that have not been used, if they will go back or be thrown away, because clearly they have constituted an important cost for our country, especially during this period. Another topic is the fans. As we know, with the emergency Covid-19 the dramatic situation of health structures and the particular shortage of places of intensive therapies have been clearly highlighted: some have been adequate, others have been created ex novo. The government has entrusted Commissioner Arcuri with the task of guiding and directing the purchase and distribution of fans, which has been done. 61 arrived in Umbria. We were happy, but happiness lasted very little: recently, in fact, the Commissioner asked the regions that received them to return them, a kind of convenient use. We therefore wonder how a decision like this can be considered good: to bring back to the pre-Covid situation all health facilities. It is clear that these actions highlight a political will towards Umbria, a Region led by the League, the ruler Tesei and the whole center-right, which has obviously demonstrated its importance as a region is well guided every day. This is probably why, since the regional elections, which saw the overwhelming victory on the left in Umbria, an excellent job has been done, for which the center-left still criticizes the Umbrian government, which has sometimes been put in the sedan by many colleagues. Honestly I'm proud to be Umbrian, unlike what President Conte said that my land is a province not defined as that of Lecce. This has offended us like Umbrians and here I firmly declare it. Know that the Umbrians will not be subjugated by your games, because they are a people of tradition and value and are correct people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u176	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-234.ana.u177	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 25 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 5.50 p.m.)
