ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 16 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u4	On 16 July 2020, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Public Administration: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 76 of 16 July 2020 on urgent measures for digital simplification and innovation" (1883).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00133 by Senator Wolf and other senators, and 1-00270 by Senator Bernini and other senators, on the aeronautical protocol to the 2001 Cape Town Convention. I call Senator Wolf to explain motion 133.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u6	Mr President, first of all I would like to inform the House that a text 2 has been tabled this morning which has very small changes in form and I think it is already being distributed. We are in a context of unprecedented financial crisis and for months the government has been preparing all the counter-measures to withstand the impact of this 2020 under the banner of coronavirus. Of course, credit institutions at this stage are forced to raise their attention to limit the risks of insolvency, access to finance has become increasingly difficult even for large companies. Among them, there is the very heavy segment of large companies working in the context of air transport. The most important companies, in fact, have always used special forms of financing to prepare their fleets and for the acquisition of aircraft often relies on leasing contracts or specific financing. Among these, those on an international scale are becoming increasingly competitive, but unfortunately our companies often find themselves unable to access them because of the inadequacy and cumbersomeness of our legal system. The slowness of Italian justice, sadly known, and the guarantee instruments provided by our legal system have led to a progressive removal from our country by the financing companies of aircraft, since they do not allow the lender to quickly regain possession of the aircraft, putting in difficulty the Italian airlines in access to the most advantageous systems of international financing. In this phase of global financial crisis, the gap that risk having to face our companies of the air transport risks to become insurmountable. In fact, the issue has been on the political table for about 20 years now. To remedy the problem, in 2001 Italy signed the Cape Town Convention on International Guarantees on Mobile Equipment and with it the Protocol on International Guarantees on Mobile Goods for Aviation Materials. Both the Convention and the Protocols, at the time, were intended to provide a uniform regulatory framework for the registration of property, security interests, leases and conditional sales contracts, as well as several legal instruments in the event of insolvency for financing agreements to facilitate the offer of financing of aeronautical assets, aircraft or parts thereof, through the creation of a particularly strong international guarantee in favour of creditors, credit sellers, financial institutions that financed such assets that granted them absolute pre-emption over such assets in an international register. The Convention entered into force on 1 March 2006 and was signed by 81 countries, while the Protocol on aviation aspects entered into force on 1 March 2008 and was ratified initially by 8 countries, to which others were subsequently added, for a total of 65 countries. The EU's accession process was completed in 2009. Although Italy is a signatory to the first hour of both the Convention and the Protocol, it has never ratified the Convention. This has led operators in the sector to identify ad hoc contractual instruments to dispose of aircraft without almost ever proceeding with their purchase. This explains why today there are no aircraft registered in Italy at ENAC, since the majority are registered abroad in countries that have ratified the convention. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u7	If colleagues were to lower the tone of private conversations, I could listen to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u8	LUPE (M5S). The transposition of the Cape Town Convention into our legal system will allow operators to reduce financial risks through the introduction of efficient and harmonised international criteria for the protection of financing banks or leasing companies, such as the right to claim ownership of the aircraft or the right of the mortgage creditor to access the mortgaged property. In practice, the Convention provides that, at the time of buying an aircraft, carriers from a State participating in the relevant Protocol may obtain significantly better financial conditions from suppliers than those normally applied by the market. In view of these advantages for the carrier, the creditor in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the customer can easily recover as to his due, under the remedies provided for in the convention and the annexed protocol. Precisely thanks to the above remedies and the consequent possibility of immediate restoration of the aeronautical good that the agreement and the annexed protocol recognize to the guaranteed creditor or the conceder in a leasing contract, the lenders have more possibility to ensure, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, more flexible and less onerous conditions. The protocol only applies if the so-called obligor, i.e. the taxable person of the operation, i.e. the air carrier, belongs to a country which has ratified the agreement. If this is the case, who lends the financing (lessor) hastens to register the transaction on an international telematic register located in the country that adheres to the convention and at that time becomes the privileged creditor of that aircraft. In short, the entire segment can only have abnormal benefits: all domestic aviation manufacturers, for example, will be able to benefit from an increase in sales and employment levels thanks to the increased funding opportunities for their customers with consequent benefits for passengers, since a reduction in the cost of financing for airlines will inevitably have an impact on the fares applied to passengers. If so far the convention has not been approved, it is mainly due to the fact that it is characterized by mechanisms that may deviate from the traditional principles of our legal system in terms of guarantees for creditors and that appear less slender than those of the countries of common law, on all those of the Anglo-Saxon system. In order to overcome these obstacles, the Convention provided for a ratification mechanism which would enable civil law systems such as ours to adhere to them with certain reservations while ensuring the maximum dissemination of international rules and the harmonisation of rules in the air transport sector. With ratification, Italy could make the necessary reservations about certain provisions of the Convention so that, once ratified, it does not conflict with the fundamental principles of our legal system. This would allow our country to see its fleets registered in Italy, in the national aeronautical register (RAN) and not in Ireland or Malta, where unfortunately for years all the fleets of the companies are registered, especially European. A crucial step, in order to ensure that the legislation can be applied in our legal system, is the modification of the rules of the navigation code. Article 760 requires, in case of cancellation of the aircraft from the RAN, a sixty-day wait for the aeroplane in Italy from the day of publication of that request, in order to allow any interested party to rely on it within that period. However, without ratification it will be impossible to incorporate the benefits provided for in the Convention in another way into our legal system. In the Italian market, the financing of aircraft, whether financial leasing or dry lease, inevitably has higher costs: Italian air carriers cannot access the financial regulations relating to international guarantees entered in the electronic register and where this happens they are obliged to register, by express request of the lender, aircraft in countries that have ratified the Convention and Protocol instead of in the national aeronautical register. In addition, Italy's failure to transpose Article XI of the Protocol on aeronautical equipment is one of the biggest obstacles that the lenders and aircraft manufacturers (I am reminded of Boeing, which in Italy, in Grottaglie, builds almost 10% of models 787) detect in order to allow an airline holding an Italian aircraft operator's license to register the aircraft in the RAN managed by the National Civil Aviation Authority (ENAC). I shall conclude, Mr President. The motion under discussion calls for a commitment from the Government: to facilitate the rapid start of the process for the submission to the Chambers of the bill of authorization to ratify the Cape Town Convention and its aeronautical protocol, involving all the administrations responsible, with any reservations and declarations envisaged; and, after the start of the process of authorisation to ratify referred to in the previous commitment, to provide for the subsequent reorganization and adaptation of the provisions contained in the navigation code in relation to the procedures for the registration and cancellation of aircraft from the national aeronautical register, as well as to the national legislation on insolvency and the regime of collateral, as well as the relevant procedural provisions. I thank you, Mr President, and my colleagues who have had the courtesy of listening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Mallegni - whom I kindly ask to go to the rapporteur's desk - to explain motion No 270.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u9	Mr President, I will try to be less formal and more focused on the substance of the measure we are discussing. This is an interesting and important issue, because, particularly at this time when we are faced with a civil aviation market in great difficulty, I think it would be essential to arrive at the signing and ratification of this Cape Town Convention. I am telling the truth: regardless of who made it or there was before us, it seems particularly strange to be here after so many years in which by the Italian Government - but not of this, but of those who have been there before - has been expected and has never taken it to approval or sign it. Now, however, the matter has fortunately been brought up to date, because if we simply offered guarantees and safeguards for the purchase of aircraft, we would be out of the world today. I am of course speaking with the Presidency and aware that Mrs Lupo listens to me, also because it is practically the three of us - perhaps four or five, but still a small number - who are taking part in this interesting debate: today the issue of civil aviation has necessarily clashed with the problem of coronavirus (and therefore of Covid-19), highlighting that dozens - not to say hundreds - of companies at international level, which in the meantime had leased or otherwise, do not have the structural financial soundness to offer guarantees of any kind: neither, first, the continuity of the service; nor, secondly, the passengers, therefore, the transporters; nor, thirdly, the relationship with their employees (pilots, ground and flight personnel, etc.). Today, therefore, it is even more necessary to sign the convention, with the apostilla that we have included in our motion, because we believe it is essential that, before we open... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I also give up the speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u10	Please continue: I am sincerely listening to you; if you listen to me from the Presidency and Senator Wolf, it is not...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u11	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). No. I give up, Mr President: you have been perfect, but I say to you that I give up the speech, so as not to cause any discomfort to colleagues who are doing their own business - correctly - and I would therefore like them to continue. Therefore, I would refrain from continuing the intervention and hope that you will vote on the motion that Forza Italia has tabled. What can I tell you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mallegni, continue with your speech. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). I'm always silent when others talk. Having said that, the problem is that the soundness of the company's profit and loss account is and must be the first priority today. It will allow me to wander slightly to focus on the concept of economic soundness from an entrepreneurial point of view and not necessarily with public support. We believe that the presence of the State is necessary (i.e. that the public is an essential and important element of the corporate structure of the companies, in particular of the flag companies), but we got a little' taken hold, because for some time the going seems to testify that when there is something that does not work the public enters, assumes the majority of the property and then you will see. We have doubts about this, although I am the first to have said on several occasions, even in the Commission, public works, communications, that it is necessary to maintain one of our companies. The short lease with the concept of the internationality of the companies, the solidity and the subscription of the convention requires me to say: attention, we offer services and guarantees and we obligation to an economic solidity, but we try to provide to those who work in the aviation market (the talk of the companies and the private ones) the possibility of obtaining guarantees - these yes - from the governments of the States, that they must offer an activity of adequate supervision. We have a National Civil Aviation Authority that, as we say on my side, makes people laugh, because everything does but perform its own function of direction, control and vigilance. One thing he can do well: wages, which are perfect. We carry out an activity that reduces all the costs of politics and - then - we pretend not to notice that alongside, on the right and on the left, we pass stuff loaded on the shoulders of citizens - from the smallest to the oldest - hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros to finance services that, in fact, are not provided. Frankly I hope that there will be sharing on the motion presented, which is unideological and very concrete, aimed at committing the Government to present the bill of ratification of the convention, containing normative initiatives to raise the economic guarantees necessary to found an airline. This is what I said a moment ago, given the need to have good financial soundness, including - and not only - through the ownership of aircraft. In fact, to say today, sic et simpliciter, that you buy an airplane means little, because you do a lease just having to prove the ability to pay it. The motion also intends to commit the Government to act, as far as its competence is concerned, through international agreements, in order to establish effective controls on the airlines operating in Italy. In fact, we are probably self-harmful, as we hinder our flagship company and, then, when others arrive we welcome them with open arms. Ryanair arrives in the most strange ports of call of our country and collects money with full hands: it is public money, the Municipality, rather than the Province or the Region. Also in this case, the public contribution, which is - even rightly - criticized against the flag company, is paid constantly and monthly to private companies that are based in foreign countries, that do not pay taxes in our country and that carry via market to the national aviation system of Alitalia. According to a study a few days ago, in the totality of the air transport in relation to the incoming in our country, Alitalia transports only 8% of the passengers; Ryanair almost 36; then there is EasyJet and other companies. Do we want to ask ourselves questions? Do we want to ask ourselves why? Good. I sincerely hope that our motion will be accepted by a large majority because we are all in the same direction, with the sole objective of the safety, protection and enhancement of the airlines they deserve, and not those that speculate leaving nothing on national territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u12	I declare the debate open. Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u13	Mr President, I have listened to the speeches by Senator Wolf and Senator Mallegni on a sensitive issue such as the Cape Town Convention, one of the classic conventions signed after a diplomatic conference to try to standardize different regulations from different countries on issues that involve - as in this case - guarantees on movable property, even of an important dimension. It is no coincidence that the work done by the Institute for the Protection and Defence of Private Law dealing with these issues has divided its work into three protocols: one dedicated to aeronautical goods, aircraft; another related to rolling stock, and a protocol relating to space goods. The motions focus mainly on the protocol on aeronautical goods on a well-known issue for Italian professionals, the one concerning international guarantees on aircraft; this case also concerns Italian airlines closely. The convention and protocols signed by Italy have never been ratified, and there are reasons. This clearly creates difficulties. The purpose of the Convention with its Protocols is to provide a uniform legal framework for the registration of property, security interests, leases and conditional sales contracts, as well as several legal instruments in the event of insolvency for financing agreements. With the establishment of the international guarantee, the lenders, through their registration in the international electronic register, enjoy the possibility of recovering aeronautical assets, i.e. aircraft that, through their organisations, are leased. This is one of the main points that also concerns the Italian market. Italy has already signed the Convention for a long time, in particular the Protocol concerning the aeronautical part, in December 2001, but has not ratified these instruments. This entails the risk - in some specific cases, in others likely - that the financing of aircraft, whether financial leasing or dry lease, will have higher costs, because Italian air carriers cannot access the financial regulations relating to international guarantees entered in the national aviation register (RAN). From this point of view, the reasons for not proceeding in this direction are also due understandably to the fact that this legislation has been influenced by the countries in which there is a legal system characterized by common law compared to realities such as ours characterized by civil law. I think, however, that it is definitely a subject that can be overcome in order to try to build a context and a land for our operators to guarantee both the lenders and the companies, also because it is necessary to standardize and give guarantees. Europe did so only partially because some reservations that could be put at the beginning, i.e. at the time of the signing of the Protocol, were not put. I am referring in particular to Articles 11 and 30, which are more involved in the debate we are having. Since those reservations have not been applied at the time of signature, they can no longer be opposed. From this point of view, we must give more guarantees in order to be able to standardise the regulatory framework. I think we should start a debate and bring ratification to this House. So let's resolve the last outstanding points and do the necessary insights with all the ministries involved, including the Ministry of Justice, in order to achieve the possibility of ratifying and giving a clearer picture. I have one final reflection on the Forza Italia device presented by Senator Mallegni. Compared to the motion tabled by Movimento 5 Stars, he adds further points. I refer, in particular, to the second paragraph of the mechanism which commits the Government to adopt, within the same draft law of ratification, legislative initiatives aimed at increasing the economic guarantees necessary to establish an airline in Italy and in the European Community, providing, among other things, that a new airline has good financial soundness, to be demonstrated also, only as an example, through the ownership of aircraft; and to the third point that it undertakes to take action, as far as its competence is concerned and also through international agreements, in order to establish effective controls on the airlines operating in Italy. It is an extremely complex subject. The motion calls for the ratification of the Cape Town Convention, which specifically deals with giving international guarantees to donors, but which is not the subject of discussion of the motion. If we are to concentrate, then, on the Cape Town Convention and the implementation of the Protocol, I think that these points are pleonastic and deserving of further study with other instruments. From this point of view, as Senator D'Arienzo will say in the explanations of vote, the Democratic Party expresses a favourable opinion, but also wants to listen to the opinion of the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u14	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u15	Mr President, the motions before us are intended to call for the implementation of the multilateral treaty of Cape Town, which seeks to create a set of uniform standards, standards and international guarantees for aircraft and engines, mobile capital goods in the aviation, rail and space sectors. Once all the countries that have signed the treaty have received it in their respective legal systems, it will be valid on the territories of the acceding States. The Treaty is particularly important at this time, because it concerns one of the sectors - the air sector - which has suffered most and suffers from the closures of the entrances and exits from the various countries in the world. The Treaty aims to give a greater guarantee of financial stability and, therefore, operational to the reference market with - to fall - guarantees for the air and rail transport sector and, therefore, for the entrances of the same travellers. The Convention on International Warranties on Mobile Equipment and the three protocols relating to aeronautical equipment, railway rolling stock and space goods make up the Treaty of which we call for ratification. The Convention is from 2004 and has already been signed by twenty-eight countries; the Protocol on aeronautical equipment instead is from 2006 and have already joined forty-six countries. The purpose of the package of provisions that we ask to adhere to, by transposing them with an Italian law, is to offer a regulatory framework that simplifies the offer of financing aeronautical goods through an international guarantee. In the absence of the new guarantee provisions, we have an Italian market where aircraft financing has higher costs, as neither lenders nor debtors have access to financial regulations relating to international guarantees entered in the international telematic register. On the contrary, the Treaty contains different types of guarantee for both lenders and debtors. What we believe is the most interesting for the sector of our aircraft and helicopters is the so-called discipline of effectiveness and opposability to third parties of the guarantee entered in the international register and also the possibility to apply the Convention itself and the means registered in the register of aircraft of a Contracting State. Similarly, in the event of the creditor's insolvency, the procedures for returning aircraft equipment can facilitate the sector in Italy. The Treaty should therefore also be amended and strengthened in the light of our national interests. Airlines nowadays tend to use the financial lease instrument, so-called leasing, for their own aircraft and less and less to take them into ownership. Therefore, it is even possible to found an airline having all aircraft under lease, very simplified conditions that require a certainly reduced financial capacity. This can also be seen as a critical element in a market, such as that of air services, where large, heavily structured airlines are measured. And in order to challenge the giants there is the risk that a company with an inadequate financial soundness will then be forced to close by comparison with the market, with obvious implications on lost jobs, on the failure to pay contributions, on the activation of public income support instruments, on suppliers and creditors, but also detecting possible negative repercussions on passengers. Therefore, we are certainly in favour of ratifying the Cape Town Convention and its Protocol on aeronautical equipment through appropriate legal instruments. At the same time, we are in favour of raising the economic guarantees necessary to establish an airline in Italy and in the European Union: provisions that could be included in the same ratification law. Never before do we have to make a clear distinction between reliable and less reliable operators, so the functions of the National Civil Aviation Authority become important for the verification of the standards established - we say - to ensure the solidity of the airlines, but we mean above all to guarantee those who travel by air and the citizens, on whom often the account of the failure of the airlines falls. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u16	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u17	Mr President, we welcome the motion 1-00133 (text 2), tabled by Senator Wolf and other senators. With regard to motion 1-00270, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, we express a favourable opinion on point 1, if reworded as point 1 of motion 1-00133 (text 2), that is to say, to facilitate, in a short time, the start of the process for the submission to the Chambers of the bill of authorization for the ratification of the Cape Town Convention and the related aeronautical protocol, signed at Cape Town on 16 November 2001, involving all the administrations responsible, with any reservations and declarations envisaged, are involved. As far as points 2, 3 and 4 of the proposal are concerned, we take the opposite view, because these are aspects which are not relevant to the Cape Town Convention and which, because of their importance, deserve separate consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u18	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u21	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in this difficult period in which all companies, including large companies, have difficulties in accessing credit particularly in the aviation sector, where purchases are financed by airlines through very complex operations and leasing contracts that require a system of rights and guarantees in favour of the financing bank or the leasing company, it becomes increasingly burdensome, also because of the slowness of the various processes and sometimes the regulatory gaps of our legal system, access to more competitive international financing, thus pushing away a large number of airline sponsors. To overcome these difficulties, in 2001 Italy signed the International Treaty at the diplomatic conference in Cape Town, but to date the Convention and its Aviation Protocol are waiting to be ratified. By finally transposing the Convention into our legal system, we will be able to reduce financial risks by introducing unique criteria for the protection of the financing bank or leasing company, such as the introduction of common international standards to identify jurisdiction for conflict resolution, or the right to claim ownership of the aircraft or the mortgage creditor's right to access the mortgaged property. Finally, the lenders, by registering in the single international register completely accessible online, in which they sign up the aircraft, the owner and the guarantees given to the banks on a declarative basis and following the principle of precedence, will have an absolute pre-emption compared to the subsequent registrations. With the ratification of the Convention, creditors could use a number of measures aimed at asserting their rights or interests on the aircraft, including operations to speed up the taking of precautionary measures without the need for judicial intervention. There would be a guarantee of general satisfaction with the specific requirements of the aviation sector by giving the utmost confidence to lenders and creditors involved in securing credit in the sector. Implementing the principles of the Cape Town Convention would give recognition to international interests related to the aircraft in relation to internationally recognised rights to owners, landlords, tenants and funders of the aircraft, simplifying and harmonising international procedures with widespread and widespread benefits. It is important and necessary to have a single legal framework for international aircraft guarantees in order to respond correctly to the needs now internationally recognised and to allow all parties involved in the air transport sector to enjoy wide and reciprocal benefits. Ratifying the Convention would be to equate our legislation with that of other countries in order to attract banks and aircraft leasing companies, which certainly prefer to register their aircraft in countries covered by the Convention. This would increase the operation of national civil aviation and the competitiveness of national banks by reducing costs and risks for international financing. We will also have the opportunity to develop a favourable political and legislative environment for leasing companies and financing banks, with a significant increase in employment and increased tax revenues. This ratification is therefore necessary to bring oxygen to the airlines with a certain reduction in financial costs and greater access to international sources of financing. Moreover, it is beyond doubt that with the Convention ratified all the national aeronautical manufacturers, thanks to the greater opportunities of financing for their customers with consequent advantages also for the passengers, because a reduction of the cost of financing will necessarily affect the air fares, so they will be able to increase not only the sales, but - what is more important - also the occupational levels with economic and social benefit for all our country. For all these reasons, the Italian Parliamentary Group Viva-P.S.I. shares the motion and declares its vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u24	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of motion 133 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator Giulia Lupo, because at a delicate time like the present, with banks all over the world, including the Italian ones of course, who are suffering and have raised their attention to the issue of credit and the risks of insolvency, access to credit has become an essential point for many companies, especially large ones. With regard to aircraft, which traditionally refinance themselves through complex operations and leasing contracts, ratification of the Treaty in our examination is even more important. The inadequacy of the Italian legal system and the slowness of a series of processes that limit the access of airlines - on which Italy has very significant experiences - to more competitive international financing, represent a problem for the development in perspective of the companies under consideration, as their refinancing requires a system of rights and guarantees in favour of the bank that finances or the leasing company that in our country is leading, due to the presence of a number of obstacles, even paradoxical situations. In order to overcome these difficulties, it was thought of as the Treaty which was signed in 2001 and which, as is well known, was never transposed. In fact, the transposition of the Convention - and the motion goes in this direction - will reduce the financial risks to banks or leasing companies - for example - thanks to the right to claim ownership of the vehicle or mortgage creditor to access the mortgaged property, which seems to be two absolute banalities but, to date, they are still not possible. Therefore, the implementation of the principles of the Cape Town Convention will simplify and harmonise international procedures and this will ensure generalized and widespread benefits in particular to our country. The creation, at last, of a single legal framework of reference for international guarantees on vehicles meets recognized needs in other countries, but which are felt especially in Italy. To date, many countries have already ratified the Cape Town Treaty and this has created a imbalance even within the European Union itself, in which some countries like Ireland are masters. Therefore, its ratification on our part would allow us to equate our legislation with that of other countries that attract airlines for the financing of banks or aircraft leasing companies. It is more convenient in fact to register your aircraft - it does so also to Italy - in these Countries, increasing the operation of operations elsewhere, even if it is national goods. Therefore, the approval of the Convention would increase the competitiveness of our banks and leasing companies, which could, of course, lead to lower costs for airlines and lower risks associated with international financing. The ratification of the Cape Town Treaty therefore benefits Italian companies; it benefits Italian banking companies, Italian credit institutions and Italian leasing companies. Not only that: there is an additional benefit that concerns not only banks and leasing companies or airlines, but also Sace and Simest agencies, in the sense that the ratification by Italy of the Treaty of Cape Town allows to reduce the risk - so far it has happened and will happen again - that the agencies Sace and Simest have taken on the activity of financing Italian exports. In fact, both Sace and Simest are particularly committed at this time and present on the financing of exports of some aircraft. In view, the ratification of the Treaty will bring Italy to the same level as other countries in the world but, above all, within the European Union; and it could favour national aeronautical manufacturers, who will potentially benefit from an increase in both sales and employment levels, thanks to the increased opportunities of financing for their customers. This could also lead to a reduction in costs and positive effects on air fares. Therefore, the ratification of the Convention - as my colleague, Senator Alfieri, who spoke at the stage of the general discussion - is in the interest of Italy, in the interest of the air transport industry, the nautical industries and the financing banks, because it makes more favourable - as I have already said - the financing of aircraft and helicopters. In order to close this process, which has been going on for many years, we had to wait for the reflection, finally concluded, finally, by the European Union, on who had the right to ratify this Treaty: whether the national parliaments or the European Union itself (the European Commission, in particular). Now that the node has been dissolved, namely that it is up to the national parliaments of the Union to ratify, there are no more delays and obstacles to ratification. In this way, even Italy, at the time of ratification in this House, will be able to enjoy the legal protection system equal to that of those who have already ratified it, and better protect credit institutions, leasing companies and the Italian aeronautical industry. We hope that this brings benefits both on the flows of financing and on the safeguard of our industrial heritage and - we hope - also on the fares for the passengers. For these positive reasons, the Democratic Party Group will support motion 133 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Wolf. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u27	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, before I vote on the motions in question, allow me to make a brief excursus, which I believe is important and necessary, almost a flight of reconnaissance on our legislation. In the eighties, in Italy, the airlines that wanted to open and carry out the activity of passenger transport and freight transport, had to have the availability, within their fleet, of more than 50 percent of carriers in ownership. Subsequently, the rule has changed and today we find ourselves with companies that open, that they exercise their activity and they have the aircraft in leasing. This obviously creates a situation of concern and not only for politics but for everyone, because - as you will have understood - a minimum capital is sufficient to be able to open an airline, with all the consequences of the case, also starting from the savings that are very often made in the maintenance and control of aircraft. In recent years, unfortunately, we have also witnessed the opening and closing of airlines, particularly in recent decades, and this has caused immeasurable damage to the Italy system, and not only because of the very often unfair competition against traditional airlines, but also - for example - the failure to pay INPS contributions, salaries to employees, the flight fund and suppliers, creating extremely serious situations of imbalance. In short, I could say that this was a serious damage to Italy. The current legislation provides that companies seeking to open airlines must demonstrate to ENAC that they have the economic capacity, which, however, is very limited, because it concerns the possibility for the airlines themselves to bear for three months the costs related to compliance with suppliers, flight crews and, of course, lessors. It seems to me that we are also faced with an extremely critical situation here, precisely because of the lack of guarantees; so much so that over the last ten years we have witnessed numerous failures. In the last year I simply want to remember the closure of Air Italy, which included Air Italy, Eurofly and Meridiana. I believe that in relation to the lessors, who are - I would like to make it clear - the owners of the aircraft leased (the so-called landlord), it appears to us that in recent decades in Italy not even an aircraft owned by some concessionaire has been blocked or foreclosed. This is the real situation, which puts suppliers in great difficulty and the entire chain and creates situations of imbalance. We still have to point out - for example - that within the European Economic Community there are countries which have even more elastic rules than our own to obtain the AOC (certified air operator); Here, too, there is a special situation with regard to competition. I would also like to say a few words about private Alitalia, which has been contested in many situations in recent years. I would like to remind you that it cost the State about one billion and 300 million, but I would also like to remind you that Alitalia has paid to the State about two and a half billion euros in taxes, INPS contributions and contributions to the Flight Fund, which is the pension fund for pilots and flight attendants, so there would be an active balance of up to one billion and 200 million. We believe, as a Forza Italia Group, that if Alitalia were managed in a better and more professional way, it could create a much more advantageous situation for Italy itself. Another problem is low cost companies. According to an important study recently published by an important national newspaper, it has been verified that the companies in question obtain annually in Italy, from Italian airports, about 300 million euros. However - it is a well-known fact - taxes are not paid in Italy and this is a problem. Most of the passengers coming from Italy are transported outside Italy itself. Here I would like to remind you of the situation of British Airways, which is a large airline, with a very large number of international carriers; low cost companies are in essence helping and increasing its activity, while Alitalia is in difficulty, especially for the reason I highlighted earlier, namely unfair competition. In conclusion, we absolutely believe that the rules in question should be approved and, in particular, the Convention because, with its approval, there would be greater economic and financial guarantees, especially for those wishing to open an airline. These rules, however, must - in our view - have a value within the whole of the European Community, and not only in our own territory. As some colleagues have said before, ENAC will also have to be strengthened and dimensioned in such a way that it can carry out appropriate checks on all airlines operating in Italy, in particular on national airlines which should prove to be overly elastic in the application of the rules. Indeed, the nations, which very often - as I said at the beginning of my speech - have very wide mesh legislation, compete with our shipping companies, in particular Alitalia. As we said before with my colleague Wolf, we are in agreement with the principles and wishes of the motion you have tabled and, therefore, we will vote in favour of it, as we will do on our motion, which I believe can be of great interest and above all allow Italy to put itself on the right track in order to be able to recover economically that scissors created with the airlines of other countries, which are much more structured than ours. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u30	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I immediately declare the Lega Group's vote in favour of the two motions before us, explaining the reasons for them. However, before giving the explanatory statement, also considering that many considerations have already been made, I would like to make a general statement on the meaning of the motion. This is a rather particular sui generis motion, because we are committing the government to ratify a protocol, creating a bill to do so. The procedure is, of course, legitimate, but we have preferred not to file a motion because we believe that there are much shorter ways of doing this. A daily intercourse with the Government - for example - would have enabled this bill to be immediately available. As an alternative, we could have presented it too, but in that case a problem would have arisen: where a bill of parliamentary initiative was presented - as has already been the case - asking for the ratification of the Protocol under consideration, the Senate should have discussed a draft law of parliamentary initiative. In this case a completely different scenario would have been opened, as we have said over and over again. Someone preferred to choose then the governmental route on an act that all in all is very agreeable and easy enough to follow. Having said that, it is important - in my opinion - to make a rapid timeline on the history of the Protocol, because we are talking about a Convention dating back to 2001, which entered into force in 2004, with the accession of the European Union in 2009. We are talking about a path that has affected the Convention for about twenty years, during which many things have happened in the world, in many areas, but the one in question is very specific. We are talking about the aviation sector, but - as can be seen from the subject of the motion and the Convention - the space sector is also involved in which - as you well understand - twenty years is equivalent to a real era. Someone mentioned low cost companies earlier. The world of air transport, even if I am not an expert, has profoundly changed, as the world of airspace has also changed. So today there are no longer large carriers, but we are talking about mini, micro, nanosatellites and, therefore, all the material that composes our mobile aerospace instrumental goods is extremely small in size and portability. As a result, we are facing a completely different scenario. When we ratify the Convention - and I remind myself and then the House - we know that we will not change it and, therefore, we will not be able to update it, if necessary, where necessary. I repeat that we will simply proceed with a ratification process such as this. This, of course, is a problem that concerns not only this subject, but all ratifications. Having said that, the object of the struggle is certainly extremely important, especially during this period. We come from a huge crisis, which has not been the same for many decades, and it is clear that the sector in question also needs special attention and funding, support and subsidies. The object of the motion and above all of the Convention is - in our view - extremely important because it would allow us to have a uniform regulatory framework and, therefore, a single judicial scenario, which is obviously important for the possibility of attracting investments for our companies, but also, in a bidirectional way, to allow our entrepreneurs to move freely on the international market. The failure to ratify the Convention for about 20 years has led to the fact that, unfortunately, we have had much higher costs on the Italian market and this has increased the risk of the sector on the financial market. It has already been said that there will be a strong reduction in financial risks for structures such as Sace and Simest. I repeat, therefore, the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group, hoping for a very fast path to ratification and that it might be possible to assess, where the Government, in the face of a commitment made, is still a little 'unintentional with respect to ratification, the possibility of providing with a bill of parliamentary initiative. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u33	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the motion that we are about to vote on today is extremely important, so that the Government can follow up on what was laid down in the multilateral treaty adopted at the diplomatic conference held in Cape Town between 29 October and 16 November 2001; a treaty with specific content of great importance. We are talking about international guarantees on movable capital goods, i.e. uniform rules governing the constitution and the effects of an international guarantee on certain categories of movable capital goods. The new international legal framework aims - as indicated in a report from the European Commission - to facilitate the provision of financing for aeronautical assets by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors, which grants them absolute pre-emption over such assets in an international register. It should be remembered, Mr President, that the Treaty is officially introduced from 1 April 2004, but the so-called Protocol, which specifically deals with aircraft and aircraft engines, only enters into force after two years, on 1 March 2006. At that date it had been ratified by eight countries (Ethiopia, Ireland, Malaysia, Nigeria, Oman, Panama, Pakistan and the United States), to which other states later joined. Unfortunately, to date, Italy has not ratified either the Convention or the Aeronautical Protocol, although it has signed both documents on 6 December 2001. This, Mr President, has cost us a great deal in economic terms, because in the Italian market, aircraft financing has a high cost. Air carriers operating in Italy cannot have access to the financial regulations relating to the international guarantees entered in the electronic register and, of course, this affects the whole market. Like Italy, France and Germany have also signed the Convention and the Protocol, respectively in 2001 and 2002, but they have not yet ratified them. The Commission responded to the inertia of the Italian institutions, initially presenting two proposals for signature, which were then blocked in the Special Committee of Permanent Representatives, due to disagreements between Spain and the United Kingdom. Meanwhile, since 2004, new states have acceded to the European Union and on 1 March 2006 the Cape Town Convention and the Protocol on aeronautical equipment have entered into force, making the proposal for signature put forward by the European Commission completely obsolete and also making it necessary to initiate a procedure for accession to the Convention and the Protocol. The accession procedure by the European Union ended on 29 April 2009 and the Convention and Protocol entered into force in the European legal system on 1 August 2009. Despite this accession, the limitations remain different. The above-mentioned rules on the international guarantee on capital goods and the pre-emption guaranteed to the lender who enters this guarantee in the electronic register are not yet applicable. The time has come to remedy these conditions which are counterproductive to our country. The abovementioned Convention and the Aeronautical Protocol introduce a new legal framework for international guarantees on capital goods, related rights and the definition in this context of an international registration system for precautionary purposes. The Convention specifies the scope of the financial instrument; it favours the appropriate definitions; it lays down formal prerequisites for the establishment of an international guarantee, regulating its effectiveness vis-à-vis third parties and establishing judicial remedies in the event of non-compliance with its provisions. According to the Cape Town Convention, carriers from a State that adheres to the relevant protocol purchasing an aircraft can arrive with their suppliers under significantly better financial conditions than those normally applied by the market. I mean, it's a turning point. In view of these advantages for the carrier, the creditor, in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the customer, will be able to easily recover what is owed to him by means of remedies provided for by the Convention and the annexed Protocol: this also needs to be taken into account. More specifically, the Protocol regulates the methods of repayment in favour of the lender of aeronautical equipment which is the creditor's guarantee for the debtor's insolvency. Among the most important measures is the possibility of the creditor to obtain, in the event of default and provided that certain conditions are met, the removal of the aircraft from the national registration register or the export and physical transfer of aircraft equipment from the territory in which it is located. It is quite clear that an air carrier using registered aircraft in a country that is party to the Convention, both in the form of leasing and in the case of ownership by its own subsidiary, can exploit its country's accession to the Protocol, obtaining the best conditions. Against this, there is the guarantee for those who grant the financing to have greater certainty, which allows them to immediately take advantage of it, if this is necessary. Among the countries that are geographically closest to us, the Republic of Malta and the Republic of San Marino joined the Convention and Protocol, resulting in the virtual removal of operators and leasing companies from Italy. It is time that our country also breaks the delays and eliminates this twist. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group to the motion on the Aeronautical Protocol of the Convention of Cape Town of 2001, as this transposition would serve to standardize, for the benefit of both the creditor and the debtor, the discipline of the registration of the property, the financing and the guarantees relative to the international transitions having to specific goods, like the aircraft, independently of the place where they are located. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u34	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 133 (text 2), tabled by Senator Wolf and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 270.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u37	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to ask for a split vote on our motion, also in relation to the position expressed by the Government, by voting separately on point 1 of the provisions and then on points 2, 3 and 4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would point 1 then be put to the vote in the text reworded by the Deputy Minister? MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, in the rewording proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u38	I would ask the House whether it is in favour of the request for a split vote, bearing in mind that the Vice-Minister had given a favourable opinion on the premises, and that we would therefore vote together on point 1, while we would then vote on the others, on which the Government has expressed an opinion against them. If you do not object to the proposal made by Senator Malan, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion by separate parties. I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and point 1) of motion 270 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 2, 3) and 4) of motion 270 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00257 by Senator Salvini and other Senators, 1-00261 by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, 1-00265 by Senator Cioffi and other Senators, 1-00271 by Senator Bernini and other Senators, and 1-00274 by Senator Vono and other Senators, on Motorways for Italy. I call Senator Pucciarelli to explain motion 257.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u40	Mr President, from Liguria it is an honour to explain the motion tabled by my Group on the management of motorways, on the blocking of the motorway network that my region suffers daily, with considerable economic damage, and on the doubts concerning the agreement signed in the Council of Ministers on 15 July. The doubts about the agreement mainly concern the exit of Atlantia and the takeover of Cassa deposits and loans. We are concerned about Aspi's debt, which is around EUR 10 billion, which will have to be met by those who take over from Atlantia, i.e. Cassa depositi e loani. We remember that Cassa deposits and loans is financed mainly with the postal savings of the Italians, therefore, unless clarification, Atlantia will go the profits and to the Italians the debts. On the other hand, on the road network block, I believe that Liguria has already given and that, therefore, it can no longer wait a minute to return to normal. (at 10:52 a.m.) (Following Pucciarelli). I turn to the reading of the motion: By letter dated 12 October 2007, the Italian Government sent a letter of formal notice to the Italian authorities in order to inform the Commission of the reasons for its failure to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and to inform the Commission of the reasons for its failure to comply with its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to comply with its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would like some silence. Those who do not want to listen are not forced to stay in the Chamber and can go out. We talk about Liguria, about important things; those who do not want to listen and want to chat are asked to go out. [[Applause]] I think it's fair to those who want to listen. [[Comments]] You have little to recriminate: anyone who doesn't want to listen can very well go out. [[Applause]] I have the right to illustrate a motion that concerns an entire region that is currently in collapse. [[Applause]] I would like to resume the reading, Mr President: In the course of the session n. 56, held in the night between 14 and 15 July 2020, the Council of Ministers resolved to settle the dispute with Autostrade for Italy SpA by accepting the proposals submitted by the latter; these proposals provide in summary: a new corporate structure of the same Autostrade for Italy SpA, with the immediate passage of its control to a subject with State participation identified in Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP), as well as the exit of Autostrade for Italy from the perimeter of the current parent (Atlantia) and its simultaneous listing on the stock exchange; the realization of compensatory investments by Autostrade for Italy for 3,4 billion euros, the rewriting of the Single Convention, the strengthening of the system of controls charged to the concessionaire, the adaptation to the tariff discipline introduced by the Authority of regulation of the transports and the tightening of the sanctions for violations by the concessionaire. Given that: to almost two damages from the collapse of the Morandi Bridge, no decision has been reached in order to revoke or maintain in existence of the concession highway in charge of the company Autostrade for Italy SpA; in less than two years the construction of the new viaduct, which will be inaugurated in the next weeks, thanks to the special regulatory regime provided for by the decree-law 28th September 2018, n. 109; the continuing situation of stalemate between the Government and the company Autostrade for Italy SpA has led to the block of all the private investments on the highway company in concession for 14.5 billion euros, as well as to a total paralysis of the Liguria road; from many weeks, in fact, the Autostrade for Italy SpA has led to the block of all the private investments on the motorway company in concession for 14.5 billion euros, as well as to the maintenance of the viaducts and the tunnels, the continuing of which is due to cod and delays in the whole of the Liguria road network, with heavy inconveniences for citizens and companies and losses for more than 1 billion euros per month to guarantee the national logistic system are to be on the fair traffics on the Liguria on the way of the road is due to be carried to the I'm done, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Ciriani to explain motion 261.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u41	Mr President, I will present the motion signed by our Group and reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote in a more general way on the subject which lends itself to many reflections, including political ones, as is easily intuitable. Our motion, in fact, takes up a topic that we had already developed almost a year ago, when the issue of Ponte Morandi had exploded, as well as the question of the desecration of the concessionary regime, namely the agreements between the State and the private companies that had taken over the motorway network. There was a strangeness that, however, was easily found by anyone who frequented or frequented the motorway network as a user. I am referring to the abnormal and unjustified rise in the costs of motorway catering and commercial services and the sale of fuel and the provision of carbubricant services. This is because there are royalties that the State has authorised by the private company in respect of the operators of these commercial services. It is a completely liberal, unjustified and totally monopolistic regime, which naturally falls on commercial activities that are forced to impose prices that exclude them from the market and competition. In the Italian free market, therefore, there is a sort of regime built with art and limited related to activities within the highways. Here there is, in fact, a completely abnormal regime and, therefore, those who want to fill up are forced to pay a very high price. The damage is both for those who have to fill up having no alternatives on the highway and for the society that has to sell these fuels because the tendency of all is to escape from the highway service. Some of the official numbers that we have recorded speak of a collapse in the sale of petrol and fuel on the highway, against an increase in tolls in fifteen years of 71 percent. We are not faced with a concessionary regime, but with a cuccagna which the State has authorized against private individuals. In addition to the state cuccagna, which feeds on tolls that increase much more than inflation every year and without the investments that should be associated; in addition to the stranglehold of commercial activities and a totally illiberal regime and the fact that these poor exhibitors are in fact forced to carry out their activities with imposed prices, the scandal of the Morandi bridge has exploded. The highway queen cannot be in conflict with the Italian laws and other activities that take place outside the highway network. The conclusion that the Government has announced on this matter, about which Mr Fazzolari will speak in a few minutes, is a solution that does not convince us. President, about three days before the conclusion, Prime Minister Conte in a newspaper had solemnly expressed two concepts: the State will never be a member of Benetton and the revocation is the main road. There was no revocation; there was no termination of the contract; the Benettons are still members of the State. The Benettons are there while the revocation is not there. If the Benettons leave the highways, they will do so with their pocketbook swollen in times that no one is yet able to determine, but that they are announced very long. The curious thing about this affair is that, at the moment, the undersigned and the Parliamentary Group Brothers of Italy have not understood what this agreement consists of because a press release cannot be defined as such. An agreement is a written act; there will be a document and an industrial plan; there will be a written agreement between the parties: we need an official act under Parliament's control and on which Parliament can express its opinion. To date - and I also ask the representative of the Government - we do not have a piece of paper from which to deduce the timing and the ways of this transition from Benetton to Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and for the realization - as far as we could understand why, I repeat, we do not have any pieces of paper and official data - of a public company, of which the State should be indirectly the controller. Mr President, we ask that the State and the Government take over the issue of motorways not only for the lifting, the resolution of damages, the investment and the taking over of workers, the industrial plan that must be confirmed and, indeed, increased, but that the problem of the cost of tolls and royalties be taken care of. It is unacceptable that on the highway the purchase of a sandwich and full of petrol cost much more than the market demands and much more than common sense can even imagine. This is a regime that cannot continue; the State must intervene because, in the end, those who pay the price of all this are once again the users of the motorway, who have to cope with an indispensable service operated in a monopolistic manner, but monopolies, including state monopolies, must be prohibited. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u42	I call Senator Santillo to explain motion No 265.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u43	Mr President, I begin by announcing text 2, which has been tabled by the majority. Before explaining the motion, I would like to make a brief preliminary step: today we are in this House dealing with the issue of motorways because the Government and the majority have certainly made an important point. There were those who gave for legally impossible or technically wrong the termination of the advanced concession contract in the aftermath of the technical insights that concerned the tragic events that occurred with the collapse of the Morandi bridge on August 14, 2018. Today, however, we can clearly state that the private party obviously did not consider it so impossible, otherwise it would not have agreed to arrive at a transaction with the State that overturns the model of management of the motorways so far followed. Coming on the merits of the discussion, I quickly retrace what happened since August 2018 until I reach the great result achieved today. It is known to all that, in the aftermath of the collapse of the viaduct Polcevera insistent on the motorway section of the A10 Genoa-Savona, the Ministry of Infrastructure has started checks in order to ascertain eventual non-fulfillment of the obligations deriving from the concessionary relationship in existence in virtue of the single convention of 2007 from Autostrade for Italy. A technical inspection committee was subsequently appointed and asked to identify the possible causes of the collapse of the viaduct. The Commission, on 14 September 2018, completed its activities by filing a technical report. The Directorate-General for the Supervision of Motorway Dealers of the same Ministry, with note of 16 August 2018, formally initiated against the concessionaire the contestation of serious non-compliance of maintenance and custody obligations in objective consideration of the collapse of the infrastructure, of the confirmed victims and of the considerable damages brought back to the goods also of third parties. What happened with the collapse of the Morandi bridge had echoes and reflections on the entire motorway network entrusted to the concession, first of all by weakening the confidence of the grantor, that is, the State, which represents the general interest of all in the agreement with the private concessionaire, in particular of the users of the entire motorway network. In such a context and in view of the seriousness of the breach of the concessionary company, the option of termination of the agreement and the early termination of the concessionary relationship with ASPI appeared to be fully plausible. However, given the complexity of the issue, including from the legal point of view, a working party was subsequently set up to investigate the possibility of alternative solutions to the resolution. It should be remembered that since the first convention of 1997, recently considered illegitimate by the Court of Auditors, twenty-five years of favorable rules have followed for the concessionaire and for the sector in general, norms culminated with the approval by law of the last convention occurred in 2008 thanks to the then center-right government, with inside the League and the current leader of Brothers of Italy Giorgia Meloni. It is a fact that twenty-five years of favorable rules, with the endorsement of a complacent policy, could and could make very insidious a dispute with the concessionaire, adding to the tragedy of forty-three human lives broken the potential mockery of a maxi-loss on the part of the State. Therefore, following careful and thoughtful checks and analyses, with the agreement of all the administrations concerned, the solution identified in the Council of Ministers of 14 July 2020, during which the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport carried out an information on the state of the definition of procedures of serious default against Autostrade for Italy SpA (ASPI). In the information the possible alternatives on the definition of the case were set out. During the meeting, ASPI sent two new transactive proposals concerning, respectively, a new corporate structure of ASPI and new content for the transactive definition of the dispute. It goes without saying that the proposals are the result of a constant pressing that the State has managed to exercise always holding firm the option of revocation. The proposal provides for specific qualifying points regarding the future company structure of the concessionaire, namely: compensatory measures with exclusive charge of ASPI for the total amount of 3.4 billion euros; rewriting of the clauses of the convention in order to adapt them to the decree-law n. 162 of 2019 (so-called milleproroghe); strengthening of the system of controls charged to the concessionaire; increase of the sanctions also in case of minor violations by the concessionaire; waiver of all the judgments promoted in relation to the activities of reconstruction of the Morandi bridge, the tariff system and the acceptance of the tariff discipline introduced from the authority of regulation of the transports. In view of the implementation of a major maintenance and investment plan, contained in the same offer, Atlantia and ASPI have undertaken to ensure: the immediate transfer of the control of ASPI to a State-owned entity (deposit and loan fund); the direct transfer of ASPI shares to institutional investors of CDP's liking; the division of Atlantia with the exit of ASPI from the perimeter of Atlantia and the simultaneous listing of ASPI on the Stock Exchange. Following the findings of the Council, the Council of Ministers considered that it should initiate the procedure laid down in the law for the formal definition of the transaction. The time that has elapsed since the tragedy has served to achieve the best possible solution, the one that best protects the public interest. As the President of the Count Council said, we are interested in the substance and not in the slogans and propaganda of the opposition. [[Applause.]] Thanks to the agreement, we will have more fair and transparent tariffs, more efficiency, more controls and I would say fewer broken lives. This government has stated a principle, too often trampled on in the past: infrastructure is a valuable public asset that must be guaranteed in a responsible way, always guaranteeing security. Teamwork, the firmness of the President-in-Office of the Council, the great commitment of the Ministers, the active cooperation of all the majority forces were rewarded, even in the most difficult stages. The motion therefore wants to commit the Government: to follow up what has been decided in the Council of Ministers of 14 July 2020 regarding the transaction of which it has been said, clarifying the timing and the time-scanning of the phases of implementation previewed for the definition of the transaction with Autostrade for Italy (ASPI), without prejudice to the unilateral resolution of the convention with ASPI in case of non-completion of the transaction, also taking into account that the companies involved in the agreement are composed of a plurality of shareholders; to guarantee a constant and strict supervision on the operation of the dealer ASPI during all the phases of implementation of the agreement in relation to the obligations arising from the concessionary relationship and the transaction, because of the importance of the public interests involved; to guarantee, in particular, the realization by the concessionaire of the essential actions for the safety and the technological adaptation of the highway network, taking into account the need to fully restore the protection of the general interest to safety as indispensable objective of the public action and the concessionary relationship, as well as the maintenance of the current occupational levels of Autostrade for Italy also after the positive conclusion of the agreement in consideration. Finally, the motion intends to commit the Government to ensure better implementation of the infrastructure maintenance programmes entrusted with the concession and more effective monitoring of the actions carried out, as well as to ensure and safeguard the transparency in the action of the concessionary company or, in general, of the infrastructure manager, also through obligations of punctual and periodic publication of all the acts and data suitable to allow a control on the fulfilment of the contractual obligations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u44	I call Senator Pichetto Fratin to explain motion 271.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u45	Mr President, the motion tabled by the Group of Forza Italia starts right from the night between 14 and 15 of this month when the Government has actually chosen to nationalize ASPI, so after two years of statements with revocation announcements, we are now going to purchase with public funds. The purchase is described, at least in the media and by some statements, as a fair punishment for the collapse of the Morandi bridge and unfortunately for the victims. The question we are asking ourselves, however, in the assessment which the government has made or which the government must make, but which this Parliament must also make, is the following: is the operation, in this way, of public interest? The money of the Italians, the postal savings is well invested in the political choice to nationalize Motorways for Italy? Do we not run the risk of becoming another Alitalia or like many of the companies with state participation of ancient memory? The great theme of these days, today but also for the next few days because at the moment we have not yet seen the so-called memorial that should define the modalities of the agreement, is what will nationalization cost, this 51% Cassa Depositi e Prestiti? How much will it cost, given that the cost will have to be assessed against the market parameters? Because it will have to be the same, or in any case completely paired, to what will be done for the so-called other favorite members or partners. In this case, there can be no double weight between the purchase price by Cassa deposits and loans and the partners, the preferred partners. You realize, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an operation that has been somewhat confused and in some passages even, if we want, violent, more violent in the statements than in the facts. In our opinion, if there was fault and if there were culprits they had to be identified and there could be, in this case in a dry way, the revocation because that was the punishment, not a purchase that, at the moment, still is not understood for who it is profitable, if for the private part that comes in a bonario way not expropriated and is convinced to yield - spontaneously or pushy certainly depends on the price - or the State that should do and evaluate the public interest. So we will have Ilva, Alitalia and now also ASPI and Minister Patuanelli himself, responding to the question time last week, quoted Terna and Leonardo. Those who speak to you would like a state that would focus its funds more on school, hospitals, justice and defence, but I have the utmost respect for what can also be a political choice that, however, automatically imposes new CDAs and related political revenge. We repeat: if there were any faults, after two years they had to be clarified and there had to be, in case, the revocation. Now, however, there are some issues. First of all, how will the Government address itself to the quality of future business choices? A press release already says that tariffs are being changed, but I believe that they are linked to the assessment of company choices, not of choices made even before acquiring ownership. So, I wouldn't want, on a statement of this kind, to pay the highways for those that highways don't use. I wish there was this assessment from the government. Another element that I think is important is that of the image of a country and also of an industrial policy. Benetton and other members have certainly earned a great deal in Autostrade for Italy. Benetton, however, is also a great national brand, especially in the textile sector. What is the image damage our country has with such an operation? I would like to remind you that, in our country, foreign investment in companies operating in our country is estimated at 400 billion. How will foreign investors read this behavior? We already have, like all of you, colleagues, you know, a deterrent to investment in our country, which is the time of justice. On the other hand, if after two years we do not yet have the correct judgements of justice on the case of the Morandi bridge, this is yet another proof. At this point, in addition to this we add operations like this. Will they still trust you? Will they still trust the word of the Italians? Can we say that Italians have one word? We have to deal with these problems. Of course, we must take them as Parliament, regardless of what the government has to do for itself. I now come to Cash deposits and loans. This operation goes hand in hand with the relaunch decree approved last week in this House. Mr President, cash deposits and loans are being used as an ATM. Cash deposits and loans was, in the history of this country, the bank that financed the public works of Municipalities and Provinces and public works in general. It has the obligation and the duty to manage well the tax savings and, therefore, to invest it in profitable transactions. It may be that the motorway system can be a profitable operation. We do not know what will be, instead, those of the decree I raise, but on this we put the utmost attention. On this overall uncertainty it is stated in the newspapers that the revocation is not yet excluded, also because we do not yet have the final document. Does it serve to reassure the markets? Is that something that reassures the markets? In the three days prior to the agreement, the Government communicated and hypercommunicated everything, in particular the intention to revoke. The title was depressed and then splashed to more than 26.5 percent after the announcement of the agreement. The question is, is that okay? Isn't that, perhaps, market disturbance? Is it possible to know who bought and who sold in those two days, in which the President of the Council and others communicated the intention of revocation and the title collapsed? This is part of the same transparency that Italians are entitled to with respect to the acts secreted of the agreements of Autostrade with the Ministry of Transport. On these issues, Mr President, we raise the question of ownership structures, industrial structures and the need for greater transparency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u46	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to take a brief look at the story of ASPI (Autostrade per l'Italia), since it collapsed the viaduct on the river Polcevera. It had started well by talking about caducation or decadence of the concession, as the good Earl of the Cricket said that, a bit like the proverbial alarm clock that marks the right hour twice a day while standing still, even he once in a while had said a just thing. Why is it important to set this deadline? Because the concession had to lapse as a result of a manifest non-compliance and therefore, as such, nothing would have been due to the concessionaire, i.e. the grantor owed him nothing. If the dealer had anything to complain about, the court would have been the proper seat and there you would have gone to see the game. On the other hand, the forfeiture has been transformed into revocation; the latter requires compensation (loss of profit) in respect of all non-incomes which would not have been realised in the event of an early termination of the concession. So the first question is: why was it used at some point only the term "revoca"? Malafede? Let's say statistically, if everyone starts talking about revocation, doubt comes. This is the first very serious mistake that has been made. The second mistake was to customize the matter. I must say that only one party did this: the PD did not do it, Italy Viva did not do it, the League did not do it, Brothers of Italy did not do it and Forza Italia did not do it. The mistake consisted in transforming a question of principle, that is, a manifest non-compliance, into a personal fact: we resent the majority shareholder and want him to go out. Politicians must not do this, because they must always act according to the public interest and not according to personal hatred towards someone. But let us move forward and see a little, in the particular case, the financial operation, the one formalized on 14 July. How is the current situation? The current situation is that 88.06 percent of ASPI is held, either directly or indirectly, by the Benetton family, through the parent Atlantia; 5 percent by Silk road fund (the Chinese) and the rest by something called Appia investments Srl, which contains Allianz and others. The operation that you want to put on the field works like this: you will make a dedicated capital increase, with injection of public money, that will not remove a single action to the parent but simply dilute its quota. So the state will put fresh money through the deposit and loan fund. If then the aim was to extrovert the parent was to take over its share; if you do not do it is because you put it on white that you have to recapitalize Autostrade. Then we'll see why we need to recapitalize. The second phase will be that Atlantia will have to give up part of its shares, but not to the public, but to institutional investors who, contrary to what is thought, are not public but are typically investment funds, i.e. private savings collectors. So if the operation was to be to bring back public goods like concessions, I guess it's not working that way. What should happen at the end of this reorganization? Cash deposits and loans will have 33 percent, Atlantia will have 37 percent, institutional investors will have 22 percent and others (the ones before) will have a dilution of their share. In this operation Atlantia will not put a cent; it will be a recapitalisation and an injection of funds in Autostrade for which Atlantia will not "hunt" anything. Secondly, we are talking about a break-up with a listing of motorways, i.e. a pure market operation. The State does not act as a state at the moment but acts as a market operator. This split should take place by giving up shares (if the shares mean that you put shares). Well, will these shares be shares of Cash deposits and loans (pro quota for all) or will it be another capital increase, so other money picked up on the market? I believe the second of the two, because the fact remains that Autostrade for Italy has so many debts (about 10 billion euros), that of course will have to be redistributed pro quota; therefore part of the Atlantia debts will no longer have them and will pay them to the State. Moreover, the recapitalisation of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti will not be enough to cover and therefore the market will have to be used again. Here Atlantia will make a second big deal in my opinion saying that he does not want to join the capital increase; consequently he will not put a penny there either. I would at least do so, because it is the only logical operation for someone who wants to disengage from the investment. Why then the listing? To put back into the market what was so hard to bring back to the public? Nice! It declares one thing and then it does another; the bad market that wants the remuneration of the capital. So this is also an operation that apparently doesn't make sense. But not only that; at the moment, some €15 billion of investments on the network are blocked. We do not know when they will unlock, but in any case even here there will be a dilution, that is, Atlantia, which had to cover 88 percent of the amounts before, now it will not have to do it: it will cover 37 percent. So if we put together all the money that the current parent will no longer spend on recapitalization and maintenance and pro-quota debts, it seems to me that we are over 10 billion euros abundantly. All against EUR 3.4 billion of compensatory compensation for no longer having to talk about anything else. It seems to me that this is a big deal from someone who wanted to get rid of their share. So much so that it has to be said that Atlantia not only said it's okay, but added: If you want all 88 percent, we'll give it to you. So why would someone, so eager to get rid of their share, make a bad deal? Everyone understands that, except, of course, someone in here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u48	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the debate on the motions concerning the concessions made by Autostrade for Italy to mention another important concession in the hands of the Atlantia Group and therefore the Benetton family, which is much less talked about. I refer to the airport concessions of ADR, Airports of Rome, which concerns the concessions of Fiumicino and Ciampino, which are also concessions of public goods built with the money of Italians and given in concession to private individuals with particularly generous clauses. I wanted to open a parenthesis on the point because I find it rather bizarre that while the government is making the bad voice with Atlantia and the Benettons, saying that scandalous things will no longer be allowed, meanwhile it seems to plot in the shadows to do favors to Benetton on Rome's airport concessions. I would therefore like to focus on some specific issues: in the so-called I throw again decree, a decree-law made in order to face the great emergency of the coronavirus, in order to face the economic crisis that will come down on Italy and to help those on their knees, at the last moment the majority introduced an amendment in which it previews the extension of two years of all the airport concessions, including the concession of Airports of Rome that expired even in 2044 - already this is a blasphemy - and that thanks to the aforementioned decree-law, in order to face the crisis of the coronavirus, will be postponed to 2046. Or rather, it will not be postponed: it was postponed to 2046. Given that in this House the Daily Fact is used as a source of law, as we have seen before by colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, well the source of law "The Daily Fact" says that this two-year extension is a gift of one billion euros to the Benetton family. It's kind of bizarre to understand these things, but okay, it must have been an oversight. An oversight, however, difficult to understand if we match it to what happened with the fast Italy plan, presented by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT), by Minister De Micheli. On June 12 the MIT publishes the Italy plan fast; a plan with the great works that the Government intends to realize and speed up. Among these great works, in the list published on June 12 and presented to the General States of Villa Pamphilj, there is also the doubling of the airport chair of Fiumicino, because it is expressly inserted the words "fourth runway and adaptation of the airport area", which is exactly the one reported in the master plan of Fiumicino, which provides for the doubling of the airport chair. In contempt for common sense and for what has been established in every seat by the Italian courts, that is, that the airport chair of Fiumicino cannot be doubled because it is going to affect a natural reserve of maximum protection, despite therefore the law and the Constitution do not provide the possibility to make over a casting of cement, the Government, that "abbey to the moon" against the Benettons, in the fast Italy plan inserts the doubling of the airport chair of Fiumicino. This intervention is useless because all the studies in this regard certify that in the current sediment it is more than enough to bring the traffic from the current 40 million to 80-100 million passengers, as you would like to do, as Fiumicino already has three active runways, besides those of roll. Heathrow Airport with two runways makes 100 million passengers and the same applies to Munich and Dubai airports. It is therefore difficult to believe the bizarre theory of those who claim that Fiumicino Airport, in order to do what Heathrow Airport can do with two runways, needs five runways. It can be said that there is nothing shady, except that in order to double the airport of Fiumicino the resources of the concessions are allocated, which are public resources entrusted to the private individuals who had to go to the realization of the third airport of Lazio, necessity for the national air transport indicated by the plan realized in 2012. Instead the third airport of Lazio is eliminated and all resources are centered on Fiumicino, in order to create a great monster to continue to allow speculations to the usual known, to the detriment also of our natural reserves, to the detriment of the aerial transport and also Alitalia, because everyone knows very well that to concentrate the low cost companies to Fiumicino has resulted the current death of Alitalia. This is the package that was made. It is no coincidence that on 12 June the fast-paced Italy plan was published and on 25 June the Government decided to cancel the answer in the Chamber to my question on behalf of the Group of Brothers of Italy on the natural reserve of the Roman coast. As a result of this, there is controversy over the media, which headlines in various articles "gift to Benetton" and then happens something that can happen only in the magical world of the current Government: on July 7, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport changes on its site the fast Italy plan, making disappear that of June 12 and publishing a new date July 7, in which the doubling of Fiumicino disappears momentarily; moreover, on July 10, three days later, the same Ministry issues a press statement to the agencies in which it is said that there is no gift to Benetton, which is not true that the doubling of Fiumicino was expected. It's okay that there are those who have the ring to the nose, it's okay that there are people who turn around with the alarm clock around their necks, but not all Italians are without an Internet connection and the possibility to go to check the changes that have been made to a website and see that, caught with their hands in the jam to make yet another gift to the Benettons, the Government had to back down and withdraw the reference to the doubling of Fiumicino airport. Then in the explanation of vote we will express ourselves specifically on the situation of motorway concessions, but if this is the modus operandi we do not go very far. If when the spotlight is lit on an anomaly you try to do something without disturbing too much, but then, as soon as possible, continue the gifts, we do not go far. Therefore, at least on this for the umpteenth time Brothers of Italy has foiled a vile speculation on the area of the natural reserve of the Roman coast. Let's hope someone doesn't try again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u50	Mr President, we have tabled motion No 271, because we are concerned. The situation of motorway concessions is undoubtedly very delicate and for years presented problems, then it has become an urgency and also a shock for all Italians who have seen the images of the collapse of the bridge of Genoa and have known of the numerous victims that there have been. Well, there's an operation coming out of this that doesn't solve any of the problems and creates others. For two years there has been talk of the withdrawal of concessions on these 3,020 kilometres of motorways. More than half of the Italian motorways are enclosed in this concession that was given in its time without any competitive procedure, only with financial operations, where those who should have put the capital were quite good at taking them and not at putting them and then managed the motorways with all the advantages and defects that we have seen (and unfortunately we have seen many defects). In the face of this situation there was a duel in the majority of those who were in favour of the revocation of the concession, in particular the Movimento 5 Stars, and those who were strongly opposed to such revocation and came to this sort of compromise for which perhaps (because here we are above all at the announcement) there will be the entirely objectionable satisfaction of seeing the Bénton family (or Benetton as the philology suggests you should pronounce this name) outside the ownership of Atlantia, and therefore of Autostrade for Italy, but at a high price. And who puts the money in order to buy their shares, waiting that the expropriation obviously should not be foreseen, also according to the Constitution that protects the private enterprise? The money should be put by the Italians, that is, by the Italian taxpayers. Therefore, considering the management of Autostrade for Italy (which undoubtedly has serious responsibilities) lacking or even guilty, depending on how you see it, you give a very large figure to those who have been referred to as the main culprits. In the meantime it would be useful to see all the collaborations that have been there also at ministerial level, because it must be remembered that all the Italian highways are property of the State and not of the dealers, who have contracts that they should honor; most of the times they do, when they do not then usually are rewarded, as we have seen with the affair of the Asti-Cuneo route. The fact of putting Italian savers' money in a company is really crazy, in this period: the Italian State needs money for the thousand interventions that we are asked for, especially in this period of crisis. What do we do? Instead of intervening in support of small, medium and large companies, which need to make investments to keep up with international competition; rather than supporting them at this very difficult time, when they have dramatic liquidity problems, where do they put cash deposits and loans? To pay the Benetton family, so that someone has the satisfaction of saying: The Benettons were driven out of the Freeways. At what price? We do not know: reasonable calculations, which are in progress, tell us about very, very high figures. You really don't understand logic, then. If this operation is to be carried out, would it not be more logical to do what the principles of competition and convenience for citizens would suggest, that is, to compete, as many have been done for public companies, to find a private partner who would put capital and capacity in it? In those cases, a tender was made, in which the different tenders were evaluated. Of course, the contracting entity - the State, in this case - should establish precise parameters (maintenance, protection of employment, efficiency in the management of this company and this large business), so that it does not go into liabilities. Motorways for Italy, in fact, has had huge profits and a gross operating margin of even 2 billion euros on less than six billion euros of receipts, a scary figure (usually, only in illegal activities you have such a high profit margin); but then in the last two years (I speak of 2018 and 2019) it has passed to a budget in red. Attention, then: here you are running the risk of employing billions - and several - of Italian savers, who should be employed elsewhere, to put up a state-owned society (you return to the old IRI, which was founded during fascism and then did many activities) that then risk being lost. Here we must find a person capable of managing and delivering results in the long term, in particular safety and healthy budgets. In these years we have seen management maximize profits for the benefit of shareholders (whether Benetton or many other savers who have put money there): nice thing; the problem is that if you do it at the expense of maintenance - reducing it to the limit and to the minimum level, but sometimes also below, as we have seen in the tragic episodes that have happened - then, as we see in these days, you have to do the interventions all together, with very serious inconveniences (for all Liguria in particular, but also elsewhere). We are then opposed to this statist approach, which recalls Venezuela's economy and even negative experiences that have been there in the past. Is there the will - and probably there is - of the major shareholders of Autostrade to get out of the share ownership? Let's race, because the highways are owned by Italian citizens [[Applause]] , not the gentlemen running the Deposit and Loan Fund. What kind of criterion is - as we have read in the press releases after this agreement at government level - that cash deposits and loans (and this is already a problem) and then other institutional investors to your liking? Where are we? Here we really have the choice between who is good and who is bad; but there are principles of competition and they are not abstract principles but for convenience: do you know how telephone prices have changed since there was monopoly to when there is competition? Here is the same thing: we need competition, which of course must be done taking into account all the parameters (safety, corporate estate, maintenance and investment necessary, because the highways also have to keep up with the times). The solution of putting so many billions of the taxpayer to give a satisfaction will serve to wave the flag until 20 September, when there will be elections, because soon afterwards it will turn out that the amount to be given to the famous shareholders is too high and because this agreement is so vague that it is not really so. More than anything else, agreement was reached on the press release to be made at the end of the Council of Ministers. Here, however, serious solutions are needed, as we need to protect employment and a financial and business reality that is very important to the country, regardless of how it may have been managed and the shortcomings that have occurred. All aspects must be protected, in the interests of Italy as a whole. Such a large and strategic company is a heritage of all: this is an objective evaluation and not of those who managed the event. We therefore need efficient solutions that are up to date and not statist solutions that are probably needed to place some friends on some chair in some board of directors. In fact, the parliamentarians are reduced but the seats are increased for parasitic people not elected by anyone, who do the damage of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u51	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u52	Mr President, today we are debating motions which, as far as Liguria is concerned, are extremely important. We are faced with a situation, now consolidated, especially in recent months, of an extreme discomfort and an objective difficulty for this Region that, in the post-Covid phase, needed to increase its revenues in extreme difficulty. It is clear that the journey times of our motorways are out of control. One cannot think of being able to intervene on a situation, even from the socio-economic point of view, when it sometimes takes four or five hours to make 80 kilometers. It is evident that this situation has a systematic and punctual impact, almost with fierceness, on tourism, the core business of Liguria. It is impossible - or rather, it is unthinkable - that in 2020 there are situations like those that happen every day in Liguria, especially on the weekend, with people who cancel the hotels and reservations on the beach while they are queued by car and waiting for the first useful tollgate to go back. This is not possible, nor can it be imagined. If the reconstruction of the Morandi bridge was a model of efficiency, also through the measures that we have taken from time to time also with the so-called Genoa decree, therefore with the ability to be efficient in rebuilding, what makes species is why the bridge has collapsed. Twenty years have been miscounted that I am an executive of the League in Liguria and at least once or twice a month I went to Genoa for our meetings. If you had the misfortune (which often happened because the meetings never start too soon) to arrive at the tollgate of Genoa-West after 11 o'clock, there was nothing to do: you could not enter Genoa-West and you had to go to the next entrance. And if you had the misfortune - because you were distracted or tired - to take the Genova-Ovest exit, being the Morandi bridge closed for maintenance, you had to go to Bolzanoto and take a tour like Asterix. You know when Asterix turned around and couldn't find a way out? Well, you had to come back and you wasted a lot of time. There is one aspect that makes even more species. When you have a concession that provides for tolls, they guarantee the right profit but at the same time there is an obligation to maintain. I remember - and I challenge every Ligurian and any other tourist who made that journey not to remember - that the Morandi bridge was always in maintenance. I remember the noise - tun tun tun - of who knows what work was done on the Morandi bridge. Well, the bridge also collapsed. You understand that this is not possible and that something is wrong. The duty that was paid was 43 victims and it was August 14th. 11:57 a.m. (RIPAMONTI followed). If it had been a Monday, October 10, with under the parking lot of full companies, with the tail that I have done tens and dozens of times on that stretch, we would probably not count the 43 victims - which are a disaster, if only one - but would be many more. From the moment the bridge collapsed, two years of "pull and drop" followed. I'm not making a reasoning that blames this or that; it's irrelevant. When there are victims, everything gets a little sickening. However, it is obvious (revocation yes, revocation no, we go ahead with the revocation, we make a committee) that at the time a task force was not set up; there was a group of people who had to decide whether there was a possibility of a revocation. Well, we arrived in the night - or rather, you have arrived - to transpose a proposal, namely the entry of the Deposit and Loan Fund (CDP) within the company Autostrade. CDP had already put EUR 1.3 billion in it; perhaps it also makes sense, from a financial point of view, to avoid losing them. That company hadn't maintained it, and I'm saying it in this Senate House, because it's obvious that no maintenance was done - I can think of the movie... Karate Kid, remember? Wax it, wax it - otherwise the bridges don't fall. We agree on that. So probably 1.3 billion would have been lost, and then we invest another 5 or 6 billion euros. We speak here, clearly, probably of a financial partner, and I, from Liguria, have the experience of companies within which the partner was only financial but did not have an industrial core business. Let me give you an example: Piaggio. Senator Pinotti is not there, but there are probably some Ligurian colleagues, even if I don't see them now. The financial partners were emiratini who had put the money, 800 million euros; it looked like a big industrial event, and then what happened? That the industrial event has turned into a quasi-failure of Piaggio. Therefore, the problem that we pose ourselves at this moment, real, tangible, is who makes the industrial plan of Autostrade; What is governance? Who's gonna have the head? Who will have the ability? I would not - I say this hoping to be denied in subsequent interventions - that, since the Benettons are still inside and have had the "know-how" - I put it in a thousand quotes - they will make this famous industrial plan (the Undersecretary Margiotta looks at me with amazement almost to say "but figuratively!); I interpret his expression and make an act of faith: I hope not so). There are EUR 14.5 billion of investments blocked, I stress. Already starting that kind of money supply to improve the situation of our highways would be a lot of stuff. It is clear that the announcement that CDP could enter into governance has made it possible for actions to increase by 20%, and far from me to think that it had been made on purpose, for the love of Heaven, on the contrary, I do not think that was the case at all. However, timing is important. In politics I was taught - perhaps President Calderoli first - that wrong timing is a damage, but when you get it right, you probably bring something home. Right now, with the increase of 20 percent the only one that really had an advantage is Benetton. This is, in my view, wrong compared to those who have not maintained the Italian motorways today. Colleagues, we are talking about the stretch - which I do more often - that goes from Ponente to Levante, but the stretch that goes from Voltri to Lombardy is very bad. If I get to Arenzano and I'm in line because people are going to Milan, and they can't get out because there's only one track with trucks going at 20 per hour, that's a big problem. The situation that has arisen has actually immobilized my land from an economic point of view. There are no losses: we are talking about EUR 1 billion per month. This applies to the port of Genoa and, in particular, to the port of Savona. From Savona, in fact, you have to reach Genoa in order to go north, unless you have to go to Turin (even in this case, however, as the "spiga sees us very well", a bridge has collapsed on the A6 that leads to Turin and the situation to be managed is very difficult). We have included a number of requests in the motion. We ask that the solution of the dispute be not the responsibility of the State, that the protection of the approximately 7,000 workers be out of the question, the recognition of the damages to the companies that have suffered it and, above all, to put at the center of the attention and precise the institutional investors of the CDP (that they must not be put in condition to have some losses), that there is really a reform of the motorway concessions, perhaps taking as example the best practices of others that work. President, the Ligurian citizens who have suffered the collapse of the Morandi bridge, the tides that have devastated our coasts and the collapse of the bridge on the A6 demand and, indeed, claim to know who pays the debts of the Benettons. We want to know. He doesn't want to know Ripamonti or the League: I think the voters of all the parties that are called Italian citizens want to know. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken and, above all, those who have worked out this initiative which we could call 'parliamentary courtesy' because we have at least three profiles to recover and to cultivate with regard to this gigantic issue which can be defined in various ways: 'breaking of civilizations inflicted on Liguria','situation of bleeding pain which affected the city of Genoa', but also, in more general terms, 'condition of the main infrastructures of Italy' after, for a number of years, distraction and superficiality did not want to acknowledge that the Italian infrastructure for traditional mobility had exceeded their technical life. There is a place in Italy called the Higher Council of Public Works. In a country in which unfortunately only the Supreme Council of the judiciary was awarded, the Higher Council of Public Works established in 1968 that mobility infrastructures have as technical life fifty years. This period of time which refers to the ability to operate and to the resistance of those infrastructures has passed; the number of 50 years has passed. It would have been useful if, at some point, this issue had to and could enter the country's agenda, but also that of the Europeanist order, given that there is a Directorate-General and a Commissioner dealing with infrastructure in Europe and that the European citizen's right to safe movement is fundamental. It has happened that the Higher Council of Public Works has revised the technical life of infrastructure and on the new it is now necessary to guarantee a hundred years of life, exactly double. This calls for a challenge which is not that of the "speaker" of politics, but of the Parliament of politics. It is not a question of organizing throwing words here and there to mark a party existence, but of taking care of a priority agenda with financial resources and since yesterday we finally have financial resources up to the level. It is a question of conceiving procedures. See that Guido Gentili of the daily newspaper "Il Sole 24 ORE" has taught us that in the twentieth century from the idea to the yard forty-eight months pass. The Commissioner can reduce the time, but be careful to imagine everywhere, for every place and for every school bench, a Commissioner: then the role of the Commissioner who serves as a necessity is weakened. We must know, then, that at this moment there is a great issue that concerns Liguria, Genoa and the whole of the territories of Italy. The third lane of the highway is a priority to ensure that the dead are not cultivated along the roads, because at the time we have candidates we have agreed to be operators of life, not operators of the culture of death as at present, if we do not give rise to an alarm that stops the political struggle provided that the conflict is determined and instead generates a shipbuilding for the future of what Italy needs. I work at ANAS and for years I have edited the agenda of the things to do of one of the best of ANAS, the engineer Michele Minenna, man born with boots in the yards and man who has conceived the best infrastructures realized in Italy, one that complained in the years distant and past that the General Directorate for the highway surveillance should have human and technological resources, otherwise the pyramid is wrong, so much to do with nothing or little to monitor. This too is the theme of Genoa, its infrastructure, Liguria and Italy. There is a dossier-game litigation concerning the juspenalistic profile of the magistrates and it seems to me serious. Finally I would like to see them with this rigour everywhere in Italy; only the merit and not the disappearance of the truth before the truth. Then there is a contractual issue that the Government is also addressing with resolve, because the idea of that selective contractual issue is objectively intelligent. Finally, there is a management issue, which is not yet addressed, because to say that ANAS is concerned with it does not mean that Stanlio and Oil's gendarmerie is concerned with it. We need to organize numbers, skills and skills, because it doesn't take anything to determine a kilometer of road as a kilometer of plates for death. That is why today's debate must be a fertility of the decision-making, regulatory and administrative procedures that are needed. For too long we thought the Holy Spirit would think about it. I know exactly the numbers of the Directorate-General for Highway Surveillance, when the same needed increased numbers and even money for petrol for missions. Even so this has been missing in some years away and past. I live in a region where the lack of PEF, the new financial economic plan, does not allow Abruzzo galleries (but it is the theme of all Italian galleries) to regain resistance and safety. There is a big issue that also concerns galleries. Here we have a Undersecretary who is not a random intern, but he is a university professor of engineering who has also made free profession and can meet me on the fact that the works of art in Italy all need to find the ability to operate. In the decree-law Genoa the minister Toninelli has previewed a norm that has not entered in the patrimony of satisfaction of the ruling class: it is a norm that finally previews the register of the works of art in Italy, that are not the works of the aesthetics or the works of beauty, but the works of the realization complexity, the nodes that can put at risk the operation of a structure. Galleries, bridges, viaducts: we finally have the picture - we should have it today, because there was also a general direction dedicated to this - which makes us understand, even presumptuously, how much we need next year, what in three years and what in six years. However, we need to organize a stream of attention. That is why the initiative of today's debate is good and it needs to be poured into acts at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you for the attention you have given me, hoping that lowering the number of words now means paying attention. Greetings to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and to those who represent the attention of MIT. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u55	The general debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u56	Mr President, the result of political government action must be assessed on the basis of the conditions given and on the matter the conditions given are as follows: an existing convention, approved in 2008 by a Parliament in which none of the current members of the majority voted in favour; instead, it was voted by important personalities and by parties that are in opposition today. That agreement was in favour of the concessionaire both for the general conditions and, even more so, for the compensation clause in the event of termination. At the same time, taking into account therefore a convention of this kind, there was and there is the need to intervene, given the tragic and unacceptable episode of Genoa and the evident lack of monitoring and maintenance that in recent years there has been, also in virtue of the convention to which I referred before. The solution found avoids the risk of a losing litigation for the country for an amount that could vary between 7 and 23 billion; avoids the risks of job loss, impoverishment of know-how of a company; avoids the difficulties in the takeover of the new dealer; at the same time, guarantees the acceptance of the rates established by the ART. I say this to a colleague who spoke about tariffs earlier as if they were unfair tariffs: these are tariffs that come out of a calculation made by the Transport Regulatory Authority. Not only that, there is acceptance of a mechanism for the remuneration of investments only after they have been made and not before, because the convention, so favourable and advantageous, even provided that investments could be paid before they were made and maybe even when they were not made. It won't happen again. EUR 14.5 billion of new investments are expected; EUR 7 billion for maintenance, which is very much needed, as the Senator of Alphonsus said a moment ago, which I thank; EUR 3.4 billion for compensation in various forms. Finally, another important thing, through a financial mechanism whose main driver is Cash deposits and loans, allows to determine a gradual and total exit of the current property (other priority of the debate of this phase). That is, if a result is to be assessed in the given conditions, I think I can say that under the conditions given by the Government and the majority have achieved an excellent result, perhaps the best possible result. That is why I am expressing the following opinions on the motions so far received. I object to Senator Salvini's first-signed motion No 257. I object to Senator Ciriani's first-signed motion 261. I am in favour of motion 265 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator Cioffi. I take the contrary view on the premises of Senator Bernini's motion No 271 and the favourable opinion on points 1 and 5 thereof, if the following rewordings are accepted: in point 1, I would like to insert, after the words: "to make clarity": "on the time of implementation of the agreement announced by the Government" (in point 5, I would like to replace the words: "to provide" with the words: "to ask CONSOB to provide" (by leaving the rest of point 5 in accordance with what has already been written).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u57	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. I inform you that we will not interrupt, so we will go on until 3 p.m., both with this measure and with the next one.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u60	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to try to look a little wider at this issue, hoping that Parliament will consider the issue of concessions as a whole and not always just look at detail. On August 14, 2018, the Morandi Bridge collapsed, causing 43 deaths and 566 displaced persons, huge economic damage and enormous image damage for the entire Nation. From this episode has emerged an unacceptable situation that concerned the highway concessions, but in general the concessions in Italy, with enormous revenues for the concessionaires, maintenances not made, investments not made and scalloped agreements under which the concessionaire, even if it does not respect its part of contract, is not subjected to any penalty or particular situation, indeed, if the State wanted to withdraw the concession for non-compliance, should recognize to the concessionaire all the missed revenues from the moment of the revocation until the end of the concession. A completely crazy situation, of which there are many responsibilities and are diluted over the years, but one thing is certain: a situation emerged in its drama following the collapse of the Morandi bridge as sick, which should have led to the immediate withdrawal of concessions. Following such a serious situation, all over the world, from Samoa to Chile, from South Africa to Iceland, the motorway concessions would be lifted. Not in Italy. In Italy the motorway concessions remained at the head of the same responsible dealership, we do not know if criminally but certainly as dealership, of the collapse of the bridge. The government has decided to leave the dossier in the drawer and not to face it, except then find itself, close to the necessity of opening the new bridge of Genoa, to have to assign it to someone and to have to do, therefore, a Council of Ministers during the night: having not faced the problem in the two previous years, has tried to face it in one night. Was this a good way to handle the situation? It would seem not, because the securities of Atlantia, the main shareholder of the concession, which had collapsed following a fearful revocation announced by the Government, then splashed upwards and returned to the levels prior to the declaration, when the agreement was closed. So it is difficult to think that the investors on the planet misunderstand the new agreement and that those who claim that the agreement penalises the current shareholders in a particular way are right. More likely to think that the agreement is very beneficial to the current shareholders. Yet it was an opportunity to address the issue of concessions even with a historical view. Allow me this parallelism: the opposition between the blocs has fallen, we have witnessed, in the Soviet Union, the birth of the oligarchs, that is, the private individuals to whom it was assigned, by virtue of particular relations with politics, the granting of the exploitation of oil wells and, by virtue of this concession, the Russian oligarch became multi-billionaire. We have always said that this was a form of sick capitalism. A form of capitalism so sick that Putin himself, at the beginning of his second term in 2004, declared war on the oligarchs, saying that the oil wells are Russians and not private property of the oligarch. In Italy, the opposition between the blocs ended, and with the weakness of politics, exactly the same thing happened. Between the end of the 1990s and the beginning of the 2000s, we witnessed privatisations: local oligarchs were given the local oil wells, with the highways given to Benetton and the sale of Eni and Telecom, a phenomenon in which parallelism is total. During the period of concession of the highways, the profit collected and largely converted into dividends for the shareholders is of 10 billion. Abramovich's estimated assets are 10 billion: this is it. We delivered our oil wells to Italian economic lobbyists and potentates, with agreements that did not go to reward the public interest, but simply went to make extra profits for the usual known ones. That was the problem that we, as a nation, should have faced the day after the collapse of the Morandi bridge, which we did not. Brothers of Italy is the last party that can be accused of sympathy with the Benettons; however, directing all the faults of what happened to the single property seems almost the game of those who want not to face the problem, dramatic, of concessions in Italy, which concern not only those motorway routes, but also others, that entirely concern our strategic infrastructures, that concern the airports, that concern all this system sick of bogus privatizations, that have given systems of monopoly on public goods to make profit to the private ones. This we should have faced and this the Government has not faced and this the Government continues not to face. What were we supposed to do? Clear all concessions. Revocation of the concession of highways, but not only: zeroing of all the concessions present in Italy and new race, with rules that respect our rule of law, because the Court of Auditors, the Council of State, the Constitutional Court, in several phases, have declared that the current concessions existing in Italy do not respect the basic rules of Italian law. There is no civil law contract which provides that one of the Contractors may not comply with its part of the contract. So, banally the concessions are null; banally, the motorway concessions can be revoked, which has not been done. In 2018, Brothers of Italy presented a resolution asking, on the basis of strategic infrastructure, to introduce the principle of protection of national interest. It is regrettable that then Minister Toninelli expressed his opposition and that the resolution was rejected. We have tried to resubmit this principle with this motion: Brothers of Italy asks that, in essence, with our infrastructure and with our concessions, what happens in all the rest of the world and that puts in place anyone who wants to protect his own interest. Firstly, we call for public ownership of strategic infrastructure; this is the case with Autostrade, but this is not the case, for example, with the telecommunications network. We also call for public or private management of public-owned infrastructure, but with the safeguard clause of national interest. If the President gives me only 30 seconds, I will try to summarize these points. We ask that for a private concession there be an objective and certified advantage for the State over the direct management of the State, we ask that national security be guaranteed through the obligation for the managers to have the registered office and tax in Italy, we ask the possibility of unilateral resolution by the State in case of serious defaults (this should be a banality) and finally we ask that there be the obligation, for the contractor, to reinvest in the infrastructure not only what is already provided for by the contract, but also everything that exceeds 15% of the net profit (and we go to explain to our entrepreneurs that a net profit is acceptable of 50-60 percent, as happens for our dealers). We call for this to be approved. In our view, the only way to put an end to this shame of plundering on our strategic infrastructures is to revoke all concessions and to announce new tenders on the basis of serious and certain contracts. The good guys are gonna get it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u63	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today we are dealing with a particular issue, which has invested and still invests the fate of our country on several fronts. In almost two years we have found ourselves having to set up not only an infrastructure, that of the Morandi bridge, necessary to the city of Genoa and to the whole of Liguria, but also to face the implications of a sudden economic crisis, that, united to the block of a fundamental artery of development also for one of the most important ports of Italy, can be fatal for families and enterprises. A few weeks after the reopening of the bridge to the public, we still have to discuss whether it is more convenient to continue to frame the public machine in an endless vortex of bureaucracy and time of the judiciary or to opt, dare I say in a more intelligent way, for a clear reassignment of responsibilities and a rapid lightening of those procedures that currently block the entire country. It is true, we have made giant steps, preparing in emergency measures of rapidization for many fundamental infrastructural works, as moreover we of Italy Viva had already anticipated with the plan shock introduced to the Government in times not suspicious. But now, beyond everything, it is time to demonstrate not only to Italy, but to the whole of Europe, that it is possible to renew and restart. Now we can no longer stay at home, but above all I would say that we can no longer continue, in a simplistic way, to insist on sending someone home, allowing the continuation of situations intended solely to invoke the procedure of revocation of the concession to ASPI, without considering anything else. The operation, perhaps from the media point of view, seemed effective, but then, in our opinion, it was not as satisfactory during the mediation negotiations, limiting its apparent strength very much. Colleagues, we still do not have, although we can imagine it, a complete definition of the bureaucratic scenario that could be envisaged in the event of the withdrawal of the concession. To date no process has been speeded up and no new investments and upgrades have been made to which the concessionaire was required. Up to this moment only the difficulties of the citizens and of the Liguria Region are constant, that is found submerged from a situation of extreme difficulty in the programming of the intense activities for the improvement of own infrastructures, thus blocking in fact both the transport of the goods, and the tourism, and adding to these damages those provoked from the epidemiological emergency Covid-19, that unfortunately seems to last longer than due. While the projections of GDP plummet, we continue somewhere with a useless pull and spring, giving rise to an almost infinite dischargebarile, rather than putting before our own responsibilities those who so far had the obligation to maintain and innovate our arteries of asphalt. Download barrel, yes, because we do not have an immediate perspective on what will happen in the future on the issue of concessions or we do not want to realize it. In the face of any new inconveniences that might affect our infrastructure, we would allow a new, hypothetical and presumed concessionaire to spend additional public money to repair the damage caused by others earlier, thus freeing the so infamous lobby from a huge responsibility, doing almost a favor to those who have been negligent in the past. It is necessary to put in hand a package of extraordinary measures that will allow the whole economy to restart with the unblocking, albeit in the mores of the agreements, of the investments already programmed and authorized from ASPI, in order not to delay ulteriorly in the necessary evolution of our infrastructures, that they can no longer wait for the lengths of the bureaucracy and the indecisions of the politics, that instead it must take charge of every decision. In order to prevent this economic and health emergency from turning into an economic and social disaster and going beyond 10% of the decrease in GDP expected by financial observers, the infrastructure investment sector must be adapted, strengthening the already planned installation of the extraordinary commissioners, who directly managing the procedures with special powers, as happened for Expo Milano 2015 and, more recently, it happened with the Morandi bridge, but which should now be part of an ordinary regulatory framework, can simplify that pachydermic mass of bureaucratic passages, allowing a rapid start of work with new employment opportunities, which finally give the country the opportunity to recover economically and dignifiedly. We have said this in all the sauces in recent months: we will succeed, but we will succeed only in the face of an ambitious programme, not a selfish vision of politics, but in the face of a future that is already present and is given by already authorized and funded works. It is an important signal to send to the country to make understand that politics today can and must put aside a substantially sterile discussion, such as that of a continuous negotiation for new dealers, when it is necessary with seriousness and keeping intact any level of security, put in front of the real responsibilities who is already able to operate, while implementing all possible controls and checks and intervening with every measure allowed by the laws in force. There are too many works that have long been immemorial in our country and it is time that the entire Government can finally give a steering to this current of immobilism, starting precisely from Liguria, freeing the difficulties that afflict the restart and granting the green light to a fundamental project for this Region. I am referring here to the adaptation of the road and motorway junction of Genoa including the Grunda, so we hope that the unitary project provided for by the Convention will be followed, with the immediate conclusion of the road blocks currently affecting the Region. That would be 65 kilometers which would lighten traffic in a highly stressed area. I say this first of all to myself and then to all my colleagues of majority and minority, with whom we work tirelessly to make our young people see a better hope of the future: let us not waste any more time, wavering on the shoulders of a political and bureaucratic monster that has devoured our public accounts and allowed the occurrence of these tragic events that in a country should not exist. We all have the only interest in raising Italy, families, private and public enterprises and, not least, the workers behind the scenes of these great works to risk their lives, men who do not want to live on livelihoods, but who demand dignity. That dignity that can only come from work, that if well done and paid, makes them feel proud to have contributed, each in his own small, to the improvement of society. Let us not waste these sacrifices and, in the name of those who strive for the healthy growth of Italy, we ask the Government to evaluate with attention and interest and put into practice the proposals of the majority motion discussed today, including the demands of all for the good governance of Italy, and confident that even the proposals of Italy Viva-PSI have an adequate response, we declare our vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u66	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I think it was also a good thing that the motions for resolutions concerning the Autostrade affair were debated today, because so in this House we had the opportunity to have a debate on this absolutely necessary issue. This was also said a moment ago by the colleague of the Fratelli d'Italia Group and I say immediately on the premise that it is evident to all - for years we have been asking the question of the system of motorway concessions in our country - that we are talking about the management of an absolutely public good, which has built, in all these years of the system of huge profits concessions in the hands of dealers. I would also like to remind you that we have even had the case of concessions (there are many concessions) whose conventions even had the omissis, that is, even we Members were unable to see and verify all the clauses. I want to stress this, because I agree that we need to go ahead with the verification and not just with a general check, but with a thorough review of the concession system. On the specific case of ASPI, we are all well aware of what has happened, but I would also like to remind you of the debate on this. The debate that had animated the previous Government, with the very strong resistances that one of the participants of the majority of the Government were placed with respect to the hypothesis of revocation for the very serious events happened. We also know that, in the continuation of the debate, many of those who now tear their clothes to pieces on the agreement that has been reached and which is the subject of these motions, recriminating that it has not been fully implemented the revocation, are the same ones who thundered for days, throughout this period, against the possibility of revocation. For the truth, we continue to feel the accents of a sort of incredible prejudice on the state's presence in the management of highways and also a prejudice that is completely ideological against the very idea of public company. On the merits, I believe that it was - and we have assessed it and we want to judge it again - an absolutely positive agreement for the public interest, because that is what we have to assess. It is in the first place because from the point of view of the corporate structure the immediate transition from the control of ASPI to a participant, as is precisely the Cassa depositi e loani, through the subscription of an increase of reserved capital by Cassa depositi e loani and the purchase of participatory shares by institutional investors, but that must also be these of liking of Cassa depositi e loani, therefore with the disposal up to 88 percent by the ASPI within Atlantia and within ASPI itself. From this point of view, therefore, there is a solution that I believe is absolutely important and also beneficial for the public interest. I'm coming to the other story. These two years have been marked by litigation and appeals. This is also true of the intervention within the thousandprorogation decree, because there had even been an appeal to contest the legitimacy of Article 35. Well, the transaction foresees, meanwhile, a waiver of litigation and appeals themselves, as well as compensatory measures, exclusively borne by ASPI, for an amount of approximately 4.5 billion euros. I am saying this because here too we have heard that the figure was not adequate, but I would always modestly like to remind you that in the debate we had at this time the accusation was that every time we wanted to charge a huge penalty to the state, even talking about 17 billion, these were the accusations. In this case, however, the advantage from the point of view of the transaction is that of compensatory measures. The other important thing concerns the issue of safety, which is the other element completely uncovered on the system of concessions and in particular in the case of ASPI, which, among other things, holds an absolutely significant and major share of the highway system. The investigation by the judiciary is under way and we will all see the results, but it is clear to everyone what the shortcomings that have been absolutely obvious from the point of view of controls and security have been. The strengthening of controls against the dealer is certainly one of the fundamental elements of this agreement, as well as the increase of sanctions in the event of infringements, even minor, by the dealer himself. As you can see, we are faced with a settlement agreement which is very much in line with what was necessary for the protection of the public interest. Also on toll rates there is an absolutely necessary commitment that concerns ASPI, but that must also cover other motorway concessions. The commitments made by Senator Cioffi in motion 265, at the first signing and signed by us, are certainly important and I would like to remind them: it is not only a matter of following up the agreement and what has been decided by the Council of Ministers, but of working to continue on the road of a very tight monitoring of the dealership, even during all these stages of transaction and implementation of the agreement, and above all of ensuring the immediate implementation of the essential interventions for the safety. Of course this is about the ASPI case, but - for us this is very important - I believe that this transaction and the whole discussion carried out also following the investigations that there have been in this period of time on the lack of maintenance and safety goes to start quickly to a general program of maintenance of all the infrastructures entrusted to concession. I believe that this is, as far as we are concerned, the main priority, so this transaction agreement is also fundamental in order to start in a determined way to put in place a great program of maintenance of the infrastructures, both those entrusted in concession and those not entrusted in concession. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, I announce the Group's vote in favour of motion 265 at the first signature of Senator Cioffi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u69	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I would like to express again pain, closeness and remembrance to the families hard hit on the tragic day of the fall of the Morandi Bridge. That pain still unites all the actors who had to deal with that story before, after and at any time (I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't feel pain). To respect the pain of those many families, we have the task of providing solutions for the future. So it is not necessary to participate in competitions in saying what would have been better to do or who is to blame today. We have only and exclusively the task of looking ahead and trying to understand how to complete a strategic operation for the management of those concessions. Today, therefore, we are here to decide on the basis of a complex activity, carried out by working groups created and determined before this Government took office. It is not serious on the part of some political forces to pretend nothing or that these things fall from nothing, because it gives the unpleasant feeling that the choices made at that time were made not to seek the truth, but to respond to the emotions of the moment, which is the ugliest thing. I love to think that those choices were made on the basis of a positive solution. Well, the work done positively has revealed serious shortcomings and failures, as well as important criticalities in the management of that concession. Hence the solution we know and the agreement we are talking about. So the theater of propaganda and these contradictory messages would not be the fruit of the will not to change anything and to perpetrate an error already committed, when that generous concession was renewed, strongly unbalanced in favor of the dealer. A short time ago, we heard from the Undersecretary Margiotta some terms of that concession, then revised by the Authority of regulation of the transports. On the contrary, we support the choice that the Government is making, which is eminently industrial and innovative policy, in some respects, even if it arises from a tragic fact and studded with divisions and divergences. If, however, under the aegis of the State, some parties acquire a company in a strategic sector and if through this management they can buy and sell the shares, involve many other institutional investors and quote themselves on the stock exchange, then also guarantee a certain contestability, and maybe in the future even escape, I think it is difficult to find a different and more convenient solution to make this system work and guarantee all those who invest now and will invest in the future. At certain times, as in what we are experiencing, extraordinary measures like these probably do the good of the country and of those who invest and have to cross these highways. It is in everyone's eyes that this is the best opportunity to overcome the set-up that has not guaranteed the things I am referring to and that above all will ensure a balance that only this type of solution can ensure. In a given period or in the presence of certain conditions, such as those we have seen on this concession, it is not wrong that the State intervenes and enters the companies in order to start a different job than in the past; indeed, it is the State that guarantees a certain degree of reliability and profitability of the investments from all (I think above all those that they will invest in pension funds). We are therefore faced with a historical phase in which it is not wrong to do this. I hear colleagues who legitimately have doubts about the statistication. I remember, however, that in other countries, governed by the family of the European People's Party, the workers even participate in the boards of directors (I think of Germany). If that is not statization, why should that be in our country, which is a completely different operation? The question is whether the State returns to the entrepreneur and is said to be the worst sign to all institutional entrepreneurs. Why is that? Are all investors supposed to behave like the dealer in recent years? I don't think so. In fact, those investors will be guaranteed by the presence, not even so important (we are talking about about 30%) of public subjects. It is exactly the opposite of what has been said and it is the clearest and most obvious affirmation of the public interest, which I believe to be a fact of cultural value at a historical stage such as the one we are experiencing. But then - it is another question to be answered - are we throwing away the money of the Italians for an ideological operation? I had fun seeing the quotes this morning in the last few years of ASPI. I find it hard to imagine which of us would not invest in those results, which will now also be guaranteed by the State. It is difficult to get lost in an operation that guarantees a high quality of business. But the very fact that it is the State that takes on the commitment to make a motorway concession work in the best way is already a good investment; we must not think only of the remuneration of capital which, at the time of listing on the stock exchange, for that high level of floating that will be at stake, is in things. I am surprised by some of the statements made in this House, which do not recognise the high value of the placing on the market of shares and quotations that concern an already profitable subject, but guaranteed in the management by the reliability and credibility of the State. Cash deposits and loans (a very negatively designed entity, whose statutes provide for operations of this nature and therefore is not even an abstruse to these market operations) will certainly make an economic intervention that will be remunerated in an infrastructure able to function also thanks to the commitment of the State. I'm going to conclude. The operation - I repeat - will also guarantee the business continuity of all the companies involved and of all that incredible plurality of shareholders involved in the various companies we are talking about. It is, therefore, an operation that guarantees everyone: not only the future perspective of the motorway concession, but also all those who today have economic interests in the various societies we are talking about and also Atlantia. It is a guarantee that only State intervention could give. This is a very important value of economic stability. In fact, that would be enough to say that the attention of international investors is drawn to the operation that we are carrying out, with the guarantee that we are giving to everyone. If everything goes in the direction we want, next spring we will have this new entity that will hold around 30% of the capital, qualified international investors and a high floating, to which I have referred, from many investors. The public direction of the operation, the different ownership structure, the sure correctness of the investments in safety, the system of guarantee for the users and the profitableness of the investments are values that the operation will guarantee and that will certainly be assumed as good management of the interests of the Italians and - if you allow - also of their money. For this reason, the Democratic Party Group will support the majority motion, tabled at the first signature of Senators Cioffi, D'Arienzo, Vono and De Petris. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u72	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, if the story of Autostrade wasn't real, it would really want to set up a theatrical play, with a surprise finale, among other things: you never know who is the killer in the yellows or in the theatrical plays. This time we know: the killer is a piece of the majority and the victim is the other piece. In fact, as always, Italian citizens are victims. In the political sphere, in the end, it is also necessary to simplify to explain to the Italians what happened. It is clear that the logic of statization of the productive system was one of the central themes of the battle that, in 1994, Forza Italia promoted against those political forces that, until the day before, ruled our country. The anti-state logic that we have promoted is the one that has rewarded us because the Italians have understood the logic of entrusting to the State an exclusive function of control in the field of the productive activities, not a management in the first person. The State must be the guarantee element; it can certainly have a participation, but the management and control of the enterprises must be entrusted to those who do business, therefore to the private sector. The State can be a part of it; it can be a guarantee element, but it is the private person who must properly manage the country's production system. From there, everything that happened in the past, with the sale of state jewelry or grandmother's gold teeth, as happened by Mr Prodi on the issue of the IRI, who gave those jewels for some change to the various national entrepreneurs, if that is what they can call them. It is clear that this was not a privatisation; it was a regalia of important enterprises that had been employed within the Institute of Industrial Reconstruction, which also made sense when it was realized. It had a foundation; it had a logic that at that specific historical moment worked. Today we are in a similar situation, but it does not have any basis. Let's try to sum it up. Unfortunately, the Morandi bridge collapses, dozens and dozens of victims; all immediately ready to take responsibility for the manager and, while justice will take its course, it is clear that this is the case. All ready for the withdrawal of motorway concessions for just cause to a subject who has been managing them for decades. Not only that. A few weeks ago, the Supreme Court said he was right not to entrust the reconstruction to him. I thought it was an important leap of justice, which would surely have been caught as a ball by the Government, in particular by the President of the Count Council, in the negotiation phase, to revoke the motorway concession for just cause. Obviously, in fact, if you go behind the logic of the Consulta, which says that it has done well not to give the contract for the reconstruction of the bridge to those who in fact did not control, causing, consequently, the fall, it goes by analogy that we probably would not have had as a State - we are all part of this structure and we respect the rules and contents - problems of various appeals or, if we had had them, we would probably have won again for the revocation of the highway concession. In the meantime an event has happened almost worse than the revocation, that is the constitution of the Government Conte- bis. I'm talking about Count with a c and not a bridge. The Count-a is almost worse than the revocation because one of the most significant components of the new Executive is the historical sponsor of those who managed the concessions until yesterday. I said it nicely to Mr Cioffi even a little while ago. Dear friends of the majority, there are two actors who have brought home the loaf: one is the Benetton family, which, between risings and lowerings, the market has put back in belly a lot of money - as long as it is the market with serious logic and democratic, I have nothing to say because they are for the pure market, but we do not tell that they have put us back - and the other is the Democratic Party, which won the battle. Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, what revocation are we talking about? This is where we move on, and the bridge is managed by these. In addition, we take 3.4 billion allowances for the collapse. ASPI must pay 3.4 billion and, in the meantime, Cassa deposits and loans makes the capital increase of equal amount. Nobody's a fool. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go on, we get it. The concept was very clear. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). I'm going on, though, until it flashes. Mr President, every time I speak in this House, you and I always have this friendly and friendly confrontation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go on. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). I want to add more. We're also together in families, but we don't always have the same opinions. The logic of motorway concessions must necessarily be put to safeguard, as a concession and not a gift. The difference between gift and concession is substantial. The concession is put to tender; agreements and agreements are not made; we are going to tender. [[Applause.]] If we had gone to competition, probably the actions of Atlantia would have dropped resoundingly, we would have had the obligation of revocation, supported by a judgment of the Consulta that would have said that we were doing well, the money of the postal booklets of our Italian fellow citizens and pensioners would not have been thrown into a cauldron that only benefits someone and we would have had the confidence that the successful tenderer would have been a professional who would have guaranteed maintenance. Nobody, in fact, approaches the management of a motorway without knowing its characteristics, rules and functionality. Only for the fact that they have made fun of us for years - in the last six months for the renewal of concessions we have had work and highway blocks throughout the national territory - these should be kicked and kicked out; we must not give them 4 billion for refreshment and make them grow 25% in one night, in open markets with the statements of the President of the Council, filling their pockets with money. This is a shame for which you are responsible and once again, dear five stars, they have lied to you. You know what's the most serious thing? Those who are lying are the Italians, who once again look at your inability to govern. We shall vote against all your proposals for a motion that goes in that direction and of course we shall vote in favour of our motion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u75	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are here to discuss motions and an important subject, but I guarantee that even today, since 7 am, Liguria has been frozen and blocked. Motorways are still and it is impossible to reach 80% of our Region for those arriving from outside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I associate myself with his cry of pain, because I have experienced it firsthand in the Ligurian streets. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, I will tell you one of yesterday that I personally lived: coming down from Milan to go to Liguria the transit recommended by Milan was to go to Turin and go down to the other side, because you could not reach Genoa. I am talking about a motorway, the A26, which is the most important link between the Po Valley and what is beyond the Po Valley, so Mitteleuropa, the Ligurian coast, France and Spain, because the main transit takes place through that highway, which is unworkable. The same thing applies to the A10: the gates closed now for a long time to the west of the city of Genoa, from Genoa airport to arrive until Arenzano, prevent the normal influx from west to the city of Genoa, that is to say they prevent the port of Genoa to function and the city of Genoa to receive that tourist impulse that had received in a meaningful way in the last few years. We are completely on the ground from all points of view and damage to the economy, tourism, portualità and to every type of transport are not quantifiable. See that for us Ligurians blocking tourism, in addition to the problem of the Covid and with the current system of motorways, is something unsustainable. More: foreign tourism is completely absent. The other day appeared - I say smiling - a sign oriented to the German and Swiss tourists who were willing to come to Genoa to visit the aquarium, where it was written to reach Genoa going to Barcelona and take the ferry. It was a joke sign, but unfortunately real. [[Applause]] In this situation there is certainly a political responsibility: I say this again without doing too much history, because history is past water, but this teaches us what it means the absence of a work like the Grunda, which could have been built at the beginning of the nineties, if it had not already anticipated then that political framework that is still present today. I am referring to a left that ruled the city of Genoa in alliance with a party of the Greens, to a split within the majority and to a vote against that blocked at the beginning of those years the creation of an infrastructural work that was then called "bretella," today is called Grunda and that is still not there. Then there were the greens; today there is someone else. However, I must recognize to the Democratic Party a signal of coherence, a great coherence, demonstrated in all the years in which the lefties have administered the city of Genoa and that it has been demonstrated in the ten years of the administration of left Burlando of the Liguria Region: a total freezing; nothing is done; you could not give a picket nowhere, because if you go in the direction of growing that Region, you go to break the boxes you do not understand well to what or to whom. Even today, this situation of coherence emerges. In fact, the candidate for the Presidency of the Liguria Region, a few days ago, as soon as the candidate of PD and 5 Stars was identified, asked about the Grunda said: we have to reflect on the Grunda, we have to evaluate. But what do you need to think about and what do you need to evaluate? [[Applause]] It is a region on its knees, demolished by the inability to make choices. In fact, on other equally important issues, such as the tunnel of the Fontanabuona, not a single word has been uttered; it is not even mentioned. Look, today is also the right day to discuss these issues. This morning, Mr Undersecretary, your Minister for Infrastructure is in Genoa and has not been so well received, not by politics, not by initiatives of centre-right parties, the League or anything else. It was welcomed by spontaneous demonstrations aimed at sending it back, because it is a shame the attitude of the Government regarding choices that must be made, but that never arrive. Today Genoa is further blocked for spontaneous initiatives caused by the presence in Genoa of a Minister of this Government. Or, perhaps Minister De Micheli came to Genoa to present the candidate for the Presidency of the Region of PD and the 5 Stars who does not want to make the Grunda? [[Applause.]] I say this to the friends of the PD: have you sent a minister of yours to Genoa to present a candidate who does not want to hear about Grunda? Is this the political will you want to express for the future of Liguria? We have all talked about the Genoa model; we have seen it and lived it within this Assembly; we have lived it every day we have been in Genoa, this year and more, for the reconstruction of the bridge. I will never finish thanking the then Deputy Minister Rixi, as well as the President of the Region and Commissioner Bucci for what they did for the city, because they had the tools made available at national level, but they had the courage and the ability to beat their fists on the table and make choices. But not the choices you're getting used to, but the choice to build a bridge quickly. I live a model Genoa convincedly, and there is little to laugh: once they said that rice abounds, I don't remember where anymore. [[Applause]] The Genoa model, what you want to disassemble by blocking every type of work, is the model of development, of the Grunda immediately because it can be done; it is the model of doing and of not to excessive bureaucracy; it is the model of the revision of the code of contracts. This is the reflection that so many Ligurians make. Think of what would have happened if there had been a left-wing mayor to manage the reconstruction of the Morandi bridge; perhaps Mayor Doria, who was there before Mayor Bucci: we would still be there to collect the rubble, as the failure of the left-wings at regional and municipal level was great. I shall begin by concluding my explanation of vote. The League Group will vote in favour of the motions of the centre-right, therefore of our motion, that of the Brothers of Italy and that of Forza Italia. We are sorry, and I say this with open arms, that the Group of Italy Viva, who had tabled a motion whose mechanism was to leave with the work of the Grunda, withdrew the motion. Once again a shameful maneuver within the majority, where you withdraw what you think to remain attached to the wagon, to a government, to an armchair. [[Applause]] And on the basis of that armchair is sacrificed also an important work like the Grunda. We will vote against the motion of the Democratic Party and of the 5 Stars because it does not give satisfaction to Liguria and does not give a positive signal at the national level and demonstrates the fact that Liguria is lived by this Government a bit like the margin of the Conte empire, like the extreme border. We spoke in three of the League Group, three of Ligurians. No Ligurian majority has signed a motion and no one has spoken in this House. [[Applause]] Perhaps because the majority of Ligurians are ashamed of what this government is doing, of how it is contracting. I am not even here when we are talking about this issue. But with what courage, then, will they have the ability or the will to present... [[Protests]] I feel a lot of heat over there, President. It means maybe it burns. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u76	Conclude, Senator, you can't count someone else's presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u77	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). That heat means something's burning. [[Protests.]] Burn something if this heat comes out over there.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u78	Senator Pilgrims, I'll call you back to order. Senators Ripamonti and Pilgrims, I call you to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u79	Conclude, Senator Bruzzone, because he's out of time. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I should like to end by saying that I did not intend to provoke. I was provoked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, let me decide that. You're welcome. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). The absence of the Ligurian government shows that perhaps they are ashamed of the choices, or of the non-choices, of this government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u82	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, listening to the content, the content and the warmth of all these statements, I would like to remind myself, because the House is certainly aware of them, which I think De Gasperi is dead. It seems to me that Einaudi died too, if I remember correctly, that Einaudi who said that before deciding you must know, so before talking you should study, deepen and know, when talking, what you talk about. [[Applause]] In fact, a lot of things should be remembered when you talk like that. We could say a lot but to begin with we would like to remember, for example, that in 2008 the motorway concessions that were, as we have all said, privatised in 1999, were magically incorporated into a single convention through a law. I think it was the Berlusconi Government, if I recall correctly. [[Applause]] It seems to me that it was supported by Forza Italia, the League and also by Alleanza Nazionale. It seems to me that one minister of the time was called Tremonti and that the other was called Matteoli. But with that magical legal transformation it was said that Articles 9 and 9-a were inserted in the convention, that famous article that provided for this great expansion of the compensation in case of revocation, while instead the same Freeways for Italy - we also have a document that we can show to the public - provided for the hypothesis of early termination of the concessions in question if serious failures occur. That was what Autostrade said for Italy in 2006: he did not say it after 2008. But look at how strange the world is, how strange the things that happen. And why do so many things happen? Before I heard Senator Mallegni talk about State versus Private, which opens a big talk about what the State means and what private means. He said it was private that had to do things. However, I wonder: if you generate such high profits - because those provided for in the concession are huge profits - is it right that you place them in private quarters or is it right that they be redistributed through the public? [[Applause]] This is the theme. I agree - as our Constitution also says - that private initiative is free, but the issue is what a private individual can and must do. He must do what is right, not what is unjust. We read so much data that, if you want, then I can show you, among which those contained in the document that I hold, that is to say the economic-financial plan of 1997, that was placed at the base of the privatization: in particular, for 2018 revenues were expected for 1.7 billion, but, if we see the next plan, that is the real data, the figure of 1.7 billion has become 3,9, so the revenues have more than doubled. Staff expenditures, compared with the forecast figure of 350 million on 2018, fell to 270 million, so they decreased and maintenance, for which expenditure was expected to be 249 billion, reached 270 billion. So they double the revenues, maintenance is flat, and the cost of labor is falling. What does all this mean? It means that concession was an abomination. That is where the state must intervene. The state must be strong, it must have the courage to assert the supremacy of citizens and users against any private company that is interested in it, when the interest is too high. [[Applause]] No one says that the private should not have a profit, there would be nothing else, but, when the profits are so stratospheric, there is only one possibility, that is to say that the stratospheric profits fit the public to redistribute them, otherwise all this does not make sense, it is madness and it is certainly not the liberal system that so much the Berlusconi Government spoke of, when it was said liberal government. [[Applause]] That was liberticide. It wasn't being liberal. Silvio Berlusconi was the greatest traitor to liberal ideals in this country [[Applause. Comments]] And that is what those who refer to liberal ideals must say, because they have done the opposite of what a liberal would do. [[Applause. Comments.]] You have to tell yourself that, okay? Then what else do we want to talk about? Privatizations? State? The state also does the right things and I quote only one. The State Property Agency has been brought as excellence in Europe for customs clearance directly on board: we are better. Yes, we are the best, we can teach the world these things, and this is what the State does, because the State Property Agency is the State. Do we want to talk about the privatizations of that time? Do we want to remember what was done with Telecom when Telecom was bought in debt twice? Telecom today has 25 billion euros of debt. Where have all these gentlemen been talking today for the last 20 years? Where were they? Did you magically appear? So, "Puff!" [[Applause. Comments.]] You appeared as if you didn't exist before, as if you never existed before. [[Comments]] Shut up! You weren't here before; you were in another place. [[Comments.]] Guys, it's useless for you to be disappointed: the convention you approved, eh, it's not that I approved it. The Movimento 5 Stars wasn't there.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u83	Senator Cioffi, speak to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u84	CIOFFI (M5S). I can also address you, Mr President. On the other hand, you were Minister of that Government, so you will also remember what we are talking about. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the Presidency and try not to create the conditions for reaction. CIOFFI (M5S). For God's sake, it's just experimental evidence. Then there are issues: there was much talk of Liguria, there was talk of problems, there was talk of poor maintenance. Fortunately, we reported all this in 2017 and presented an exhibit to the DAC to announce - for example - the lack of transparency. Then the acts were fortunately made public. There are so many issues that we can talk about quietly, and started with the Court of Auditors' report. I think that the Court of Auditors, as usual, should be trusted when it tells us (I read it): "Anac has found that maintenance expenditure represents a low percentage. Indeed, it amounts to 2.2% of what is foreseen by the economic and financial plan. 2.2 percent of the amount of the economic and financial plan for maintenance is a bit of a laugh. If the Court of Auditors says so, it seems to me to be serious. The Court of Auditors adds: "For the same reasons, the Audit Section of the Court of Auditors, in 1997, had to declare the most important concession unlawful.' That custody was illegitimate and it took a law to heal that illegality. [[Applause]] That is what we are talking about today. Who did it? Did Prodi do it? That thing was illegitimate, boys; if you didn't do the law, it wouldn't have happened. [[Comments]] Guys, it's no use talking. The Movimento 5 Stars wasn't there, all right? And since we weren't there, while we're here now, let's try to advance the collective interest, the supreme interest of citizens and users. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u85	Continue your intervention, Senator Cioffi. Senator Caliendo, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u86	CIOFFI (M5S). Speaking for example of Liguria, we have certainly heard that the problem of Genoa's node must be solved. In our motion, when we speak of the solution of the Genoa node, we mean that work carried out for functional lots with the immediate start of the doubling of the A7. We're talking about the way you do - yes - the gutting, but doing it right. That is the difference, dear President. After so many years we still hear today talking about doing things like they said in an old commercial that appeared on television, during which a person with a purse said: "The economy flies with you." Do you remember that? Spending money: spending money is ineffective. And since an old law, which seems to me to be the Galli law of 1994, established that management must be efficient, effective and economical - said the law, using three important and correct words - we must ensure that, when we spend money, we do it by maximizing efficiency. This means getting back to the cost-benefit analyses. [[Applause]] Most of the people in here who went to the government forgot about it. So what did we do? We simply put our hands back together, we did the checks, and we try to speed up the expenditure. That is what we are doing: nothing more and nothing less. When we say that the State is back in ASPI, with the increase in capital, it would be very interesting to understand the stock fluctuations that Senator Mallegni was talking about - I am beginning to conclude, Mr President - that are obviously daughters of financial speculation: that financial speculation that kills companies, markets and the country. And we may have to fight it. Do we have the strength to counter financial speculation? The Benettons saw their stock value fall from 28 euros per share to 14 euros per share. I challenge, so anyone who says the Benettons have earned it, because the numbers are numbers and can't be refuted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u87	Conclude, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u88	CIOFFI (M5S). The theme is that we have the courage to put things back on the ground; we think that the state can be strong; we think that the state can manage infrastructure in a neutral way, as already happens for example for Terna and Snam (to make two important examples of this country. And we think that the basic infrastructure of this country must be in the public hands, and we will also talk about fibre optic infrastructure. This is the objective we have: to have a vision in which the state is strong and the private, on that force, can do all the competition it wants, but never to the detriment of the citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u89	That concludes the explanations of vote. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote... [[Comments]] I'm reading an announcement. I didn't notice the signs. Please lower them and intervene. Lower the signs, but without all the acrimony to a sign that must be lowered. I didn't see them. Lower the signs with the writings. I didn't notice, and I apologize. Don't raise your voices. [[Comments]] I'm sorry I didn't notice. [[Comments]] The writings have been removed. The situation in Liguria remains. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Salvini and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion 257. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 261 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 265 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would remind you that the Government has requested the rewording of points 1) and 5) of motion 271 (text 2). I ask the presenters if they accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u90	Mr President, we accept the rewording and, in the light of this, we also call for a split vote, voting on points 1 and 5, and then on the premises and points 2, 3 and 4, on which the Government has expressed its opposition. We will of course vote in favour in both cases, unlike others.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u91	If you do not object to the proposal made by Senator Malan, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion by separate parties. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1) and 5 of motion 271 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 2, 3) and 4) of motion 271 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Motion No 274 has been withdrawn. With the agreement of all the groups, I suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.33 p.m. and resumed at 3.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u92	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00093 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Bonis and other Senators, 1-00262, tabled by Senator Cattaneo and other Senators, 1-00272, tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators, and 1-00276, tabled by Senator Centinaio and other Senators, on ESMA. I call Senator De Bonis to explain motion 93 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion that we are about to examine is of great importance to the health of Italians, because it calls on the Government to take further precautionary measures on cesium: a well-known molecule, a herbicide introduced on the market since 1974 by Monsanto, a multinational agricultural biotechnology company that has discovered its action as a broad-spectrum herbicide. However, the International Agency for Research on Cancer in 2015 has classified buprenorphine as a likely carcinogen for humans and, as such, has included it in a group of 66 substances at risk that can also act as endocrine disruptors. Scientific evidence attests to other health risks that consist of alteration of reproductive capacity, intestinal permeability, metabolic changes and functions of the nervous system. In essence, it is a harmful substance that hurts, especially to newborns and children. Our country therefore does not need any revisiting of the use of cesium, as proposed by someone. Yesterday the medical and scientific world was also clearly pronounced through the Italian Medical Association for the Environment (ISDE). Recent studies by the Ramazzini Institute have shown that the maltodextrin and its formulated Roundup produce the formation of mutagenicity, i.e. genotoxicity; they have androgenic effect and determine the increase of testosterone in the blood of both males and females, causing an alteration of the intestinal microbiota during the early stages of life. I am surprised that some of my colleagues are not aware of these studies. On the contrary, the reassuring assessments by the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (BFR) and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) of the unlikely carcinogenicity of the Pharmacopoeia are vitiated by both methodological deficiencies and conflicts of interest, calling into question the same credibility as EFSA. It is no coincidence that, as we discuss in the Senate, a few weeks ago Bayer, a German company that acquired Monsanto, had to settle with over $10 billion to close 95,000 lawsuits filed for serious health damage related to the use of herbicide. More than 97% of the foodstuffs marketed in our continent contain residues of maltodextrin. Signs have been found in the urine of 48 MEPs, breast milk, honey, beer and even vaccines. It is widely used in pre-harvesting in the United States and Canada in durum wheat crops to promote artificial ripening, to control the time of harvest and to optimize threshing, resulting in residues in the harvested wheat and the resulting sorghum. On the contrary, this use in Europe and Italy is not part of good agricultural practices. Yet Italy imports durum wheat from the United States and Canada for the mixing and production of semolina, pasta, bread and other bakery products that often contain residues of semolina. The free trade agreements obviously want to impose on Italian consumers, who are the world's largest consumers of cereal derivatives, the residues of these pesticides in breach of the precautionary principle. I, for having stated in the analysis that the presence of this marker was a sign of mixing between contaminated foreign grains and national grains free of maltodextrin, had to undergo various judgments for defamation in both civil and criminal matters, all of which so far ended - fortunately - favorably. Several tests carried out by the Granosalus and Salvatente associations on some Italian pasta and semolina brands have demonstrated the presence of the contaminant, even if within the limits of the law, even if in the Community and Italian market the provisions provide that from August 2016 this substance cannot be administered in pre-harvest in the wheat fields, thus introducing in fact a prohibition to its use (and therefore the disapplication of the limits provided for by EU Regulation 293/2013). Such prohibition paradoxically is not extended to the ships of foreign wheat, that, while presenting a level of residue within the limits previewed from the aforementioned regulation - as confirmation also the monitoring arranged from the Ministry of health - continues to land undisturbed to the Italian ports, generating moreover a restriction of the competition to the uncontaminated Italian product, therefore more precious and sought. Moreover, the controls carried out by the Central Inspection of the protection of the quality and repression of fraud (Icqrf) and by the offices of marine, aerial and frontier health (USMAF) on the ships moored to the port of Bari, but also in the other Italian ports, demonstrate that the analyses are numerically reduced; a documentary check prevails regarding the analytical one; the laboratories are often not accredited; the analyses are not visible to us parliamentarians, that we have asked for them in the Committee on Agriculture, and is championed only 5 or 6% of the ships, while during the period Covid there have been no control activities. Despite the fact that it is now acclaimed that it is a dangerous substance, the Commission has renewed for a further five years the authorisation, which expires between two years; after which, when stocks are exhausted, we hope that a definitive stop will become desirable for the use of this molecule. The last regulation was also the subject of an appeal lodged with the European Union by the association Granosalus, which carries out supervisory activities by statute aimed at ensuring the best quality of cereal products, including in terms of health, for the protection of producers and consumers. The association contested, on the one hand, the illegality of the implementing regulation for breach of the precautionary principle and for circumvention of the procedural provisions concerning the renewal of the approval of the substance, which was found to be based on scientific studies of doubtful origin not based on the principles of independence, objectivity and transparency; and, on the other hand, the lack upstream in the regulation itself of in-depth investigations into the impact of the use of the chicory on animals, groundwater and products intended for human consumption, such as bread and water. At national level, the Ministry of Health has not introduced any further precautionary measures with regard to the requirements laid down in the implementing regulations. This is why, with the motion in question, we want to commit the Government to suspend the effects of the statement of the Ministry of Health of December 2017, with which the renewal of the substance has been accepted for five years; to predict that the foreign grains, coming from areas where the climate requires the use of haddock, are subject to the Community precautionary principle provided for in Regulation (EU) No 1,313 of 2016, as transposed by the decree of the Ministry of Health of 9 August 2016, but never applied with clear circulars by the national leaders towards the USMAF peripheral offices; to issue a circular that bans the presence of countervailable in all the holds of imported wheat, even if it is cleared in other European ports, and to arrange, therefore, the intensification of the activities of control and monitoring through the withdrawal of samples from each hold in order to entrust them to accredited laboratories and making known the results of the analyses, with reference also to the commercial traffic and the connected operations in all the Italian harbour infrastructures, in particular in the ports of Puglia where it disembarks the majority of the ships containing durum wheat coming from Canada and the United States; all this with the aim to guarantee food safety, environmental and health. The motion also intends to commit the Government to promote, also through the instrument of the decree of urgency, regulatory interventions aimed at prohibiting the use and presence of the substance in food, as well as to discourage the purchase and use of foreign grains that are mixed with national durum wheat of excellent quality, distorting the quotations of the Italian market, as has also shown a decision of the TAR Puglia in 2019. Finally, it is intended to commit the Government to take all necessary precautionary measures on national territory to protect public health, as well as the health of the environment with specific reference to the protection of water, flora and fauna. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u94	I call Senator Cattaneo to explain motion 262.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first motion and I shall put it to your attention after thanking the Subscribers who agreed to the deposit: the Parent Company, Senator Unterberger, and the Members who added their signatures. My hope, with this motion, is that in this House and in Parliament as a whole, in the dialogue with the Government, a new practice can be established, starting from today's topic, which promotes the need to use scientific evidence as the basis for political discussions, in particular those very technical ones concerning health. I really feel the duty to simply ask you for this commitment, beyond any deployment, by investing the Government in this new way and the new method, precisely in the interests of everyone. Starting from evidence and evidence, being able to define their degree of certainty, means moving from neutral premises, on the basis of which, of course, to deliberate. Maybe later, in the course of the debate, I would like to go into some technical details. The subject under discussion today - the throwaway - seems to me really the right ground to ask ourselves how we can rationally discuss a topic that is important and very technical and complex, I can also say very fascinating culturally, because it contains a lot of our relations with the world and is therefore also very conflicting. The question is, therefore, where do we start to discuss rationally? The object of today's work is the throwaway, an analogue of the glycol, one of the 20 amino acids of which we are composed, which has many interesting characteristics. It is an inexpensive herbicide, which has really changed the agricultural scenario in the last thirty-forty years: it is used not only in agricultural entrepreneurship to remove the malarbs; we also think of the municipalities and agencies that are responsible for cleaning railways and roads that use it to remove herbs for our safety. It is an inexpensive and very effective herbicide on all malarbs that, to date, has no alternative. It is quickly degraded, having a low penetration into the soil - if you want, we go into technical issues - and above all it presents a very low toxicity in mammals, because it acts on an enzyme present only in plants - we do not have that enzyme - and it has no molecular target in man. It has a long history: discovered in 1950, rediscovered in 1970, patented by Monsanto, used on genetically modified soya, and perhaps the aversion to this herbicide comes from there, but let's leave these technical aspects aside. The crucial point is that since 2001 the patent has expired and, therefore, it is of free use and there are 350 companies in the world that produce it. If this is the object, how can we be sure that it does not cause damage to man? Are there any technical bodies and bodies in Europe and around the world that help us understand this? As on every other phytodrug used in agriculture, plant protection drugs have huge dossiers, they are among the most studied molecules, even more than drugs; so, how can we decide? These bodies give us information, study all the dossiers, prepare and collect the various information. You think that these organisms are many, and the vast majority consider the risk of a substance causing damage to humans. One agency - perhaps the only one, the IARC - assesses the danger. I ask you, then, to pay a moment's attention to the difference between danger and risk because, if we do not understand ourselves here, we risk taking dazzles. They're not synonyms. The danger is the abstract potential of a product to cause an undesirable toxic effect in humans. That's the danger. The risk, however, is an effective measure of the consequences that this substance may have depending on the doses at which it is administered and the time of exposure. If we prescind from doses and times, we have the wrong road, and I would like to give you an example of the difference between danger and risk. I think we all agree that a long, sharp blade is dangerous, right? - but none of us would feel at risk by entering a supermarket and going to buy knives or using a knife to clean vegetables. Similarly, fire is dangerous, but no one thinks of banning the use of lighters and matches. The water, ladies and gentlemen, is very dangerous, apart from the risk of drowning: think that, drinking six litres in a few hours, you can put your life at risk; yet, drinking a couple of liters a day is not only safe and not risky, but it is also very advisable, especially at this time of year. Therefore, when assessing prohibitions or authorisations, the risk is the parameter to look at, because it gives a quantitative measure of the negative consequences for man. Those 20 agencies, including the IARC - each doing his own job - how did they assess the countervailable? As I have said, IARC is a branch of the WHO, it makes assessments only of danger and, therefore, it is the abstract potential, and not of risk; it also says so in the preamble to the monograph dedicated to it, the substance of which we are discussing today. And then, as with any other substance - once it has concluded its examination of the danger of a substance - the IARC classifies the substances in category 1 (certainly carcinogenic; the IARC evaluates carcinogenicity). What do we find in category 1? In category 1 we find alcoholic beverages, sausages, processed meat and, therefore, the cold cuts typical of the Italian gastronomic tradition, which are definitely carcinogenic according to the IARC, which evaluates the potential, regardless of the doses and times of exposure. In category 2A (after group 1), we probably have the substances carcinogenic. EINECS was classified in this category on the basis of some studies in rats. In addition to cesium, in category 2A there are night work, hot drinks (including Argentinian mate), hair dye vapours, fried fumes, and so on. I would point out that, in the years I am in the Senate, I have never seen an act of address that prohibits the consumption of cold cuts or night work. There's this IARC classification. What do the other agencies say? When I talk about the other agencies, I am referring to EPSA, EPA, ECA, Budensinstitut für Risikobewertung (BFR), the Japanese Health Commission, the Swiss and Australian Health Commissions. Let's get to about 20. They have all expressed themselves, and their definition is that it is not carcinogenic and, therefore, we are faced with a situation where there is no health agency in the world that has established that it is a certain carcinogen. Not even the IARC has managed to put it in category 1, but it has included it in the 2A based on some data we can discuss later. The Council for Research in Agriculture and Analysis of the Agricultural Economy (Crea) also tells us that our food products on the Italian market fully comply with the terms of the law. The risk lies, therefore, in feeding fears, which extinguish the trust and rational part of our mind, but a frightened and fragile society is prey to defensive temptations. That is why I call for a methodological approach. The motion before us calls for no point of view, no fear, none of our instincts and no preconceived position, but simply commits the Government to acquire the most up-to-date data, evidence and studies so that any decision can start on a scientifically sound basis. Then there will be the political decision and the supremacy of the political decision. A policy based on evidence would always be necessary, but I really believe it is even more necessary when the legislator is called - as in this case - to choices with a high degree of technicality. These decisions have a strong impact on many vital sectors of our economy. We think of the agricultural sector and it is really important, especially in the interests of citizens, that such decisions be taken on a sound scientific basis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u96	I call Senator Lonardo to explain motion 272.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we close our eyes, we seem to see the swaying ears illuminated by the sun for the richness of the contents they keep and in mythology they are a symbol of fertility. In the vast expanses of the fields the color is that of gold and are as precious as gold. I'm talking about wheat, sprout symbol of rebirth and meaning of life itself. Italian wheat is the emblem of the healthy, central part of our diet and at the base of that Mediterranean diet that - not by chance - is a UNESCO heritage. Unfortunately, the approval of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the EU and Canada has more than fivefold increased the export to Italy of durum wheat and one grain out of three coming from abroad on our tables is Canadian. On the icy fields of Canada, the sun does not shine like we do, and the wheat is treated with herbicidal herbicide, without which it would not ripen. It is used in pre-harvest, according to prohibited methods in our territory. Such a herbicide, contained in durum wheat used to produce bread, pasta and bakery food, is, in fact, very dangerous. It acts in the body as a glicin analogue and can alter a number of proteins; this can lead to the emergence of different pathologies. The main ones, listed in a study conducted by Anthony Samsel and Stephanie Seneff and confirmed by MIT, are diabetes, obesity, asthma, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer's disease and many others that have already been explained by those who preceded me. Not only that: that pesticide is absorbed by foliar way, then moved to any other position of the plant, then to the fruits; it has a solubility in water of 10.1 grams per litre at 20 degrees and this means that at the cooking temperatures of the foods, well above 20 degrees, passes easily in the chain in animals and therefore in people. With products invaded by the lard, I wonder what could happen over time to the food excellence of Made in Italy and all this could have a knock-on effect on the economic production system. That is why we are calling for a ban on the use of this herbicide and we are convinced that it will be used as a herbicide. The danger has long been denounced; it obviously worries me and so many others like me. I come from a land, Campania, where durum wheat flour products are part of our DNA. Our history and gastronomic culture are deeply permeated by these foods, helping to make my region and more generally Italian cuisine the most appreciated in the world. Which of you, ladies and gentlemen, has never enjoyed the joys of a nice dish of Gragnano pasta from my Benevento? Here, the protection of this excellence and the health of citizens are the reasons behind the motion of Forza Italia, which has always been in favour of the implementation of trade between countries, provided that the same do not harm our companies and above all our health, as I will explain below. This motion became necessary for the immediate termination of the effects of the statement of the Ministry of Health of 19 December 2017, which accepted the renewal of the active substance buprenorphine for five years and took any appropriate initiative at European level to promote the review of the decisions taken on the use of the MRLs by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2324 of 12 December 2017. In contrast to Canada, where wheat is grown using surrogate as pesticide, the latter is already prohibited in Europe under Implementing Regulation (EU) The Ministry has transposed it with the Ministerial Decree 9 August 2016 introducing precautionary restrictive measures for the uses of the herbicide herbaceous substance, in particular, through this decree the use in pre-harvest on wheat has been revoked, for the sole purpose of optimizing the harvest or threshing. It is a fact that the previous Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 tolerated the presence of arthropods, provided that they are below certain limits, established in the wheat in ten milligrams per kilogram. As a matter of fact, importers resort to customs and health controls precisely to the 2013 regulation, which runs counter to both the subsequent 2016 regulation and the precautionary principle. The government must now demonstrate clearly whether it is in favour or against the precautionary principle. What is most frightening is the adoption of the free trade agreement between Europe and Canada. As I said before, no one denies the importance of the policy of international agreements, which are so beneficial to the national trade balance, but more attention is needed in Community negotiations to prevent these situations from happening. The Italian food consumer is one of the most demanding and prepared in the international scene; the university bibliography tells us so and we cannot betray his confidence by introducing such dangerous elements without adequate information and prevention. Safeguarding well-being and protecting health also means saving health and careful management and never as at this time I think it is a very important thing that deserves to be cared for. That is why we must increase the culture of Italian wheat and take the path of organic farming to protect our health. I understand that there are the interests of large companies, such as Monsanto and Bayer, but severe penalties are needed. We demand and want close, serious and rigorous controls. In the Committee on Agriculture, we have been discussing the matter for some time now, and I think that a number of hearings have shown something very disturbing about controls: they are being sampled - and it is right that this is so - but it is not acceptable that, if these are three times negative, only documentary checks are being carried out on the basis of what the companies say. I think this is absurd; checks must be made on a sample basis, but all companies must know that at any moment their goods can be checked. We cannot accept that ships arrive freely in our ports; are the laws there? They must be respected. They're not here? They have to be done. The motions that finally come to this House today, I hope, will be voted on by the whole Senate, because this is an issue that concerns everyone. As I said in the preamble, wheat is life, for us Italians it is fundamental and we must protect it. Forza Italia calls for the suspension of the effects of the statement of the Ministry of Health of 19 December 2017, in which the renewal of the active substance has been accepted for five years and to take any appropriate action at European level to promote the revision of the decisions taken on the use of buprenorphine by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2324 of 12 December 2017; to take all necessary precautionary measures on national territory to protect public health as well as the health of the environment, with specific reference to the protection of water, flora and fauna; to promote, also through the instrument of the decree of urgency, regulatory measures aimed at prohibiting the use and the presence of the active substance coming into the food. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u98	I call Senator Sbrana to explain motion 276.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u99	on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the herbicide is a herbicide whose review process in the European Union, on the basis of the opinion of the European Food Safety Agency, concluded with the EU Implementing Regulation 2017/2324 of 12 December 2017 with the renewal of its use for five years. So the substance is now on the market in all the countries of the European Union. The European system of authorisation and control of agropharmaceuticals is the most stringent in the world; therefore, if a phytopharmaceutical is regularly on the market in the European Union, it means that no concrete element has emerged from the European system of analysis to justify its banning. The controls carried out by EFSA at Community level on 48,000 samples indicate that 97.2% of the food products analysed (value up to 98.6 per cent for Italy) have residue values below the statutory thresholds and are therefore to be considered safe for the consumer. Italy has very restrictive legislation on the authorisation and use of plant protection products, characterized above all by rules requiring its use limited to what is strictly necessary to ensure food safety and high quality and quantitative standards of agri-food production. The decree of 9 August 2016 of the Ministry of Health, in line with the European decisions (execution regulation Currently, the limitations concern: non-agricultural use on soils with a percentage of sand less than 80% in vulnerable areas and areas of respect; use of areas frequented by population such as parks, gardens, sports fields, recreational areas, courtyards, green areas, within school complexes, children's play areas and areas adjacent to health facilities; use in pre-gathering for the sole purpose of optimising the harvest or threshing. The Department of the Central Inspectorate for the protection of quality and fraud prevention of agri-food products of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies is also responsible for controls on the placing on the market and use of plant protection products. The inspectorate carries out, in particular, controls on imports of products from third countries, monitoring the arrival of ships in ports and carrying out analyses directly on about three hundred active substances. In 2019, around 2,000 checks were carried out on cereals with 1,785 controlled operators, recording an irregularity rate on products of 8.7 percent, mainly due to incorrect labelling. The entry into force of the restrictions on the use of cesium, implemented in Italy by the aforementioned Ministerial Decree of 9 August 2016, did not lead to the disapplication of the existing limits, but to the limitation of the use of cesium in national crops. The data available to the Ministry of Health also show, from the controls carried out by the maritime, air and border health offices in the context of a cognitive sampling plan provided by the same Ministry for the research of the throwaway, that all the samples analysed present values for residues of throwaway conform to the limit of 10 milligrams-per kilo previewed from the current norm. The guidelines of the European States on the use of cesium at the stage immediately following the date of 2022 which coincides with the expiry of the five-year permit are not uniform. The European Commission itself has designated four Member States - France, Hungary, the Netherlands and Sweden - as co-rapporteurs for the evaluation of the use of cesium which will have to submit, by June 2021, an evaluation report for the renewal of EFSA for the expression by the EFSA of the scientific opinion. A precautionary principle is therefore followed. Following Austria's decision not to prohibit the use of herbicide, Luxembourg has decided to ban it since 2021. In France, despite a public investment of EUR 400 million, the plan, called Ecophyto, which aims to reduce by 50% the pesticides in agriculture by 2025 has not yet started. Indeed, since the launch of the plan in 2008, the use of pesticides has increased by 12% according to data submitted by the Court of Auditors to the French Government. After a slight decrease in 2017, sales increased by 10 per cent only for the products based on cesium. The different positions taken by the Member States reflect the lack of a clear scientific opinion on the risks to public health associated with the use of cesium. The analyses adopted by the competent supervisory authorities on the available evidence produced a clear split of opinions on the possible harmfulness of the herbicide, triggering a heated debate on the clarity of the same research methods used, so that the European Union itself could launch a new regulation to increase the transparency of EFSA's scientific tests. Last January 2020, the US Environmental Protection Agency, in its interim registration review decision, that is, in its further risk assessment, concluded its scientific opinion stating that there are no reasons for concern about food-related risks for any segment of the population, even following the most conservative assumptions applied in the evaluations: for example residues at the highest level of tolerability, direct application in water and treatments of 100% of the crops. The Agency therefore concluded the report by declaring that there are no risks of a professional nature or of non-employment bystanders. In addition to EFSA, ECHA, the European Chemicals Agency, concluded that the molecule is safe. It should, however, be borne in mind that in general molecules and active ingredients should always be used with method and moderation and the use of cesium is currently necessary in agriculture on a variety of crops to achieve good results, taking into account that normally, for each hectare cultivated, only 20 percent are used and that the substance can only be sprayed when it is actually essential. In addition, the EU-wide use of haddock is different from that of third countries such as the USA, Canada and Turkey and by far favour greater protection and protection of the ecosystem, operators themselves and consumers. However, in the light of the climate of absolute uncertainty regarding the future guidelines to be adopted by the European Union on the use of plant protection products, it is essential that our country immediately prepares a framework of actions for the sustainable use of chemistry and the development of integrated farming techniques and alternatives to traditional ones. In recent years the availability of new molecules with an increasingly reduced environmental impact and active at ever lower doses has created the conditions for achieving high levels of food safety and environmental protection, so that in Italy, thanks to the use of innovative crop protection systems, the use of plant protection drugs has decreased at a rate of 1.8% per year in the last ten years. Over 70% of the products are in fact among the least impacted and less than 4% among those classified as toxic. The reduction in the quantities of plant protection products used in agriculture shows that, already for some time, the Italian agricultural sector has been oriented towards an integrated production system, able to combine the economic needs of the agricultural world with those of the environment and health care, for the development of a more sustainable and competitive agriculture. In addition to the active substances of chemical or synthetic origin, studies are being carried out on naturally occurring substances having a herbicide effect derived from medicinal plants such as, for example, pelargonic acid products currently on the market. All this said, the Government is committed: to support initiatives aimed at a more responsible use of plant protection products in agriculture, allowing the sector to continue to grow and develop according to an approach based on the coordinated, rational and eco-friendly use of all the productive factors, able to combine the economic needs of the agricultural world with those of environmental protection and consumer health; to strengthen, also at the internal storage points on the territory, the system of controls for the residues of plant protection products; to identify eco-sustainable production processes, as well as to take any useful initiative aimed at promoting research programmes and to prepare a national seeding plan that allows, on the one hand, to invest in crops such as legumes, nuts and, above all, hard and tender wheat, which in recent years have lost areas cultivated in favour of a strong increase of imports from third countries, and, on the other hand, to support the price on the markets promoting cultivation in the historically-voked areas of South Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u100	I declare the debate open. Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u101	Mr President, we have been talking about haddock since the last parliamentary term. Pesticide is a systemic herbicide developed in the early 1970s and the declaration of its complete safety was due to its abuse. It has been used excessively over the past few decades, with a view to intensive agriculture, which has led to the environmental imbalances that cause climate change. Therefore, it is not possible to refer to the chemical composition and the scientific bases around it, but it must be included in an agricultural system that has been devastating. It has been used in the past in environments of great environmental danger: let's think of the transgenic soy, which is not dangerous because it is transgenic, but because it is resistant to Roundup, so the way of cultivation of transgenic soy has been that of the great expanses in South America, with the planes that sprayed on hundreds of hectares, going to load the environmental system with quantity of chemical product, that is never at zero risk, because there is no chemistry at zero risk. Science does not foresee zero risk: it is unscientific to say that a product is zero risk: there is always a risk margin. The question is to assess the relationship between risk and benefit. It is true that salamis contain products that are then carcinogenic - and I address myself to Senator Cattaneo - but I can choose whether or not to eat salami, because I can decide to be vegan, not to take that risk and contribute to the health of the environment by avoiding animal products. It is therefore a matter of consumer decision. In this case, we are assisting in our country with the import of wheat for which this product is not used as a herbicide, but to dry the wheat. In our historical tradition we see the wheat ripening and drying in the sun, while in the great plains of Canada they cultivate the wheat near the snow, so it is clear that it cannot ripen and that it must be dried in some way; it is dried precisely with the herbicide, that is, with an artificial chemical process of which no one in our country feels the need. I would like to make it clear that we are facing a danger; the IARC tells us that it is potentially carcinogenic, while other scientific groups say that it is not. When science fights about something, it means that there is no certainty. We see it in these days with the history of Covid: some say it is no longer there, others say it has changed, perhaps attenuated or perhaps not. In fact, when you don't have enough knowledge to get to a certainty, it means that science doesn't have a definitive answer. If the IARC tells us that there is a danger of carcinogenicity, it means that there is a danger and we, as politicians, cannot say that that scientist is right and that the other is wrong, but we must take note of the current evidence and say that there is a potential for toxicity of the malt within the wheat. We come to the wheat: why do we Italians have to import wheat dried up with rye instead of strengthening our ancient grains and our production of wheat? We come to the doses of toxicity, which are always human balances and definitions. If one substance is toxic, it is clear that it will be dangerous at a certain dose and less at another; they are human definition. In Italy we eat quantities of pasta and wheat that are not comparable to those of other countries. Therefore, all the tables in which it is said that the residue of the chicory up to a tot is toxic and beyond a tot is not good in countries like Holland, where you eat the potatoes, but not in Italy, where from newborns they give us the soup, the pasta, the pasta, the bread and so on. Beware of the toxicity thresholds, which must be calibrated both on the age at which the food is administered, and on the food customs of our country, which certainly makes a much higher use of pasta than in other European countries. The second issue concerns accumulation in the food chain. Let us not forget that we give grain or any grain products to our animals; and science knows that as we go up the food chain, toxic products are metabolised and accumulated. So let's be careful when we talk about danger, because the danger of a knife at the supermarket I can face it: I see it on the shelf, I buy it and I'm careful. On the other hand, I cannot face the danger of the malting in wheat, because it does not say how much there is on the label; so I could give my baby kilos of malting without knowing it. Beware of talking about science, where science has nothing to do with it. Welcome to a meditation on cesium in food. What is different is to say that we have to weed the train tracks, otherwise the train derails. Let's try to distinguish the issues: one thing is throwaway in the food, one thing is different is throwaway given to the animals and one thing still different is the environmental issue As far as scientific advice is concerned, there are groups (Science in Parliament) which have proposed to set up a scientific study office where all opinions, even divergent opinions, are gathered so that policy can choose on the basis of this information. Never the opposite. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u102	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u103	Mr President, a few numbers to understand what we are talking about. Some things have already been said, but they must always be specified in order to understand exactly the size of the phenomenon. The turnover in the world is USD 4.24 billion; this figure comes from the study group on the impact and prospects of the latter. Seven of the world's largest producer companies are Chinese; this is a good thing, because China absorbs almost entirely the production of the domestic production of cesium. The eighth is Bayer, just because Monsanto bought it. This is the first fact. The second fact is that in Italy we use half a kilo of lard per hectare, not in its basic formulation, but in the additive one, commercially known for example as Roundup, which was the commercial name with which this product was born. The Italian railways are large users of cesium; I have not found the figure, but the loan from the French Société nationale des chemins de fer, which uses 1.1 kilos per kilometer. Assuming that even Italians do the same, not to be less, there are 18 tons only for weeding, that could be done thermally, for example, but that instead you choose to do in a chemical way, because it is certainly less expensive. As far as the evolution of the legislation inherent in the studies that have been made on this molecule (which, as has been well remembered, is a patent-free and therefore freely productive molecule), the IARC in 2013 said it is carcinogenic. Then came the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), which said no, which is probably only a class 2A. We will then make clear what class 2A is. The Guardian therefore revealed that several pages of the relationship with which EFSA established only the probable carcinogenicity were equally copied from the report with which the producer who wanted to renew its use for five years had made this proposal to the committee. So is it a EFSA report or a Monsanto report, now Bayer? That's a good question, too. Returning to class 2A, probably carcinogenic, according to the definition the inclusion in that class means that it is proven to be mutagenic on animal cell lines, both in vitro and in vivo. Well, any product that is mutagenic, i.e. able to induce DNA mutations that exceed the control of cellular quality, then deactivate or bypass the mechanism of self-destruction, can produce an accumulation of mutations and the longer the life of the cell progeny is and the more irreversible mutations accumulate, until eventually to originate uncontrolled proliferations. Already in the face of this possibility, the precautionary principle which, as Mr Fattori rightly said, must come first for a politician, makes you say that no, in the presence of this situation I do not want to enter the dialogue between those who say it is carcinogenic and those who say it is not, those who say it is mutagenic and those who say it is not, because there are studies for everyone, but to establish the stake of the precautionary principle. Coming to the studies, it's useless to bring out the fact that there is a study that says it isn't because, as I said, you can find studies that say one thing and even its opposite not retreated, neither refuted, either written by one person, or by more hands. It is therefore not important at political level to determine who is right, because we are not the referees of this. If anything at political level, the stake is first placed, and then the problem arises of setting up or identifying groups that study the reasons for this anomaly, that is to say, we isolate the countervailable effect from all other effects that can be distorting its effectiveness. This is what politics should do. I shall conclude, although one of the two lines unfortunately cannot do it anymore and, that is, that the consumer can choose not to consume 2A products sometimes and sometimes not and, as a German sample study says, out of 2,000 people, 99.6 percent of their urines contained cesium. So, since 0.4 is a statistical error, the probabilist says that it is present in the urine of the human population with probability 1. The second line: for those who think I'm not toxic, I propose a toast to the maltodextrin, to my health. I'm buying, a glass drunk in front of me; if it's really not toxic, I don't think this problem is there. I repeat, it's on me. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u104	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u105	Mr President, I believe that there are many senators who, like me, look at the great scientific issues through a veil of ignorance of those who have different knowledge and far from the Pharmacopoeia we are talking about today. I have signed and will vote on Senator Cattaneo's first-signed motion, not only because it seemed to me that I could share the content of the motion, but above all for a fundamental reason that he qualifies it with respect to other motions on the same subject. Senator Cattaneo's motion contains both a strong claim to the importance of the cognitive process in which the scientific method is mentioned and the implicit recognition of the great delicacy of the relationship between science and politics. A motion, that of Senator Cattaneo, who, while starting from strong scientific bases, does not proclaim truth, does not pretend to give definitive answers, but appeals to the Government to have more insights, to seek the solution also in the contradictory, to demand the evidence of every scientific affirmation, to invest the resources necessary to arrive at solid and impossible conclusions. Scientific research and extraordinary technological evolution are multiplying in the Planet the availability of ever new tools that can help us to beat hunger, increase knowledge, travel, change our lives, overcome diseases and live much longer. Freedom of research and trust in scientific progress are two of the great pillars on which contemporary civilization and modern thought are based and it is from here that the need to focus well on the relationship between science and politics is born, because without a great alliance between good scientific research and good politics it will be very difficult to guarantee humanity a future of peace and justice. Shortly ago Senator Fattori recalled - I believe very fittingly - the relationship between science and politics in the fight against the Covid-19 and reminded it appropriately, only if we think of the very serious damage that in the United States, in South America and even in Great Britain have been produced by rulers who have faced the fight at the Covid without taking into account the prescriptions of science. The war between President Trump and Dr Fauci shows very clearly the consequences of a bad policy that is opposed to good science. In recent legislation, important parts of the Italian Parliament and the Senate themselves have addressed major issues, regardless of scientific evidence and even imposing political, if not economic, points of view and interests. This is not how we respond to the challenges of the future. On a delicate subject such as surrogate, Senator Cattaneo's motion indicates not the truth, but the path that can help us reach it. A long time ago, Pope Francis invited science and religion to an honest and transparent dialogue, intense and productive for both. It would really be paradoxical if politics could not grasp for itself the meaning of the challenge that Pope Francis launched to religion. Only a responsible pact between science and politics can have the strength to protect the integrity of the course of nature and the great changes that come precisely from study and research. Science can help politics to exploit all the possibilities that nature offers us, but it can only do so if we recognize it as a great ally of ours, not as an enemy to be fought and to be feared and not as an annoying element that we may not take into account according to our political or economic interest at the moment. A short time ago, in her speech in the Chamber, Senator Cattaneo well explained to us the serious danger that Parliament could cause the country to run if we let ourselves go to decide not on the basis of clear scientific evidence, but on the basis of our feelings. An important philosopher, Emanuele Severino, said that many of the great changes of our time are due not so much to the strength of ideologies, but to the advances of science and technology, which have now been at the centre of the dynamics of society, marginalizing the great cultural traditions of the West. Science and politics therefore need each other, but they must be able to respect each other, recognizing their respective borders. We must fear the scientist who wants to make himself king and pretends to dominate the world by imposing his knowledge with his discoveries, but equally - I say this to myself and to whom among us, in claiming the right primacy of politics, he thinks he can override scientific truths with ease - we must fear that policy that nothing knowing and nothing knowing claims to invade the field of science by making good by law what is bad and vice versa. It is for these basic reasons, which have to do with the relationship between science and politics, that I shall vote on Senator Cattaneo's motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u106	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u107	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say straight away that I do not have all the certainty I have heard in this House today, and that is why I believe it is appropriate to make it clear at first with a premise and, above all, at the end of the day, to ask a question. The figures are obvious and in the eyes of all, for example Italy - let us be clear - has no food self-sufficiency: we lack 2.3 million tons of soft wheat. I remind myself, but also the Assembly or those who listen to us, that during the period of lockdown we found ourselves in a situation of emergency and crisis because we had food supplies of this product only for about a month and all the Italian flours were placed on the market. In Italy - we have to say - we have an extraordinary grain as quality, from the point of view of controls, because it passes through moments of evaluation that are careful, especially science devotes itself to this issue. Without this self-sufficiency, we must therefore import wheat and our main importers are the United States of America and Canada, the privileged ports are those of Puglia. As I said, I do not have all the certainties that I have heard in this House, because it is a complex, difficult subject, it is a subject that affects science, but that must also look very carefully at the primacy of politics; I am a supporter of the primacy of politics and therefore of the decision that each of us must be able to take at delicate and difficult times, even when we express a vote on issues that may appear marginal, but that they are not. I appreciated - and I want to say this with great serenity - the intervention of Senator Cattaneo, who seemed extremely balanced to me, also because he made a fundamental distinction, that is, that between risk and danger. Are we really in a risk situation in Italy? I believe that, all in all, for the controls that are carried out we can be basically quiet. I was talking about data: you all know that the herbicide is a herbicide used primarily for the cultivation of soft wheat and corn; about 800 tons are consumed in the world; there is a yield of about 5 billion euros and there is a particular annual consumption in Italy, because every Italian citizen - don't look who speaks to you because it exceeds the statistics - consumes about 26 kilograms of pasta. When we went to see the data - since then we have to look at and compare ourselves with the real data - we realized that the six brands of pasta produced in Italy are absolutely the safest and I am referring to the fact of comparison that we should have, that of ten milligrams per kilogram of personal body weight; i.e. we should multiply ten milligrams of nitrite per kilo of own weight and so see what is the minimum acceptable. Then, by doing this evaluation, which is a simple mathematical operation, we see that the presence of the metabolite AMPA (aminomethylphosphonic acid) in Barilla paste is 0.301 milligrams per kilogram, in Garofalo is 0.286 milligrams, in the Divella of 0.249 milligrams, in Rummo of 0.137 milligrams, in Molisana 0.086 milligrams and in De Cecco 0.083 milligrams. They are therefore largely under the maximum limits and it is not for me or a political party to say so, because these figures come from the Food Safety Agency in Parma. I therefore believe that we can be essentially calm also because, by making a very simple calculation, a multiplication of the weight of an average man - I repeat not to look at who speaks to you - in order to reach the poisonous, dangerous dose, we should ingest daily from 100 to 600 kilograms of pasta. That's the real thing. We have a food excellence: I do not understand why we start to make stylized monks, perched on the column of ideologies that I think should be overcome. Of course we do not have - I repeat - all the certainties, but I think I can say that we are still largely safe. There is someone who, on the other hand, has reported that there is a genotoxic situation, but we have no scientific evidence of it. There is another extremely important fact, which concerns the production of wheat. In Italy production ranges from 3 (minimum) to 3.5 million tons each year and is largely insufficient because, as I said, about 2.3 million tons are missing, almost half. Do you know how much France produces? France produces almost ten times what we produce: 37 million tonnes. The largest producer is China, with 130 million tonnes, followed by India with 95 million tonnes, Russia with 82 million tonnes and the United States with 47 million tonnes. We are therefore in a situation of extreme difficulty. Italy, if it also wants to solve the problem of surfers, if it had any doubt, should start a new battle of wheat: we should recapture our land and cultivate them in that perspective and in that direction. Do we want to do this? We have taken other directions, on the contrary: we have pursued clean energy, green energy. I am referring to photovoltaics, which has replaced many crops in the fields; we preferred to put photovoltaics, which produced little, compared to the control and cultivation of extremely important foods, forgetting that agriculture is really the primary sector and that is what we should defend. I - I repeat - do not have all these certainties, I will carefully evaluate every motion that has been tabled. With great serenity I tell you that our wheat is characterized by a truly extraordinary food security. When wheat from the United States or Canada arrives on our shores, it arrives in Puglia, there are extremely strict controls. These are the reasons why, at the time of the vote, the House should intelligently assess the motions that have been tabled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u108	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretary, today we are talking about a very important subject, although I do not think it is very well known to all citizens. It is a subject that has come to the fore in this last period for the arguments made about the American multinational Monsanto, which clearly raised a debate on the mass media. I do not want today, as I think so many of you do, to judge the throwaway; I do not think that at the end of this whole debate in this House it will emerge whether it is dangerous or not: at least I, personally, do not have that analytical scientific and technical knowledge to allow me to give such a precise judgment. I refer, however, to the statements made by international bodies which are much more accredited than my specific competence. I am referring to the IARC, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, or the AIRC, the Italian Agency for Research on Cancer, which said that it is most likely that it is potentially dangerous. I believe that this is due to the fact that Monsanto in the United States has compensated, with more than $10 billion, about 5,000 American citizens for the damage suffered and ascertained by the latter; this clearly means that this substance carries some danger. I am convinced that this has become everyone's opinion. In Italy, we hoped that, perhaps following the example of France (although initially he said that he would eliminate the throwaway and then, in the end, he will continue to use it at least until 2021), he would not have to wait for 2021 to prohibit the use of throwaway. Let's try to understand why we use cesium in agriculture. It has been said, even with technical knowledge from those who have preceded me, that the herbicide is a systemic herbicide that serves farmers to facilitate their work, eliminating weeds. But if it's dangerous why do we use it? This is the real issue that we must address in this House today. There's a first question we need to ask ourselves. Italian agriculture is excellence in the world, with the Mediterranean diet, the quality of our products and more than 300 PDO, PGI and IGT products and we plan to endanger and ruin all this, using a herbicide such as herbicide? I absolutely do not believe that Italian agriculture needs this, but Italian farmers must be able to compete under the same conditions with farmers in other countries where the use of haddock is allowed. If we are to fight, we must do it on an equal footing and it is up to policy - and we are - to help agriculture, perhaps by recognising some extra subsidies to all those farmers who commit themselves not to using cesium. After reading the four motions presented, I think that in the end I will vote in favour not only of that of the League, but of all of them because, although with different nuances, sensibilities and commitments, they all say that it is not known whether it is actually dangerous but it is better not to be used. I shall therefore vote in favour of all motions. I also hope that our country's farmers will not do so until the date set by the European Union for 2021. Colleagues, let me give you a small example. In the garden of my home I try to grow and eat healthy and organically. We have seen that the culture of the garden has exploded: about 6 Italians out of 10 have the garden in their homes, for a total of 36 million Italians. This culture has spread. Although it is impossible to have the data certain, I think that of all these 36 million Italians there is absolutely not one who uses cesium to remove the weeds in his own garden, because we are all convinced that, in the end, this substance is harmful. But then why don't we operate systematically and completely ban the use of cesium in our country's crops? We have focused on the quality of our products; the Made in Italy and the Mediterranean diet are known all over the world for the quality and goodness, as well as for the organoleptic properties of the products. In my opinion, this is one more reason why we do not want to make absolutely any use of cesium, but it is clear that we must guarantee our farmers the possibility of having income even if they do not use it. If we want to analyze, from a technical point of view, the method of cultivation for which it is used in agriculture, we see that we save a lot by using it mainly - and this is a purely technical argument - on sowing, on the hard: we give a nice spraying of the herbicide, then we sow on the hard and the work is beautiful and finished: the product grows luxuriant without spending money on ploughing, harrowing, milling the soil. It is clear that when one thinks of a poor product, as is durum wheat in our country, even the farmer struggles not to use products of this type in order to have a minimum income. It is that minimum income that politics, on the other hand, must guarantee him. We have a huge extension of our country's territory, especially in southern Italy, which would be devoted to the cultivation of wheat, but if we do not give these people the chance to survive by encouraging the wheat chain, in particular durum wheat, it is difficult for our farmers to commit their resources to this cultivation. So, in the end, we're forced to import it. We heard a number of colleagues first make a point about where we care. We import it from South America and North America, especially Canada. And Canada is the real problem. Canada, among other things, is the country from which in 2019 we imported twice as much as in 2018. Durum wheat is matured in the snow in Canada, because it comes to the time of ripening when the snow arrives, and in order to be able to be caught once dry it is flooded with maltodextrin. It is obvious that, when this grain arrives in our ports, it certainly has some small residue - I say it ironically - and here immediately comes the great work that must be done by the control body in our country, the central inspectorate of the protection of quality and fraud repression of agri-food products (Icqrf). I certainly applaud this institution - but I think everyone else's - having the task of controlling these ships. In this regard we had the honour - as well as the pleasure - of appointing the director of the Icqrf about three weeks ago in the Committee on Agriculture, who told us how the inspections on ships by the technicians of the Institute take place - I see Senator De Bonis nodding, having been the promoter of this hearing - and told us that all the ships that arrive in our ports are being controlled. Then, he explained in a more detailed and analytical way - I start at the conclusion, President - how the ships are controlled, and we have discovered that all the ships are controlled from the point of view of documentation (all the documents of every single ship are controlled) however the physical-technical-scientific sampling on the wheat happens to sample: two ships out of ten, five ships out of ten, one ship out of ten, according to a certain randomness that they go to decide. I address the Undersecretary Sileri: please make sure to give some additional resources to the Icqrf so that all the ships that arrive in our ports, not only in Puglia but also in the other ports where durum wheat comes from foreign countries, are checked one by one because of the health of our citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u110	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a little more patience because I would like to try to use these minutes to better understand some technical aspects, perhaps to arrive at the conclusion - which is the one promoted by the motion - that in fact needs to be examined, I believe that we need a commitment given to the Government to ensure that its bodies take responsibility for collecting literature and technical and scientific information on surfacing concerning the environment, health, trade, imports and economic costs of using or not using this product. So, that is exactly the objective of the motion. I also wanted to intervene by returning to the example of wheat because it is clear that it is something that strikes us; it has already been mentioned by Senators Aimi and Vallardi, but I would like to add some information. We import wheat, but, as the president of the Industrial Millers Association of Italy says, our country is a structural importer of wheat: it means that we cannot do without it. If we didn't import it from Canada, we would import it from other states. We hope that there is this examination requested by the motion, but as far as I understand we import wheat precisely because the Italian one is cut - in this case with the Canadian one - because it is not of good quality: the protein content is insufficient to produce the pasta. There is also a need of this kind. Everyone can imagine the future they want, but if we imagine blocking imports of wheat from Canada and rejecting goods on the basis of a completely legal and agreed presence of an active substance, I wonder how the states would react. How would we react if, by exporting wine, they blocked it because traces of something are found to say to them of a certain danger, regardless of the evidence etc.? Since the question of wheat touches us a lot, I too wanted to go back to the numbers because I also did calculations. We're terrified of the throwaway, let's face it. It is the perfect enemy: herbicide, it costs little, it is behind Monsanto, there are studies on probable carcinogenicity and it says only one association (IARC) (the other 19 who evaluate the risk say no). However, let us leave this to the discussion that I hope will be done downstream of the motion. Let's pretend that we're really terrified of the cesium because it's the perfect enemy. Let us then go and see how far there is in the foodstuffs, especially in the pasta and dried legumes. Senator Aimi has already quoted the numbers. We are talking about nanograms per kilo or per litre, equal to a drop or less in an Olympic pool or a pinhead in a tir of pasta. There is very little and we keep in mind, as Senator Aimi said, that the statutory limit for the wheat is 10 milligrams per kilo and, if we go to measure, we find 54 to 526 times less. There's very little. How much lard can we take? We have to train for this. I too have done the calculations: the maximum daily dose we can take is 0.5 milligrams/kilo per day and, therefore, as Senator Aimi said, we should take between 100 and 600 kilos of pasta daily every day of our lives, until the last day, and we would not get to the levels of toxicity yet. With these numbers so far from reality I really hope to have helped dissipate some of the fears. I shall conclude by quoting some of the other things that have been said. Each time there is this story of science divided; and a classic of the unscientific narrative. In fact, science is divided, as in the Covid period, because a public debate is taking place. This is the moment when you are discovering and studying different themes and different areas. There is division because there is not yet a certain and consolidated step, but as knowledge increases the division decreases. [[Applause.]] On the history of science divided and it comes to my mind when at the time Stamina was heard to say "science is divided," and division was one here and one hundred thousand beyond. He's a guy who says he's against this product and a hundred thousand who say he's not dangerous. We must also be careful to repeat this narrative. Finally, on Bayer's history that pays 10 billion euros, since it was quoted by Senator Vallardi as a proof of guilt, see that this is part of the charm and also of the complexity of the topic: how is it that Bayer - which acquired Monsanto - accepts, settles and pays 10 billion euros, to close 95,000 of the 120,000 causes of farmers who have sued Monsanto? You may have been shooting in the United States. I've been in front of advertising signs several times, saying, Do you have a tumor? Did you work, or did you pass by a land in which he's been spread out of cesium? Come to us. It is these lawyers' studies (it is a technique in vogue in the United States) that implement what has been called an extortion on legal proceedings from a journalistic point of view. It is these enormous studies that urge people to report tumors, as if they were associated with cesium. When you're facing 120,000 causes, what do you do? Just as science cannot be replaced by politics, not even a court can be replaced by science; science is not done in court. If you go to read what was said during the trial of this case in court, you will be able to verify that there is no admission of guilt. Bayer continues to support the absence of evidence of carcinogenicity of this product and the demonstration is that - you can verify it on Bayer's website - it continues to produce and also make it available to our farmers. Keep in mind that Bayer is not the only one that produces maltodextrin, but there are 350 other companies. There is therefore no correlation between the decision to close those thousands of cases and an alleged guilt. There would be many other issues to be dealt with, but perhaps the most important thing to remember is what may be the consequences of a ban and what would be the consequence for our farmers and for our already highly suffering agriculture. I also wonder how we can we weed roads, highways, railways and public green areas for the safety of all of us. There's no alternative. We continue to study; it is not true that looking inside science finds us everything, because publications can be weighed. There are publications that are worthless and there are publications that show that out of 50,000 farmers there is no correlation with cancer development. There is a beautiful study published in 2017 and there is also another beautiful graph; think that in the last twenty or thirty years the consumption of the lard has increased by 600 percent in the world. It costs little, it is effective, it degrades very well and has nothing or very low toxicity to the man: while the curve of the consummation is ascending go to see the curve relative to the number of non-Hodgkin lymphomas, tumor that according to the IARC would be caused by the use of cesium: it is flat. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u112	Thank you, Senator Cattaneo, also for the exhibition from which, of course, everyone will draw their own convictions. The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u113	Mr President, I am in favour of motion 93 (text 2), which was first signed by Senator De Bonis, provided that the first commitment of the mechanism is reworded as follows: "I take all appropriate initiatives at European level to promote the revision of the decisions taken on the use of cesium by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2324 of 12 December 2017 and to assess the possibility of suspending in more detail the effects of the statement of the Ministry of Health of 19 December 2017 by which the renewal of the active substance has been accepted for five years"; "The second commitment of the mechanism is the words: "9 August 2016", eliminating the following engraving; the third commitment is preceded by the formula: "to evaluate the possibility of icing"; the fourth commitment is concluded by the words: "glyphosate in food." I am also in favour of motion 262, at the first signature of Senator Cattaneo, provided that the third commitment is preceded by the following formula: Finally, I welcome motion 272, first signed by Senator Bernini and motion 276, first signed by Senator Centinaio.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u114	I shall summarize for the Assembly. As regards motion 93 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator De Bonis, the opinion expressed was favourable but conditional on commitments 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the operative part. On the other hand, the opinion is in favour without motion 262, at the first signature of Senator Cattaneo, provided that the third commitment of the device is preceded by the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "to." On the contrary, the opinion is favourable without conditions on motions 272, at the first signature of Senator Bernini, and on motion 276, at the first signature of Senator Centinario. I ask the motion-makers to tell us if they accept the conditions set by the government. De Bonis (Misto). That's good for us, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cattaneo? CATTANEO (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr. President, we're okay with that, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u117	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, in recent years too often politics has made choices regardless of the direction of science. This is paradoxical at a time when there is a great deal of talk about the importance of competences, but then they are systematically ignored to be guided by fear or by other feelings that go through public opinion. The examples are very many: from fear for vaccines that in certain environments continue to remain, despite the dramatic experience of the Covid-19, to that for the 5G, despite the fact that there is no scientific evidence of damage to health to date. I also remember the Stamina method, which, very serious, entered as a trial in some hospitals despite the clear opposition of the medical community. The political decision-maker must always be guided by the principles of prudence, but must base his decisions on evidence and scientific method, which represents the discrimination between a modern society and a premodern one in which decisions were made on the basis of magical thought and superstitions. For these reasons, we consider the motion tabled by Senator Elena Cattaneo to be of great relevance in the debate on ESMA. The merit of this motion is to restore a method without taking sides in favour or against, because it does not count the landing place but the rigour with which it is reached, and it counts the fact that the legislator has all the scientific information from his before being able to express himself on such an important subject. The truth is that choices are not always the result of meditated reflection on the basis of objective and exhaustive data and this says a lot about the decision-making process relating to matters where less attention is paid to how many bad measures are sometimes introduced because of an evaluation process that is based on incorrect or incomplete information. This motion is also an invitation to start a reflection on the whole mechanism of the public decision, especially in a time when matters are increasingly complex, full of nuances and implications and polluted by the fake news circulating on the Net and that know how to stir feelings of fear and mistrust. The commitment to ask the Government is not to take a stand but to adopt a method, acquiring and, where necessary, producing all the useful information and then involving Parliament, which must remain the place of confrontation on issues so important and felt by citizenship. That is why our Group will vote in favour of the Cattaneo motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u120	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, I believe that this debate, as has been highlighted by some of the authors of the motion, by the speeches that have been made and also by Senator Cattaneo in his speech, can indeed be an opportunity to ask us how our political choices should be based on facts of scientific evidence and how much they should be influenced by the perceptions, appearances and pressures, even inappropriate and problematic, of public opinion. Instead, we believe that the truths that science can offer us through its own research, through its own insights, through the sharing and comparison of different studies, can really help us to make appropriate choices. The first-signed motion Cattaneo calls on the Government to review the main research done on the subject of cesium in such a way as to make Parliament, the competent committees and the authorities responsible for making decisions based on the reality of the facts, avoiding relying on evidence that has not been found in reality. A passage from the motion that seems to me very important, and has always been emphasized by Senator Cattaneo in his speech, is that relating to the difference between danger and risk. It is quite clear - if you have read the motions and if you have read the article of the first-signed motion Cattaneo - that there is really a difference of approach in the way in which the different scientific authorities have conducted their studies, their own paths and also how they have defined their positions. IARC, in 2015, classified the throwaway as possibly carcinogenic substances, including this element in group 2A, did not define the risk of carcinogenicity of this substance but photographed only the danger as it photographed it for many other substances. I went to look for the list of substances in group 2A. There are substances emitted by the manufacture of artistic glass and present in glass containers and printed articles; there is biomass fuel, mainly wood, and high-temperature emissions by frying (also mentioned in the motion). However, there is also type 68 human Papilloma virus, as well as lead compounds. There is even malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum infections in endemic areas, to which are added professional exposures in spraying and application of non-arsenic insecticides and I could continue with other substances and other exposures, some more known, others that are definitely obscure. I repeat that this is a list of dangerous elements, without defining what the risk is. If you have read the wording of the motion, it is very clear that the concentration of really toxic throwaway and such as to lead to a real risk of tumor in man should be the one deriving, for example, from a daily consumption of kilos and kilos of dough produced with wheat in which residues are present from the use of throwaway, therefore a condition absolutely impossible to occur. Apart from these very specific considerations, the principle underlying this motion, which therefore prompts us to support it, to vote in favour of it and to ask the whole House to support it, is precisely to ensure that our choices and decisions are taken and taken on the basis of scientific evidence. Hence the commitment to the Government to make a complete review of all the documentation, of all the research that can be accessed today in order to allow the Assembly and the Commissions to have clear, precise and scientific evidence of what is the reality, of what are the real risks and not only of the dangers that, I repeat, are diffused for many other substances. If we proceed in this direction and then we will have very clear elements that tell us clearly how things really are and what the reality really is, not only will we do a service to the country, but we will also do a service to politics, putting us in a position to give us a criterion of choice, which is what can be assumed and linked to the evidence that science can provide us, not only with researches that highlight the possible dangers, but, above all, with the measurement of the real risks in this case linked to a specific substance such as Tournament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u123	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in the meantime, there are a number of issues that I think should be stressed very strongly in this House. In a particular way - and I say this to my colleagues - there is no one who has the monopoly of science. The subject we are dealing with with with these motions has been debated for a long time and has been dealt with by a large number of scientific bodies. I could mention here a great many representatives of the scientific world and the medical world, who, precisely in view of today's discussion of the motions on cesium ("glyphosate" and not "glysophate," let us say this too), have said things that are evidently not the result of some critical thought, but of scientific data. I am thinking of doctors for the environment, but I could mention all the other data that have been carried out, including research by the Ramazzini Institute; I could mention a lot of data from the specific cancer research centres and I could mention the data that IARC used for its research. We could do a very long disquisition here, bringing equally scientific data indicating the danger of this substance. I say this, because there is no one in this House who has a monopoly on science, while others devote themselves to a simple expression of free thought. These are elements which have accumulated over the years - and I say this to my fellow Members, Mr President - and it is no coincidence that this issue has been debated for a long time in this House in the last parliamentary term. Then there are other issues that are quite clear and relevant and I have heard some strange accents here too. In the United States, where class action is not very harmless, but is effectively and very heavily used in consumer protection, there have been recent judgments condemning Monsanto to billionaire compensation. I could also refer to the Lyon Court, in France, which made itself very clear, in that case opposing the European Commission's decision to extend the authorisation. The whole debate in the European Commission has had alternating events, as we all know and as we also see happening in our Commissions. Now we have come to this point in an unfettered way - I assume all the responsibilities of what I am saying - that the 2017 authorisation, the result of pressure that has been widely exercised, is about to expire. The intention of these motions is to apply the precautionary principle - as I say to colleagues - which is one of the fundamental principles underlying the European Treaties and on the basis of which all European countries must somehow prepare and guide not only their own legislation but also their own decisions. What do we say now, with a view to the end of 2022? There are clear elements from every point of view and above all from the scientific point of view; then we can do all the insights we want, but we already have scientific evidence and, I repeat, we could bring treaties to the House on treaties. Well, we demand that the authorisation not be renewed and above all that action be taken at European level, precisely in order to exercise our right-to-duty as a country in relation to the unusual possibility of a further extension of the authorisation. I think that there are all the elements for Europe to review that decision even before the end of 2022 and I think that France will be at our side in this battle. It was a decision - I repeat - that affects not only the health of European citizens, but also the interests of European countries and, above all, of our country. I have heard statements saying that our grain is of poor quality compared to other imported grains. I regret to contradict, but the elements are very different and I do not say this just because of an element of patriotism. Our country has been a great producer, we have made in recent times incredible progress from the point of view of quality, also from the protein point of view. It was one of the things that, as far as I am concerned, led me to decide more and more to challenge a number of trade treaties, such as the Global Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), because I believe that we have all the resources and possibilities to improve our production even more. I know that to someone, who has presented other motions, for example little garba, very little organic agricultural production. To us, on the other hand, we believe that to focus on quality, food safety, the short supply chain, organic production is the future of our agriculture and we must push more and more on these aspects. We are withdrawn from the end of the negotiations, but it is there in Europe that we are aiming, more and more at the issues that are before everyone's eyes and that are essential to speed up and push towards sustainability and quality. They have made statements, claiming that, all in all, it doesn't hurt much; I don't know if we should invite someone to experiment on themselves, but I would like, for the health of our citizens, for the competition of our products and for the respect of the quality of our agriculture, to take important decisions here. This Parliament can support our country in order to make sure that the authorisation is reviewed in Europe, that a series of controls are carried out on imports - because on the issue of residues I believe that we will have to work even more - thus providing for a number of possibilities, which we point out in our motion, in order to ensure that the presence of cesium is not only monitored, but that the use of this herbicide is increasingly banned and that an effective system of controls is even more guaranteed. All this not only for our production, but above all for imports. From this point of view I believe that the debate we have had today is very important and can give a clear address to our Government in Europe; it can give a clear address, as has also shown the reply of the Undersecretary Sileri, to ensure that our Ministry of Health is ready to intervene and take all the steps to ensure that the authorisation is not extended, but rather that it is revoked, that in our country there is the safety of having products absolutely healthy and free of herbicides and other pesticides. For all these reasons, we have worked together, listened to and accepted a number of rewordings. We therefore vote in favour of our motion and I believe that there are many points of contact with other motions as well. However, I would like to say that we will certainly vote against the first-signed motion by Senator Cattaneo, because we do not regard it as a tribute to science - anything else - and it contradicts the scientific elements that we have brought into today's debate and above all it does not do the good of our country, of the health of the citizens and of Italian interests in the field of agriculture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u126	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is in the awareness of everyone as in the last century, but especially in the decades of the post-war period, that scientific research and innovation connected with this have made available to citizens and communities, at least in a large part of the world, tools and opportunities that they have in history allowed to help man to satisfy his needs and to free him from the many limitations and constraints that had characterized his existence in the past decades. It is not by chance that life expectations have expanded and that our perception of normality or legitimate expectation have risen with regard to the quality of life, at least with respect to many practical aspects of it, but we have also discovered, with ever greater evidence and has grown in these years in us the awareness that all our actions have, precisely for this technological pressure that we have put in place, much more than in the past, reverberated on the environmental context in which we live and on the environment in general, on our own health and that of the Planet, consequences and impacts not always only positive. In many cases, we have been forced to correct behavior, to give ourselves more stringent rules, to back down, to review convictions and decisions that we thought wise and sound. I would just like to mention, as an example, the history of asbestos, the industrial use of asbestos fibre. At the end of the nineteenth century, it seemed to have solved many production systems technologically; at the beginning of the twentieth century there were the first feelings of danger connected to the use of these materials; in the thirties studies and complaints showed the consequences that this use brought. This lasted until the end of the seventies. In the eighties the acclaimed awareness of asbestosis and mesothelioma led then, at the beginning of the nineties, to the prohibition of use, but meanwhile in Piedmont, with epicenter at Casale, thousands of dead and tens of thousands of families ruined by the presence of these materials. The history of so many great discoveries and of so many leaps forward of humanity has involved risks and sometimes the need to take steps back to create the premises to be able to move forward again, but in a more just and balanced way. After all, this is the history of chemistry and technological innovation in agriculture, which has made it possible - quite clear - to make enormous progress. When the Community's agricultural policy (CAP) was launched in the 1960s, the aim of this policy was to feed Europeans and avoid the risk of a heavy lack of self-sufficiency in food. This is also the awareness that has concerned the paths of many human activities and that has led to the field of initiatives, technologies and products that then had to be withdrawn. I live in an area with a very strong specialized agricultural vocation, especially with regard to fruit growing and wine growing and I think I do not reveal a secret if I say that the quality and safety of our lives, our health and the environmental impact today is much greater than what we experienced in the 1980s. I still remember when, as a young boy, I set up a family orchard and went to a dealer of products for phytoiatric agriculture and this dealer advised me some insecticides with a wide spectrum of action of extraordinary effectiveness, which at that time were legitimately authorized for use, which a few years later were withdrawn from the market because they had a devastating impact on the health and environment in which they were called to operate. Many products considered safe and that had been authorized, after years have been rethought. The history of human activity is the history of a matter in becoming, in terms of scientific knowledge, technical, community, political awareness and tangible perceptions and experiential findings. This very awareness, illuminated by the precautionary principle, has led the European Union to a review of its beliefs and regulatory lines. The toxicological classification of plant protection products and labelling, which is the result of a process begun thirty years ago, with Directive No 414 of 1991, has been the subject of a thorough review to protect human health, to protect the environment and at the same time to make available to producers the appropriate means to protect crops. 17.32 (Taricco follow-up). That 1991 Directive No. 414 led to European Regulation No. 1107 of 2000 and to Directive No. 128 of 2009 on sustainable use, with stricter procedures for the approval of plant protection products; the latter was then transposed at national level by Legislative Decree No. 150 of 2012 which led to the National Action Plan (NAP) and revealed a number of critical issues which are subject to observation in the five-year period 2019-2024 and which will then be evaluated at the outcome of a scientific committee. This is the framework in which today's debate on the surrogate, which from an agronomic and environmental point of view is in some respects a product that is certainly very effective, because it has a wide range of action; as has been said, it is very effective and economic and has the peculiarity of being easily degradable in the surface layers of the soil, so from a technical and agronomic point of view it is definitely a very effective and very useful product. However, it is also a product which, as has been said in the discussions we have heard, has raised very important fears and concerns. Many of these fears are linked to concerns that have emerged in the use over the years. Surely, those who used it like me know that it is not a walk to do so, because also from an olfactory point of view and the impact it releases is very heavy. There have been many doubts, especially some uses that have been made of it: it has already been said before that imagining the use of this product as desiccant where durum wheat productions cannot go to ripening certainly arouses very heavy negative sensations in us. From this point of view, we believe that these perplexities exist and above all, the fact that a few months ago in the United States there were many tens of thousands of causes, with a disbursement of more than 10 billion dollars to silence most of the appeals that were in the field, raises some doubts and perplexities beyond any reasonable uncertainty. We consider it a very important step to have, with today's motions, committed the Government to the utmost attention and care for the independence of scientific assessments that will be used in view of the revision of the authorisation to use, which will be made in a few years, as well as having asked the Government for an important investment on controls to strengthen especially the productions that come from the productive areas in which there is a very distorted use, from our point of view, of this product and the commitment to report to this Parliament the evidence that will emerge. That is why we will vote in favour of all the motions, as reworded in the light of the Government's demands, because we believe that they are complementary in addressing such a complex issue as the one that is at our attention. The government, in fact, will certainly have to move on the basis of indications, studies, research and data that, especially in the light of a precautionary principle, will be able to give the indications to illuminate the steps that we will be called to take. Above all, however, we really want an important attention to all foodstuffs and in particular to those from production areas at risk, because we consider it important that Parliament, as it is written in some of the motions under consideration, is involved in the path that will lead us to the revision of authorisations. In our view, it is also important that Parliament should be able to express itself on these issues, in the light of all the scientific evidence that will have to be put in place, because it is an important aspect of our life that we believe cannot be relegated from politics only to exquisitely technical assessments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u129	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Coronavirus emergency has created a new awareness in Italian citizens of the strategic value of the food supply chain and the difficulty that our farmers encounter and overcome every day, in order to guarantee those high quality foods that make our food and wine products great in the world. The subject we are dealing with today, therefore, is of greater importance in this new light, as it is our duty to ensure the health of these foods. In this sense, the use of surfers has for years divided the scientific world (water, no harm), as well as producers and consumers, in particular the latter worlds, contrasting them a little: on the one hand consumers, who rightly have the right to be protected by eating healthy, healthy and correct foods, and on the other hand our farmers, who are almost accused of using products that hurt and harm health. Maybe you're looking for the easy idea of the public enemy. In the United States, we are witnessing numerous cases of compensation brought by citizens who complain of damage to their health, due to the excessive use of this substance in the agri-food chain. True, these situations certainly alarm us, although we are aware that the excesses typical of North American intensive crops do not belong to our modus operandi. However, I would like to emphasise the debate on another subject, as well as the debate on health protection which has already been widely discussed by my fellow Members. I am referring to the need to harmonise legislation at national level (but in fact we also want legislation at Community, European and beyond levels). As you know, the regional directives on the use of cesium differ greatly to date. I strongly denounced, first of all as an agricultural entrepreneur, like the farmers of my region, Calabria, have suffered in 2016 an important competitive damage because of the choice of the Regional Council of the time to prevent the use of herbicides and pesticides, from one day to the next, for integrated productions. You see, colleagues, not using this product forces our farmers to use other less performing and more expensive ones. All this causes an exorbitant increase in costs, which, however, in order not to burden consumers, is not compensated by an equal increase in sales prices, thus causing an important erosion of revenues. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that profits are already seriously compromised by climate, market factors, as well as damage and problems caused by pathogens and exogenous animals in our environment and, last but not least, by unfair competition caused precisely by disparities in production rules. Therefore, approving this motion also serves to allow everyone to play with equal weapons, balancing the market at least at national level. At the same time, of course, we are protecting the health of our fellow citizens. In this respect, however, we hope that research on this subject will continue, given that the Community bodies responsible for evaluating the active substances have not yet reached a unanimous and certain decision. For example, it is shown that, if used in the right quantities, as has already been said, there are no particular reasons for concern. If anything, there are problems with imported food, as has already been widely mentioned. It is therefore important that we continue to entrust ourselves to the scientific communities, as has been done in the recent period with regard to the Covid-19, when most of the decisions have been entrusted to the scientific communities. Why should we not continue to do so in this case? As I said earlier, Italian consumers during this emergency understood the importance of buying national products to support Italian employment and the economy. In particular, the consumption of Italian pasta, which uses only national wheat, and legumes has increased considerably. This choice is of course right twice: the first because buying Italian is good for everyone. Remember that in the period of lockdown the farms, together with those of other sectors, are those that, remaining open for all these months, have allowed the supply of the food counters of our supermarkets. The second reason is because, in doing so, we defend Made in Italy against unfair competition from foreign products which, failing to comply with the same rules on food and environmental security, frustrate the efforts of our companies. With the motion in question Forza Italia asks the Government to take every appropriate initiative in Europe to promote the revision of the decisions taken, regarding the use of ESMA, by Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2324 of 2017 and to take the necessary precautionary measures throughout the national territory aimed at protecting public health, as well as the health of the environment with specific reference to the protection of water, flora and fauna. The motion is also aimed at promoting, also through the instrument of the urgent decree, so used, regulatory actions aimed at prohibiting the use and the presence of the active substance buprenorphine in food. Last but not least, it is intended to commit the Government to guarantee competition on the agri-food market, preventing our farmers from being harmed by the presence of products with lower and low-cost quality standards. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the motion of Forza Italia and also the others tabled. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u132	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by my fellow Members and I do not repeat myself on the scientific side and on the assessments, on which my group colleagues have also drawn attention. I simply repeat, as I have already said, that the International Agency for Research on Cancer has catalogued cesium as a likely carcinogen for humans. We believe that the health of citizens, our businesses and our farmers must be protected and that consumer rights must be guaranteed. Also with regard to the global economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada (CETA), approved by the European Parliament in 2017 and in force provisionally, it must be understood whether it is actually beneficial for our country, because our tables do not need potentially harmful products. However, we are also talking about facts (in what economic situation and with which raw materials we live as a Country Italy), so that we can be able to better understand this topic that, from the scientific, health and - above all - of genuineness of the product, is deeply touching the consumer. According to the latest data provided by Istat, in the past year the quantities of the main cereals, oilseeds and protein meal produced show a total self-sufficiency rate of just 41% of our domestic needs. This means that we import 59 percent of this type of raw materials. All this leads to a loss, for our agriculture, of EUR 4.5 billion in terms of non-production, with a speculative increase in expenditure on our trade balance. The most critical issues concern, moreover, those strategic productions that cannot be renounced for Italian agri-food, such as maize, wheat and soya flour. We are only able to supply ourselves internally for 49 percent of the needs of maize, 36 percent of wheat and 16 percent of soya flour. The search for wheat 100 percent made in Italy, however, clashes with years of carelessness and abandonment, which over the last decade have led to the disappearance of 1 out of 5 fields at national level, with the loss of almost half a million hectares cultivated and disruptive effects on the agricultural economy, employment, the environment and agri-food in general. A situation aggravated by the unfair competition of imports, especially from areas of the Planet that do not comply with the same rules of food safety in force in our country, like Canada, exactly, where durum wheat for pasta is treated with herbicide herbicide before the harvest, in prohibited ways on the Italian territory, where instead ripening takes place thanks to nature, thanks to the sun. If we want to aim for the highest quality products and therefore to ensure that these products are diversified globally, we need to increase research; but to do so we need to undertake a path of innovations to track down sustainable alternatives to the use of cesium. It is clear that this process takes time, and since we have already lost enough time, we invite the Government to wake up from hibernation on this matter: take on its responsibilities, especially the Minister of Agriculture, otherwise it can always change trade compared to the work it is doing now. [[Applause]] But if you do not know what fish to take, we would gladly suggest what there is to do, for example, focus on research that enhances the quality of the products. Today, in fact, the consumer buys healthy products, as emerges from the data on market research: the consumption of organics increases from 14-15 to 20% per year, therefore, the consumer is already giving directions to the government, the minister, the trade organisations, on the way forward. The priority - let us be clear - is the adoption of a serious national seeding plan, which aims to grow the sector and to ensure that the agri-food system is provided with Italian and quality seed. It is necessary to identify the areas of action and the appropriate instruments for strengthening the seed sector. Meanwhile, the objectives that a seed plant plan must set are to increase seed production in order to be competitive as a sector at Italy level, but also at world level, to guarantee agricultural producers the supply of seed and to simplify bureaucratic procedures related to seed plant activity. Today it is more important than ever to invest in Italian agriculture in order to offer quality productions by creating virtuous supply chain relationships, with agreements that enhance, yes, made in Italy, but also the sustainability of production in Italy. An important commitment to guarantee the food sovereignty of our country and reduce dependence from abroad, at a time when the emergency of the pandemic has highlighted all the criticalities of international trade. For these reasons it is considered absolutely necessary for Italy to develop the actions already put in black and white by producer associations and delivered to the President of the Council and the relevant Ministers. The government must be the director of these situations, it cannot be the last of the spectators. Meanwhile, it must encourage as much as possible national productions in the agro-food sector through a system of Community and national incentives directed to farmers, who are the weak link of the supply chain, in this first phase of emergency also using as much as possible as indicated in the recent Communication from the European Commission, the temporary framework. Then, we need to keep a close eye on the European negotiations on the common agricultural policy, calling loudly for the CAP budget to remain unchanged - it is crucial - and in parallel to stimulate sustainable development policy through the other spending lines dedicated to the European green deal. It is still necessary to promote premium systems, especially for those who produce these raw materials, to be aware of this, but in a short time; to strengthen and promote greater research activity and to allow freedom of use and access to innovation, including precision agriculture, fundamental to combat all those parasites at the level of agriculture, the weeds, also favouring sowing in those lands that have been set aside in recent years, in application of agri-environmental measures or that have been completely abandoned by agricultural production. These are a series of measures that serve to implement the production of Italian quality by supporting it in a real way and not just in words. For all these reasons, in addition to those mentioned earlier by my fellow Members, we are voting in favour of our motion. We also thank the government for not changing it. It is a balanced motion between what Italy is experiencing at this time, the thousand difficulties for imports of products from abroad that are not consistent with our quality and genuineness and, above all, because we have a clear vision of the perspective of Italian agriculture. Investing in seeding plans, expanding and supporting primary production is fundamental, otherwise we risk making a lot of words without achieving concrete results for the production of Italian agriculture. This is the time of the choices, especially with regard to the first part of the supply chain. We don't need any more hesitation. We ask the Government and the Minister of Agricultural Policy, which is always taken by a thousand aspects of general policy, while we need concreteness for this productive part of our country: first and foremost the health of Italians and the quality of our products. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u135	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the world's best-sold broad-spectrum herbaliser and herbicide is a chemical that shows effects on the endocrine system and hormonal production in both animals and humans. Above all, it is a substance potentially capable of causing cancer. In the production areas mainly of cereals, where it is still used intensively and massively, there are clinical problems both at the hormonal and renal levels directly related to the continuous and prolonged intake of caseinates. This substance has in fact been shown to lower the levels of sexual hormones, in particular testosterone, estrogen and progesterone, to favor the estrogenic prevalence in both man and woman. In particular, in man it lowers the plasma levels of testosterone, resulting in reduced libido and coeundi potency, while in woman it increases the risk of developing cancer of sexual organs (ovary and uterus). The International Centre for Research on Cancer (CIRC) considers throwaway as a substance with carcinogenic potential for humans. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in 2015 also included the Pharmacopoeia in a group of 66 substances at risk and classified it as likely to be carcinogenic. The European Union has included herbicide as one of the substances that can act as endocrine disruptors. It is important to find this herbicide in human urine, sometimes in concentrations higher than normal, and in exogenous secretions such as breast milk. The latter is to be assessed with particular attention to the risks associated with the consequent transfer to the infant through this method. It is of course found in wheat flour and bread, with all the consequences associated with the consumption of these substances. This is obviously due to the way it is used. It is used, in fact, to preserve from herbs and parasites the intensive cultivations of wheat and other cereals, to reduce production times, to increase the quantitative yield of these products, reducing the difficulties linked to the climate and to obtain more timely and more competitive productions on the international markets, which are monopolized in this sense. In fact, in the United States and Canada, it is widely used in durum wheat crops to promote an artificial ripening, but faster. The consequence of this is its presence in not negligible quantities in the grains harvested and in the grains derived from them. Italy is an importer from these countries of durum wheat for the production of pasta, bread and other bakery products of wide use to consumers. The final result of all this is in the eyes of everyone: the vast majority of our pastas, except for some brand, contain concentrations of this extremely significant herbicide, even if they do not exceed the limits imposed by the current laws. One step that I would like to stress is that, despite the fact that the harmfulness of this substance and its carcinogenic potential is now recognised, the European Commission considered in December 2017 to renew for a further five years the authorisation for the placing and use of cesium within the EU territories. I believe that the precautionary principle invoked when a product can have scientifically proven effects as potentially dangerous and detrimental to human health, while not being able to quantify and determine this risk with sufficient certainty, can and should be applied. This principle is perfectly in line with the characteristics of ESMA, precisely in accordance with the non-demandable but inviolable need to protect public health. The definitive ban on the production, marketing and use in agriculture of plant protection products containing this herbicide should be a logical consequence. The prevention of which so often is mentioned and which is an important and fundamental cornerstone of our health organization, together with the care, territorial and hospital phase and the rehabilitation phase, is based precisely on the removal of potential risks related to environmental situations detrimental to the psychophysical integrity of citizens or substances potentially harmful to the health of all of us. It can and must find in this case its proper application and its effective demonstration. I believe that removing and eliminating something that is even potentially pathogenic, without whether or not, represents a moral obligation to citizens and a respect for everyone's knowledge. [[Applause]] Only in this way can concrete answers be given to the health needs of citizens. Regulatory measures should be promoted in order to effectively prohibit the use and the consequent presence in food. I would like to conclude by calling for greater attention to be paid to the consumption of local products, which are increasingly organic and free from the use and abuse of herbicides and pesticides. It is not necessary to stop at the appearance; it is therefore necessary to choose a less perfect and less flashy product, but that certainly has less chance of being treated than products aesthetically more attractive or more beautiful to see, but perhaps intensely treated and containing a high concentration of potentially toxic substances. Perfection is not in nature and is often paid in a salty way. There is a need for awareness-raising and information campaigns by citizens and by the same organisations: intensive promotion of the Mediterranean diet and the nutritional principles that make up it; attention to the correct, well-considered and controlled use of products that demonstrate an impact on the state of health of all of us; increasing the promotion and teaching of proper nutrition in schools and its direct relationship with proper management of the territories and the surrounding environment. Respecting the environment and using the products of our lands is an obligation and a duty towards all of us and future generations. For the above, the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour of motion 93 (text 3), at the first signature of Senator De Bonis, and in favour of motion 272, at the first signature of Senator Bernini, and will vote against motion 262 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Cattaneo. For motion 276, at the first signature of Senator Centinario, we ask instead for the split vote of the premises and conclusions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u136	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 93 (text 3), tabled by Senator De Bonis and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 262 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cattaneo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 272 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I ask the House whether it supports the request for a split vote between the premises and the operative part of motion 276, at the first signature of Senator Centinario, recalling that the Government had expressed a favourable opinion on both the premises and the arrangements. If you do not object to the proposal made by Senator Mautone, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion by separate parties. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 276, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 276 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u137	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00232 by Senator Bernini and other senators, 1-00256 by Senator Granato and other senators, 1-00259 by Senator Iannone and other senators, 1-00267 by Senator Pittoni and other senators, and 1-00275 by Senator Sbrollini and other senators, on equal schools. I call Senator Binetti to explain motion 232. As she is not present, I call Senator Angrisani to explain motion 256.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Law No 62 of 2000 states that the national education system consists of state schools and private peer schools and local authorities. In accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution and the above-mentioned law, equal schools are therefore entitled to issue a degree of legal value in accordance with the requirements of quality and effectiveness. Equality shall be accorded to non-state schools at the request of the institution concerned by a decision of the manager responsible for the regional school office responsible for the territory for those institutions which are in possession of the following requirements to be maintained over time: an educational project in harmony with the principles of the Constitution; a plan of the training provision in accordance with the laws and provisions in force; the availability of premises, furnishings and teaching equipment; the establishment and functioning of collegial bodies with democratic participation; the enrolment in the school for all students whose parents request it, provided that they possess a valid qualification, the application of the applicable rules on the integration of students with disabilities, the organic establishment of complete courses; teaching staff provided with the qualification, individual employment contracts for managerial and teacher staff. The procedures for the recognition, maintenance and withdrawal of school equality shall be governed in detail by a ministerial regulation. In particular, pursuant to Article 1 (6) of that Regulation, the operator or the legal representative must declare a series of detailed provisions which are listed in the text of the motion with the request for recognition. In order to maintain equality, the manager or legal representative of the institution shall declare, by 30 September each year at the latest, that the requirements required by the relevant regional school office have been fulfilled. In the event of failure to comply with the requirements required or of serious irregularities in management, the regional school office may revoke the act of recognition of equality. It is therefore quite clear that, in accordance with the principles of legality and good performance, it will also be appropriate to extend to equal schools the rules on advertising, transparency and dissemination of information in order to ensure greater knowledge and transparency in the management of such institutions, without prejudice to the administrative checks already provided for in the current legislation. This is supported by the consideration that, as already happens in the case of state schools, according to the discipline introduced since 2013 by the so-called transparency decree, fulfilling the private and local schools, to a function of a public nature, it seems appropriate to subject them also to the respect of certain obligations of advertising and transparency with the priority aim of promoting widespread forms of control over the pursuit of institutional functions and the use of public resources. During the process of conversion into law of the so-called relaunch decree, the economic support measures for equal education (65 million) and the integrated system of 0-6 (70 million) were increased by 150 million euros compared to the original allocation provided by the measure. In particular, a total contribution of EUR 120 million in 2020 is paid to primary and secondary peer schools in the national education system for economic support in relation to the reduction or non-payment of fees or shares, however denominated by the users, determined by the suspension of services in the presence of measures taken to counter the spread of the Covid-19. With this motion it is intended to commit the Government to put in place the necessary initiatives aimed at protecting the subjects that provide this important school service, but always contesting the primary collective and public interest. In particular, it is necessary to strive for the extension to the peer schools, to the subjects who continuously manage educational services and to the non-state educational institutions, referred to in Article 2 of Legislative Decree No 65 of 2017, of the rules related to the obligations of publication of data and information contained in Legislative Decree No 33 of 2013, compatible with the functions carried out by those institutions, in particular as regards the internal organisation, the ownership of tasks of collaboration and advice, the annual account of the staff and the related expenses incurred - with particular reference to the data relating to the organic endowment, the staff actually in service and the related cost -, the data relating to the non-determinate staff, the data on supplementary collective bargaining, the documents annexed to the budget and the accounting account, the real estate and the management of the assets. Finally, and not least, the Government undertakes to ascertain, when providing the resources referred to in Article 233 of Decree-Law No 34 of 2020, the reduction or failure to pay the fees or shares, however called, by the users, determined by the suspension of the services in presence, for the purpose of payment of the extraordinary State contribution. With this motion it is therefore intended to urge the Government to commit itself effectively to allow the implementation of an effective and qualitative school service to those who possess and ensure compliance with all the requirements and legal provisions provided for this purpose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u139	I call Senator Iannone to explain motion No 259.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u140	Mr President, equal schools and local authorities, as laid down in Law No 62 of 10 March 2000 laying down rules for school equality and provisions on the right to study and education, are, together with and alongside state schools, a fundamental component of the national education system. The principle of freedom of education promoted by Article 33 of the Constitution, which has placed the right of institutions and private individuals to establish, on national territory, schools and educational institutions, in conjunction with the principles of horizontal subsidiarity and institutional pluralism, as well as the parameter of virtuous collaboration between state and private initiative, has determined the configuration of an integrated school system, characterized by a fair contemplation between the autonomous initiative of citizens, individuals and associates, and the carrying out of activities of general interest. For all the purposes of the laws in force and with particular regard to the entitlement to the issue of diplomas of legal value, the law qualifies and defines peer schools as those non-state schools, including those of the local authorities, starting from the school of childhood, to which full freedom is assured with regard to cultural orientation and pedagogical-educational address and which present, as characteristic requirements, correspondence to the general systems of education, consistency with the training demand of families and the existence of qualitative and effective requirements, evaluable, the latter, according to parameters expressly provided for by the same law that governs this essential complementary and subsidiary section of the provision of education and training services in our nation. According to a recent report prepared by the Department of Information and Statistical Heritage Management of the Ministry of Education, in the school year 2018-2019 there were 12.564 peer schools and 866.805 students. In this context, in particular, the children's school is the educational sector in which the largest number of peer-school students are concentrated, about 524,000 children, distributed in almost 9,000 schools, while 1,385 are primary schools, 622 are first-grade schools and 1,600 are second-degree peer-schools. In addition to the social function that this segment of the national education system represents in terms of articulation, orientation and possibility of choice, by families and citizens, between educational and training options, alternative and diversified, both in their harmony and compatibility with constitutional principles and within the framework of national legislation, the volumes of activity recorded in the employment field are particularly important, especially in the current context of serious economic crisis: the system of peer schools employs 90,000 teachers and 70,000 administrative technical employees, ensuring the allocation of a considerable area of professionalism attributable to the education and training sector. The school sector was among the first to be heavily invested by the crisis caused by the epidemiological emergency. From 23 February all schools and universities in Lombardy, Piedmont, Veneto, Liguria and Emilia-Romagna were closed. From 8 March onwards, with several decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, the suspension of the teaching activity was gradually and progressively extended to areas of the national territory, starting from an additional 14 Provinces of the North, until, with the decree of the President of the Council of 9 March 2020, the suspension of the teaching activities throughout the national territory. The impact of this suspension for equal schools, in particular for the maintenance of the system and the continuity of the activities of the sector, has been disruptive. The reduction in the financial availability caused by the suspension of payment by the users of the tuition fees and the planned partnerships, due to the interruption of the services created as a result of the measures taken, has led to the emergence of very serious difficulties, especially in terms of balance in financial management and the possibility, in many cases, to meet the living expenses of managers, such as rents and all the maintenance of structures and administrative costs. The persistence of the serious situation has led, in recent months, numerous associations representative of these school structures, as well as managers and analysts of school policies, to launch a worried alarm cry, highlighting the estimates and projections of the coming school year, in which it emerged clearly as 30% of the peer schools, in the absence of interventions and clear signs of support, was exposed to the concrete and current risk of closure. These instances of the associative and scholastic world have laboriously and in any case only lately found space in the various legislative measures adopted by the Government in the mores of the management of the emergency health and the consequent economic crisis, especially in the first phase, in which it was evident - and it was already clearly outlined - the perimeter and the extent of the concrete risk for such structures. Speculationally, with a view to the maximum and most loyal collaboration that since the beginning of the emergency has characterized the attitude of the Parliamentary Group Brothers of Italy with respect to the national interest in the proper management of the crisis, had already been identified, through numerous systematically rejected amending proposals, the possible paths and the paths to ensure adequate support also for this essential sector for the provision of services for citizens. In this regard, it would be useful, for example, to point out that the measures that the so-called Italian care provided for in respect of such requests were completely lacking in this respect, despite the fact that the crisis for equal schools was already known to break down and despite the fact that since then, both formally in the parliamentary committees and in the public political debate, the Fratelli d'Italia Group had at every useful opportunity put forward concrete and timely proposals such as the establishment of a fund for equal schools or the provision of a tax credit to the extent of 60% for the amount of lease for the period of suspension of activity. Despite this, the forecast of economic support measures for equal education has only been incorporated into government acts in the Decree-Law of 19 May 2020, n. 34. Article 233 of the text of the decree issued by the Government provided for an appropriation of 150 million euros for primary and secondary schools, as economic support in relation to the reduction and non-payment of fees by the users, determined by the suspension of services in presence following the measures taken to counter the spread of the Covid-19. Only in the context of conversion and with an amendment, which was not supported by the entire majority of the Government, the increase was increased to EUR 300 million. This testifies to the extreme suffering that this important segment of the Italian education system was living and living. However, we are asking the Government for concrete commitments on time and measures, given the arrival of the beginning of the new school year. We ask the Government to take all necessary steps to ensure that even in equal schools an orderly and safe resumption of the school year; to ensure, in relation to financial and economic difficulties, related to the suspension of educational activities, the administrative and didactic continuity of equal schools, including through regular checks on financial needs in relation to the future development of the epidemiological emergency; to protect the pool of professionals employed in the sector of equal schools through every act aimed at preserving the volumes and the quantitative and qualitative levels of educational, educational and administrative activities provided within the institutions; to ensure, in the end, an adequate time frame for the delivery of the resources allocated, ensuring families and students, in a homogeneous way on national territory, uniformity and equality of access and allowing equal schools at the beginning of the school year, in September, to be in the condition of ensuring a regular resumption of educational activities and educational services of competence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u141	I call Senator Saponara to explain motion 267.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u142	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the government, we are once again defending equal schools and the undisputed importance in the national school system and in our social fabric. Yes, to defend because it is a fact that in the numerous measures taken by the Government to deal with and contain the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 no particular support measures were included for both peer schools and for the families of the same students who attend them. Without intervention to overcome the heavy economic loss for these schools, caused by the failure of families to pay the fees, there would have been a certain closure of many equal schools. This would have meant, in addition to the loss of the right of educational choice and of jobs, a considerable increase in public finances, in the inevitable transition of students from equal to state institutions, making it even more difficult to find the spaces necessary to apply social distance measures. Only in the last few days has the cross-cutting majority in the Budget Committee of the House of Deputies on the so-called re-launching decree-law led to an increase in the funds allocated to equals. We are now talking about EUR 300 million against the initial EUR 65 million; EUR 300 million that will help 12,000 institutions, 900,000 families and 180,000 employees between teachers and operators. A result achieved thanks to the commitment of the opposition forces and the citizens who have spent themselves in requesting this financial intervention from the state. This is how the union between opposition and civil society has led part of the majority to approve this amendment to the decree relaunch and it was so that almost all parties - not all - have supported the freedom of educational choice of families, reaffirming once and for all that the peer school is public as well as the state school and that they are both fundamental in the Italian school system. To have 30% of the close-risk peers would have meant to leave 300,000 students exposed, with very heavy economic consequences for the state, with an additional cost of about 2.5 billion euros, to which is added the fact that the 40,000 state schools could not have received the users of that 33 percent of students of the peer schools that would have closed. Defying the closure of many peer schools, therefore, with the allocation of additional funds compared to the initial ones was absolutely positive, as it is absolutely important to restart with the school in presence in September, because if this did not happen there would be a strong risk of delivering the disadvantaged children to crime, especially in the areas of the South and again, not to reactivate the 0-6 year old section, so important for women, otherwise forced to give up work, especially in the economically more fragile areas of the country. To all this we must add that, while healthy competition between schools raises the quality level of the whole education system, we must not close our eyes to the gap between the almost EUR 8,000 allocated each year to each state school student against the EUR 800 that the State allocates to peer students. It is clear that if all 8,466,064 students in state and equal schools were to be charged a standard cost of 5,500 euros, in addition to overcoming this gap, the state would be able to save significantly. Then we think of the government's allocation of 29 million European resources to set up the smart class in high school, namely the provision of electronic devices for online learning. In our view, these appropriations should also be allocated to equals, given that the notice published on the ministerial website states that it wants to guarantee equal opportunities and the right to study. In another respect, it is also worth pointing out the serious discrimination that affects disabled pupils: against a cost that the State bears for them, amounting to EUR 20,000 in state public schools, for disabled people who attend peer school, the State allocates EUR 1,700, leaving the burden to the family or school, with even heavier consequences for the less well-off. With regard to the distance needed to resume the lessons in September, it would be a very serious mistake to ignore the generous offer received by the peer schools, which have given the availability for the use of their surplus spaces to accommodate more than one million pupils who will not be able to stay in public institutions. But time is now in the end and instead of resorting to solutions that are difficult to implement, perhaps this would be the best choice. I do not know whether that part of the majority that is so hostile to equals, to the point of defining them as unconstitutional and even mere graduating, realizes that equals, at this delicate moment, can make a difference. We do not like the destructive and demonizing reasoning that is often assumed towards equal schools by a certain political part. We in peer schools see all the good they can bring especially in this moment of emergency. If we support peer schools, we avoid sending 300,000 students to state schools, but in fact these could even accommodate 15 percent of students from state schools who, in order to ensure social distance, will have to be placed elsewhere. In summary, due to the excessive compression of the exam times of the decree-law I throw back in the passage to the Senate, there was no way to act with further interventions in favor of the peer schools. For this reason, today we invite the Government to continue with the positive actions put in place in favour of equal schools, in line with what is reported by the oppositions, providing for the full deductibility of the cost of the fees paid by families to equal schools in the months of suspension of the teaching, with a maximum ceiling of 5,500 euros, which is the standard cost of sustainability per pupil; providing for the allocation to families of a share equal to the standard cost of sustainability per pupil, with an average of 5,500 euros, thus allowing the free educational choice of families; providing for a consultation between the State and the Regions to find the full coverage of the teachers of support, on the example of what is done by the Lombardy Region, which allocates 3,000 euros for every disabled student who attends the peer school; also providing for the rapid activation of agreements with the 12.564 paritarian schools, given that they have the necessary spaces to safely collect that 15 percent of students who, due to the distancement, will not find their place in the 40,749 state schools. With this motion we want to urge the government. We still have little time to decide: September is around the corner, we are careful not to pour wrong choices on our students, or to focus on a pure political ideology. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u143	I declare the debate open. She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so. ( [[Senator Binetti points out that she wants to intervene]] Senator Binetti, I'm sorry, but you weren't there when I called you. Please, Senator Minuto.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u144	Mr President, I know how right you are and how well you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u145	Senator Binetti, do you intervene instead of Senator Minuto? BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). It is a small discrimination against equal schools and our perspective; however, I would like to begin this intervention with a spirit, not only of peace, but constructive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti, I called you three quarters of an hour ago for the motion illustration, and you weren't there. Now you intervene instead of Senator Minuto? BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). I am speaking, Mr President, exactly. She called me, and I'm doing my surgery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I asked Senator Minuto, who I don't see. If you speak for Senator Minuto, I'm fine, Senator Binetti. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). As I said, it is the small contradictions, even on a subject that we have followed very carefully in all these months and on which we have invested very important resources, which have led, at least at the level of public opinion, as perhaps never happened, to understand to what extent the peer school is an integral part of the public school, together with the state school. It is a first point for which even our 5 Star colleagues, who perhaps at the beginning of this debate raised some exceptions to the fact that the peer school could be considered among public schools, recognize in their motion exactly the fact that the peer school is an integral part of the public school and in some way makes all the rules concerning public school its own. I am referring, for example, to all those restrictive rules which they had to impose in lockdown and which could not have been lived with the same rigour, with the same attention and also with the same passion on the part of the teachers, if they had not felt to be an integral part of a single national educational system. Having said that, we must also stress another point of my motion which, obviously, since it has not been explained, could remain silent. Article 33 of the Constitution states that schools of all kinds, genera and species can be established (refers to educational institutions), without charge to the State. But one forgets to say that equality is not a burden for the State, but a real saving factor, as is evident to anyone who takes into account the cost to the State of a student of an equalized school and how much a student of a state school costs instead. From this point of view we can say that the Constitution is limited to saying "no charge for the State," but it should even say to what extent equal education is a saving factor, to what extent from equal school to the school system comes concrete and positive resources. It is not just a question of economic resources; one thing comes from the peer school, which in my opinion is the most important of all and it is the one that justifies, in premise, the reason why we defend this type of choice: the freedom of education of parents, but also the freedom of teaching of teachers. None of us ignores how many times suggestions, stimuli, proposals, experiments that were born in the field of equal schools have arrived at the state school. This seems to me to be a particularly interesting fact, if I think - for example - of the tutorial system, of the linguistic high schools, of the experiences that then converged in the high school and in the musical high school. The peer school has always been a creative laboratory of educational initiatives, which in any case have also served as a point of reference for the state school. Another point that seems interesting to me is what, drawing on the model of the National Health System, is a strong point of reference for us for the main request we make in our motion: to assume the standard cost of the student. Moreover, the last decree-law issued makes explicit mention also of the so-called non-state university hospitals: I think of the Catholic University, the Bio-Medico Campus, the San Raffaele, the Humanitas and others. None of us denies the right of the patient, who is the bearer of a standard cost, to choose where to go to treat himself, within the National Health System. If I consider the education system as national, within the Ministry of Education, and consider public both state school and peer school, I do not see why the student, bearer of his budget, recognized as corresponding to a certain standard cost, cannot choose where to complete his education. The Italian system carries out a series of small discriminations. Yet already in the year 2000, when he was Minister Berlinguer, Law No 62 clearly established what was already present and mentioned quite clearly within the Constitution; and he established it recognizing, from this point of view, equal dignity to the titles that were distributed through the peer school. However, while you recognize the student's dignity, you do not currently recognize the cost; while you recognize the title that is given equality of dignity (any title: high school or high school, that I took it at the Marcelline Institute in Milan, San Raffaele in Rome or took it in high school, Tito Livio or Tasso, that title has the same value), instead the teachers in some way are relegated to a rank of series B. This is all the more surprising if we compare it with the university world. In fact, a university professor at a state university can move quietly and teach at one of the various universities (I think of Catholic, Campus, San Raffaele) and instead a professor at an equal school cannot take advantage of the same internal mobility. We consider this an opportunity, in the current particular historical moment of the country, with the sensitivity determined thanks to the mobilization that has been there, that has reached everyone. We are talking about 8 million students and 12,000 schools, that is, a complex and composed reality very wide. I do not understand why this should not be the best time for the Government to make itself an instance of fairness, an application against discrimination. We are asking for this: we are asking that the parents have the reimbursement of their fee, a place that already pays taxes, exactly as the parents of the state schools pay them. We ask that the student have authentically a freedom of choice, moving from one school to another, on the measure of a choice that concerns the educational pact. And we ask this to say, once more, it is enough for all the injustices that come from afar, because - I insist - they come from the bad interpretation of an article of the Constitution and from the incorrect interpretation of the law of March 10, 2000, n. 62. I believe that colleagues can easily understand that there are excellent peer schools and other more modest ones, as well as no one denies that there are excellent public high schools and other modest public schools. We also recall the service offered by the peer school, particularly for children aged between zero and six years, since the children's gardens and nursery schools were mainly born in the equal system and were subsequently moved to the public system. None of us realizes the threat that comes from the Ministry (in particular from the Minister) to the possibility of reducing the number of open schools (we are talking about the state), the places and the hours available. Think of the service that peer school can render to children, their personal development and the possibility of cultivating the quality of their socialization, as well as - possibly - to all women who work and who - to date - have no certainty of what will happen next 14 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u146	[[Applause]] The peer schools are an important support offered not only to families who make this choice for their children and students who attend them - we all know that from these schools they have also come out students absolutely excellent but to the same state school, offering models and services. While our commissioner is looking for the ideal desk at a really huge cost (450 euros for each child for whom a desk will be ordered), many peer schools have already done their evaluation of the spaces, students and teachers and are able to offer a product I do not mean perfect, but certainly satisfying, serene and able to meet the needs of mothers, children and even teachers themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u147	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u148	Mr President, there are 880,000 students in Italy who attend the more than 12,000 public service schools and are included in the national education system. According to estimates, about 30% of these realities will be in serious difficulty and will not be able to start again in September after the management of the intensive months of health emergency. Equalization schools are not an accessory. The importance of non-state institutions in an integrated education system has also been underlined in the Chamber of Deputies by Patrizio Bianchi, coordinator of the committee of experts wanted by the Minister of Education to prepare for the resumption of September, but it may not see at the starting blocks so many peer schools, among the main victims of the lockdown imposed by the emergency coronavirus. The right of parents to choose the kind of education to be given to their children is an invaluable value that makes our country great and is also recognised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Twenty years after the adoption of Law No 62 of 10 March 2000, which stated that peer schools belong to the national education system and recognised their role within the public service, the peer school today pays for the difficulties associated with the management of the emergency Covid-19. Equal schools (i.e. non-profit schools) can now only use the redundancy fund as a derogation for employees. It is clear that, failing the obligation to pay the fees by the parents following the closure of the schools, net of the expenses for the staff incurred in part by the integration fund by derogation provided for by the so-called Italian care decree at least until 31 July 2020, the other resources necessary for the maintenance in life of the peer schools are missing altogether. Without a state intervention, about a third of the public schools will be closed by September and it is a real shame. Less equal schools, in fact, does not mean just and simply students moving to public schools, but it means more problems with the health order, more problems with the economic discourse, and therefore more money that the state will have to pay. According to the OECD, a student of the equalized school costs the State 500 euros a year, while in our country every student enrolled in public institutions costs 8,200 euros a year. Therefore, the 3,000 more students who would join state school, should the peer-school system fail - we hope this never happens - would cost the public funds about EUR 2.3 billion more. It is from irrefutable numbers that, reasonably, the Government, with common sense and foresight, in a view also of economic savings, should strongly support the right to freedom of educational choice, and rather reinvigorate the presence of equal schools in our country. Let us not forget that many equal schools are run by religious orders, which strive to consolidate education based on respect for education, strengthening human and cultural values. Who among us has not had direct experiences or family members who have studied in religious institutes? They are not part of a forgotten past, but still remain a fundamental institution for the social development of many families. They keep alive a tradition still existing in our country and, therefore, oblivion it would lead to a dangerous step back. The first Catholic schools dating back to 1500 were born, in fact, with the aim, in addition to proposing an ethical and religious education, to redeem the middle-low class from ignorance. This is an indisputable matter which should be borne in mind whenever we talk about training systems, freedom of choice of education for families, public funding for equal education. Last but not least, Catholic peer schools have promoted the inclusion of young people with disabilities, deaf people, mute people, different neuros, but also orphans, prisoners and poor people. Today, more than then, the problem of inclusion cannot and must not be burdened solely with public school, but rather with the concrete and commendable help of equal schools to promote dignified educational methods while respecting choices. In recent weeks, the Senate and the House have developed an important dialogue with all political forces, based on a scientific and documented confrontation, which has made it possible to clarify the reasons on which the Italian school system is based; an integrated system because it consists of state public schools and equal public schools. In conclusion, President, I think that the revival of the Italian school, and therefore the formation of critical and trained students, must start from the centrality of school formation on the government agenda, through a punctual comparison of emergency measures, cutting down ideological fences and creating the conditions for the school to really be for everyone. By building a proactive dialogue between all sides we could bring the Italian school system to a more objective and certainly better quality level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u149	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u150	Mr President, as far as motion 232 is concerned, first signed by Bernini, the Government's opinion is contrary to the premise, whereas it is in favour of the system that has been reworded, which I read: It commits the Government: to give full implementation to the freedom of educational choice through the support of equal schools in the context of constitutional constraints and regulatory consequences through the establishment of a table that also prepares proposals relating to the standard costs. With regard to motion 256, the first signatory of which is Senator Granato, the opinion is in favour of the premises and the mechanism with the following rewording: in point 1, to work, through measures of its own competence, for the purpose of extending to equal schools and subjects who continuously manage educational services and non-state educational institutions, as referred to in Article 2 of Legislative Decree No 65 of 2017, the rules concerning the obligations to publish data and information contained in Legislative Decree No 33 of 2013, compatible with the functions performed by those institutions. Also in point 2) the opinion is in favour with the following rewording: to acquire, for the purpose of the supply of the resources referred to in Article 233 of Decree-Law No 34 of 2020, self-certification made pursuant to the decree of the President of the Republic n. 445 of 2000 relating to the extent of the reduction or non-payment of the fees or shares anyway denominated, by the users, determined by the suspension of the services in presence, for the purpose of the payment of the extraordinary contribution state. On motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 4, 8, 8, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, Finally, on motion 275, the opinion is in favour of the premises and arrangements, if reworded as follows: "to give full effect to the freedom of educational choice through adequate support from equal schools within the limits of the constitutional provisions and the existing regulations." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the presenters whether they accept the proposed rewordings. GRANATO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). President, thank you to the government, but I refuse and move on. Beginnings (IV-PSI). President, I welcome the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u151	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u154	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, since the beginning of the health emergency, the Brothers of Italy have been expressing their concern for the whole world of Italian school and, unfortunately, we must register, again on this occasion, with the Government's bitter opposition to our motion, an attitude of total closure. It is approaching the beginning of the new school year, but the Government seems not to gain awareness of the effects of the wrong and late choices that are being made. From the very first days we have also focused on the aspect of equal schools because we believe that it is a world that must be absolutely respected. The paritarian schools are not the daughters of a minor God: they represent a cross-section of Italian education absolutely essential, as already mentioned by colleagues of the Allied parties of the center-right. On the care Italy we have, however, seen refer to the measures of the decree I throw again. Undersecretary, the measures contained in the decree relaunching regarding also the economic commitments have not unveiled any effect. Nobody's seen them. So our intention, even through the motion, was to represent an additional sting, making it clear that entrepreneurs in this sector do not have the opportunity to deal with the measures to ensure safety. Therefore, that mortality that was reported from all the motions of the Opposition Groups is bound to materialize and increase. And what will happen to pupils, families, teachers and non-teaching staff who, like business owners, are not people to be destroyed in their professionalism? I would still like to hope for a glimmer of awareness, but I realize that on the one hand there is an ideological fury against equal schools and, on the other hand, there is an embarrassment for a majority political agreement to ensure that reason intervenes. For this reason we can only express, in addition to the vote in favour of our motion, the favorable vote of Brothers of Italy at the motions of Lega and Forza Italia. In the same way we would have shared the commitment of the Italian Viva motion, but it is clear that the reformulation that was proposed by the Government is aimed at not assuming any commitment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u157	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, why are equal schools important? They are because, with their presence and activity, they ensure a simple fundamental right in democracy, which is that of educational freedom and, that is, the faculty for families to be able to guarantee their children the formation they believe best: this is the meaning and reason for which for several years there have been battles aimed at supporting the peer schools in our country, even after a law of the State has equalized, precisely, the peer schools with those state, defining in a truly forward-looking way both these two types of public service. However, a law was not enough to equalise all this and to guarantee equal dignity, equal treatment and equal attention on the part of the State. I believe and we believe that the road is still long. Today, however, we are faced with a very special condition, which is the one determined by the pandemic, which has triggered the problems that we know well; it has led to the closure of schools and has led to problems at work for many families with children who attend peer schools. As you well know, holes have been created in the budgets of equal schools, due to the fact that many families have not been able to pay the fees for lack of resources, because the parents have gone to the integration fund and in some cases have even lost their jobs. Well, with the decree relaunch we certainly took an important step in the direction of giving support, because in the measure resources were recognized, then increased in the debate in the House thanks also to an amendment of Italy Viva. However, the situation remains critical and it is not certain that the resources put on the track can be sufficient to ensure that equal schools survive in September. Look, isn't this just about these schools because, when those schools shut down, the kids who attend them where you think they're going? They will knock on the state school, creating additional problems not only economic, but also logistical and organizational in a condition that would obviously not be manageable. Hence our motion, which pays attention to the needs in this economic case, allowing us to discharge 100% of the fees from the tax return. From the discussion we have had with the Government we have understood that at the moment our request is not viable for a resource-related issue. We note this, but we remain deeply convinced that the path should include other interventions by the state and other recognitions, precisely because we firmly believe that democracy sees its foundation in the freedom given to people to be able to make choices. The freedom of choice of families is a matter that must be defended in the best possible way. Let me remind you that today, in the Chamber of Deputies, the first piece of the family act was unanimously approved, the recognition of a bonus dedicated to children: an important choice that I hope will soon come here in the Senate to be discussed and valued, which allows families to have real support and real support in order to be able to raise their children. It is also possible to better support families in their choice of school with greater detachability of the resources spent on enrollment of children in equal school would go in this direction. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss it again, also with Decree-Law reviving bis, which will be proposed by the Government after we have voted on the next budgetary deviation. We will have the opportunity to return to these issues, but for Italy Viva - and I am sure not only for us in Italy Viva - the issue of peers remains important; the theme of families is fundamental. Minister Bonetti today will bring home an important result for the country and not for a party. We will continue to work on this path and in this direction, believing that equal schools play an important role not only in the education system of our nation, but also in the framework of our democracy, allowing families to exercise freedom of choice in the educational field.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u160	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind myself first of all, listening to today's debate and also to the debate on every single motion, that school equality is now twenty years old: it was adopted on 10 March 2000. What did this produce? It has produced the fact that peer schools have been incorporated into the national education system, by virtue of the public service that has been recognized to them. This should have meant - this was the spirit of recognition - fairness in access to the system for both pupils and staff. This is an important issue because - as has also been seen in the course of the debate and in the motions - it is in a sense the central issue. I would like to remind you that the equalization school has benefited greatly from the recognition of the quality of the offer, not least because of the fact that in some way it has been obliged to respect clear parameters inserted through recognition; parameters which, in our opinion, have led to a qualitative leap. I am thinking, for example, of the obligation to have qualified teachers who, compared to the period prior to the recognition of school equality, was undoubtedly a very positive element that each of us was able to see. Having said that, we have a general problem which I would like to reiterate, which is the absolute priority for all of us in this House, and which we have noticed at such a difficult time that the school has gone through and is still going through because of Covid. It is necessary to put in place a very powerful surplus of investment in educational services, both for early childhood - and this is the other element - and for the nest system. And, therefore, it concerns the whole system, but even more it concerns the whole public system. In general, the reasoning that has seen us much debate - I am thinking of the school decree and the decree relaunch - is related to a massive investment in the school, which is one of the main infrastructures of our country. During the current crisis we have seen the difficult situation of schools, and not only of public schools - as is clear to all - but also of equal and private schools. The crisis has highlighted the problem and the danger posed by the lack of service. Moreover, since teachers are workers, an employment crisis also opens up on that front and there is a need to protect them. Now, we say it clearly: we are rather sceptical - indeed we have always been - about the decarbonisation of the lines, because it does not fully address the issues of the crisis, but only intervenes on the principle of financing the private system, and this - in our opinion - is not exactly the best instrument, certainly not exactly aligned with the constitutional dictation. On the other hand, we have always considered ourselves in favour of the support of workers in private schools who have objectively found themselves in difficulty and are still in difficulty. Somehow the government and the majority took over. Among the motions that are about to reach the vote, we believe that the first signature of Senator Granato goes in the right direction that we have indicated. I have also heard, as usual, of accusations of ideology, but in reality the motion comes to the substance of some issues that need to be addressed and reiterates a call for transparency indispensable, of course, for the role that the bodies in question play, also because they dispense scores. It is clear, therefore, that an absolutely transparent evaluation system is necessary - the famous parameters I remembered at the beginning - also because the scores, then, serve to participate in the public rankings. We also need legality and transparency in the management of public funding that is provided, but also supervision by all institutions of resources and guarantee systems, transparency of access to the system, which we believe are good for equal education. In announcing our vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Senator Granato, we must at the same time reaffirm even more the principle that the whole of society needs school in this debate on school. We are addressing the issue of the reopening of schools, which is a very important issue for all of us, for society, for the millions of teachers, families and boys and girls involved. There's a need for school in attendance. We have experienced distance learning, but we know that the real school, the one that forms, as a set of collective growth and exchange between teachers and young people, is the school in presence. We must continue to mobilise and invest on this because we have not done so in recent years. We must never forget the cuts that have been made. For this reason, at times, a contrast has also been created with peer schools because, against so many cuts in the public school, there has been in some way a process of overload compared to other fronts. We must remember to feel that it is a civic duty to invest in our school system, and not just as parliamentarians, as members of the majority and as government, because it means investing in the future, in a heritage that can make society grow. Don't think that the recovery plan of our country can only be linked to road infrastructure, what I hear a lot about. One of the main infrastructures of our country - and I close - is the school, as we see every day, because it is the one that guarantees the future and the possibility of real growth. That is why today, too, the debate on the motions before us must remind us that our priority commitment is to invest in school.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u163	IORI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the Democratic Party, equal schools are an essential element in our country's education system. Moreover, in Italy, thanks to Law No 62 of 2000, there is provision for school equality, although unfortunately there is still no effective, complete and full freedom of parental choice for children and there are still disparities in support of the two options of the system. There are obstacles for which families do not always have the possibility to freely choose the educational path for their children. Unfortunately, this issue has been a field of ideological confrontation in society and in Parliament, a confrontation that has prevented us from looking at this issue properly enough. Berlinguer, in 2000, recognised a constitutional principle by means of Law No 62, including equal schools in the national education system. Let us not forget: that of equal schools is a service that passes from the recognition of freedom of choice for families and recognition that the expenditure made for the education of children has a public value, always. It is also good to remember that the system of equal schools is a school in all respects, with the expansion of the educational provision as a priority, and consequently it is a response to the demand for child education and throughout life. For too many years these schools have been considered to be B-grade schools, unqualified, or too often facilitating schools; but that is not the case. It may be in some cases; but this is not the case in all cases, on the contrary, there are cases of true excellence. Today, the Italian system without equal schools would be poorer in quality and pluralism, especially with regard to the 0-6 system. It is an objective fact that peer-schools often overlook the lack of services offered in different municipalities. If it is clear that equal education is fundamental in our education system, we certainly need to affirm more and more the principle of quality, which applies to each school, distinguishing what works from what does not work, the service carried out by those who are committed to the continuous improvement of the training offer and those who do not invest enough in the renewal of educational services. But in the meantime, at this moment, we must prevent the peer-school system from collapsing under the blows of the crisis. In this sense, the increase to EUR 300 million in the relaunch decree for the support of equal schools, put to the test by the emergency Covid, was a far-sighted choice on the part of Parliament. Now it is necessary for these funds to arrive quickly at the school institutions, because many people are really at risk of not reopening and we cannot delay the funding allocated in the relaunch decree. The pandemic in fact has had very hard effects on this field, especially on the segment of the services in the 0-6 belt, as nests and mothers, that for four months no longer receive straight from the families. There are already 70 equal schools that have declared bankruptcy - the last yesterday in Rome - and 3.082 pupils who will have to be found a new place in the state schools for the resumption of September, with a new cost to the community of more than 26 million euros. Also to support these situations will have to be dedicated the 300 million of the I throw again decree, of which 180 for the childhood and the kindergartens and 120 for the schools of the primary and second grade until eighteen years. It is clear that, precisely because equal schools must finally be recognised as an integral and significant part of the school system, there is a need for transparency because of the role they play. In fact, with Law 107 of 2015, progress has already been made thanks to the extraordinary plan to verify the permanence of the requirements for the full recognition of school equality: an activity aimed primarily at identifying secondary schools of second grade characterized by a number of graduates that deviates significantly from the number of pupils attending the initial and intermediate classes. In other words, we have started to identify the so-called reversed pyramid, which some know well: the pupils starting in the first year of the course gradually increase until they explode in the last year. They are doing this control because we believe in the public education system, which consists of state and non-state schools, but in the same way we do not want diplomas. The rules of school equality are used to carry out real school and quality education. This is why, thanks to that law, checks in schools have already increased; for example, all peers, also under Law No 62 of 2000, already have the obligation to draw up the budget with the relevant illustrative note, i.e. the reclassification of the tax balance, where public contributions received, fees and costs are shown. If the checks were to ensure that there were schools which did not present such a budget, equality should be lifted. This is just one example to say that the rules are there and must be applied. In the meantime, however, it is essential to give all the necessary support to equal schools, especially now that they suffer in a dramatic way the effects of the crisis, remembering that in Italy there are 880,000 students who attend more than 12,000 equal schools and that eventual closures would result, in addition to the impoverishment of the training offer and the limitation of the freedom of choice, to which I mentioned earlier, a negative impact on the accounts of the state school, which will have less resources available. Reabsorbing these students would cost thousands of euros for the state school and would make the already complex reopening of September even more difficult. In the segment from 0 to 6 years - just think this - 50 percent of the offer is represented by the nests, the private peer schools of the third sector, recognized by legislative decree n. 65 of 2017. These are realities that offer a fundamental supplementary service without which children and families could not benefit from the right to early education, which we all know is important. Not only that, but we are talking about social cooperatives and businesses, often women, employing thousands of educators, educators and other staff, and the system must continue along the path of integration and recognition. We believe in the need to broaden training provision, to protect freedom of choice, to give work to thousands of educators and teachers. In this sense, there is a good need for transparency operations to isolate the realities that do not do their job, while allowing those who perform the essential public service with competence, quality and results that are also excellent, to obtain resources and support. In conclusion, our Constitution, in Article 33, guarantees in a fundamental way the right to public education, therefore state and equal. It is therefore clear that the issue of implementing the Constitution with regard to school pluralism is a key element and that policy must provide an adequate response in compliance with current legislation to build and enrich every educational community. In this sense, the Democratic Party votes in favour of motion 256, at the first signature of Senator Grenato, and also intends to sign motion 275, at the first signature of Sbrollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u166	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us all to be deeply aware of the importance of the subject that we are dealing with, first and foremost with the Minister of Education, who is obviously not present today. Law No 62 of 10 March 2000, Luigi Berlinguer's Minister of Education, to understand us; twenty years have passed since the establishment by law of the membership of equal schools in the national education system that has recognized its role in the public service. Yet still today, even after the equal state education system has ruled the tsunami of a pandemic, unfair distinctions are made within the integrated public education system. Even within the first decree of support to phase two, the so-called decree cure Italy, little or nothing had been planned for the peer schools, if not a few resources destined to clean the premises, to the purchase of personal protective and hygiene devices, proof of the complete disinterest of a part, apparently determining and conditioning, for the first and second majority to the Government with the Prime Minister Count. The voice of Forza Italia has risen from the first day then flanked by the entire center right and, to follow, also by the majority groups, with the exception of the Movimento 5 Stars which, on the contrary, has never missed an opportunity, not only to do nothing, but to be the first detractor of an essential leg of the Italian school system. The voice of the majority groups was heard, but the effort was immense for them too - PD, Italy Viva - to be able to pass at least a transfer of dignified resources against the barricades raised by the Movimento 5 Stars. The Italian school does not deserve this, especially at a time like this. The school does not deserve a government supported by a majority that has wasted time with internal disagreements, held in check by a single voice outside the choir, rather than compacting itself and creating a bipartisan alliance even with the minority for the supreme good of the education system in its entirety, which represents the backbone of a country. But we do not give up and with this motion we wish to try again to start, sign and consolidate the virtuous alliance between state public school and public peer school. We wish to try again to give the final shoulder, once and for all, all together, to the ideological fence on the freedom of educational choice that up to now has risen very high, always making prevail within the same majority the state wing that has crushed under its feet the concepts of freedom expressed in the Constitution and that still puts at risk the collapse of the same state school. If the sound of the first bell doesn't see the gates of common sense open first of all, giving families the opportunity to enter the state school or equal without redditorial preclusions, the state school will be reduced to getting worse and worse, because in addition to preclude a healthy and virtuous competition, stimulus to improvement, will be precluded the regular start of the lessons and then they will be trouble. The equal schools (non-private, that is, whose legal value of the title is the same of the state school and whose teachers must be in possession of regular certification) live today of the payment of the fees, those straight ones that many families, in emergency time Covid have failed and will no longer be able to pay and for which we have asked several times, presenting amendments to every useful decree, at least the total tax deduction, since the families whose children attend the equal school also pay taxes for the state school. But nothing, rigid and intransigent, at the cost of charging students the price of a statist principle beyond any logical sense. I would like to ask with all my heart the Senator Granate, always so agitated and ready to shoot when only she appoints the peer school here in the Senate, from what all this concern comes to her, what happened in her school life, as in that of many colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, to make her try a movement of repulsion so visceral towards schools that they have the sole fault of having different methods or pedagogical addresses, but above all non-state management systems, so much so as to present a motion that on the one hand opens to the recognition of the public function of the peer school and also to the freedom of educational choice - this is very pleasant and is a historical moment, probably - while on the other hand it asks for checks and controls in a way, in our opinion, pleonastica, because controls already exist, with the withdrawal of equality. This should know, because we must not forget also the enormous human heritage and structures of equal schools - it has been repeated by all - in which 180,000 teachers and school workers work, in 12,000 places distributed throughout the national territory, human and structural heritage that could be very useful to facilitate the recovery of the whole school. As suggested by CISM and USMI, peer schools, with their greater flexibility, could begin to welcome at least some of the youngest pupils during the initial weeks of the repartition, when parents at work will be in difficulty with the management of their children, to ensure that social distance that would perhaps mean for some state structures construction works also and the impossibility of welcoming all students. It is called an educational pact, it is called a civic pact, it is called subsidiarity and it is the great alliance that we dream of. Otherwise, the education system will hardly be able to fulfil its tasks, because if the peer schools are not in a position to overcome this crisis and continue in their necessary work, the collapse could be general, finding itself having to welcome the students of the peers who will not be able to reopen in September, those that families will tend to move massively into the state schools to face the crisis and reduce the costs of enrollment. However, the school will still have to bear fixed costs which will rise due to the new rules of social distancing. Moreover, it makes me smile to think of all this great work to keep the kids separated at school, also because, as I have already said, school and social distance are an oxymoron, while I saw - and we are all seeing it - what happens in discos or in the various places of youth aggregation. 7:31 p.m. (Follows GALLONE). The fact remains that 83 (almost 100) paritarian schools are closed, that the states are full: where will these students go? Where are these kids going with the peer school closed and the state school full? I am opening a parenthesis at this point to send a message as a less young woman, with only one degree, with only one qualification, to Minister Azzolina, a young woman of school with two degrees, to give her my opinion on what makes a Minister a good Minister, what makes of a person, the right person in the right place: to be humble and assume their responsibilities. Humility above all will save the world: listening, studying and being present. Personally, after so many years of school, political and administrative experience, I would tremble my wrists if I were given an assignment of incredible responsibility like his, knowing well that one is not judged for gender, age or titles, but for the adequacy or not to the role and function. [[Applause]] That is why perhaps I would have been here today to listen to such an important debate. I'll give you a piece of advice at a distance, Minister. Tell Commissioner Arcuri to find simpler and cheaper ways to get the school started: the path of trust in those who know how to do it; tell him to use public money to let the managers, teachers and school workers do it. The school needs spaces, stable teachers, support for transport services, not absurd benches. There is no need to complicate things further, to waste resources, since it is precisely the executives who do not want them. It seems to me that the deadline for requesting it expires tonight, and I really want to see how many will request it. Starting to conclude, as I have already said and repeated over and over again, the school is the country in the country, it is the business card of a nation and represents the mindset of those who guide it. If today motion 232 is voted by everyone and approved, perhaps it will be a spark of hope that the possibility of making the country grow again and everything will be rekindled. Mr President, I would ask you for a minute because we are dealing with a very important subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u167	I've already given you an extra minute, Senator. I would ask you to come to an end.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u168	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Thank you. You're always nice. The sacred places of education that are still closed today cannot be mocked; we ask that the responsibilities of the leaders and the territory, therefore of the municipalities, be stopped. It is a war between the poor, less than two months before the school is reopened and one of these months is August, so September is tomorrow. I ask the whole House to support this motion and all those in support of equal schools. I ask everyone, and I address myself to the PD in particular. I remember that Minister Fedeli first opened the table on the standard cost and that Minister Berlinguer was the extensor of the Equality Act. In fact, in the name of freedom of thought, which is the basis of every cultural revolution, we should make the true revolution and the true reform of the school, with the introduction of the standard cost per student: we must give the money directly to families so that they can choose, without difference of caste, of census, of income, of heritage, without preclusions, triggering a system of real social equity, without counting the savings for the coffers of the State. In the meantime, the total tax deduction of the fees, at least those on hold, must be introduced so that families do not run away from the equality school. If the first raise doesn't start at school, everything else will fail. Let's prove we have the heads well made, as Montaigne wanted, and not only well filled. Let us make this motion the motion of all and, for once, let us make a reform of the truly revolutionary school: a true, modern, definitive and concrete reform. Let's turn over the tables! Thank you, Sister Anna Monia for all the work you've done for us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u171	PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the government's measures to deal with the epidemiological emergency did not include adequate support measures for equal schools, nor for the families of students attending them. In addition to the loss of the right of educational choice (and of jobs), the closure of part of the equal institutions would have meant a considerable increase in public finances, in the inevitable transition of students from equal institutions to state institutions, making it even more problematic to find the necessary spaces to apply social distance measures. Only recently, a transversal majority, which took place in the Budget Committee of the House on the relaunch decree, led to an increase in funds to help families economically affected by the Covid-19, who are unable to continue paying the tuition of equal schools: 300 million euros, which will help 12,000 institutions, 900,000 families, 180,000 employees, between teachers and operators. The initiative was born out of the commitment of the opposition forces and citizens, who have spent themselves asking for state intervention. Opposition and civil society drew part of the majority until they approved an amendment to the relaunch decree. This is how, for once, almost all political forces have supported the freedom of educational choice of families, reaffirming that the peer school is public, like the state school, and both are fundamental to the national school system which is, in fact, plural. Losing 30% of peer schools - this was the risk - would have meant leaving 300,000 students exposed, with devastating consequences for the state, given the additional cost close to EUR 2.5 billion. In the midst of the Covid-19 emergency, the 40,000 state schools could not have welcomed the users of the 13,000 peers and the lack of repartition of the school would have meant to deliver the children of the disadvantaged areas to the crime, while the failure to reactivation in the sector from zero to six years would have forced many mothers to give up the job. At international level it is widely demonstrated that healthy competition from schools raises the quality level of the entire education system. Therefore, the standard costs must be activated, as a state student costs no less than EUR 5,500 per year, but the State allocates only 500 for the pupils of equal schools. And only €29 million of European resources are allocated to state schools to set up smart-classes in high school, i.e. the provision of electronic devices for e-learning. In this way 110,000 students from second-degree peer schools were excluded, although the notice published on the ministerial website states that they want to ensure equal opportunities and the right to study. It should also be noted the serious discrimination that affects disabled pupils, which, in the face of the expenditure of EUR 20,000 that the State supports for them in the state school, for those who attend the equals provides only 1,700 euros, in fact leaving the burden to the family or the school, with particularly heavy consequences for the less well-off families. In view of the fact that, for a solution appropriate to the need for more spaces where new classes will have to be trained in order to meet the needs of distance, peer schools have given willingness to use their unused spaces to accommodate more than one million pupils who will not be able to be received in public institutions, we urge those who must not ignore these proposals. With our motion we also commit the Government to predict the full deductibility of the cost of tuition paid by families to public schools in the months of suspension of teaching, up to 5,500 euros, which is the standard cost of sustainability per student, and to assess the opportunity to give the family a share equal to the standard cost of sustainability per pupil, thus allowing the free educational choice of families. The motion also intends to commit the Government to promote a consultation between the State and the Regions in order to find the full coverage of the teacher of support, following the example of what has been done by the Lombardy Region, which allocates 3,000 euros for every disabled student who attends the peer school. As far as the motions of the other political forces are concerned, I believe they confirm the convergence that has emerged in the House of Deputies, and we can only welcome this. In contrast, as usual, it is the 5 Star Movement, which in its document asks to extend to equal schools the rules relating to the publication of data and information, in particular as regards the internal organisation (office and organizational structure); the ownership of assignments of collaboration or advice (with details of the act of conferring the assignment, curriculum vitae and compensation paid); the annual account of the staff and the related expenses incurred (with particular reference to the data relating to the organic endowment and the staff actually in service and the relative cost); the rates of absence; the data relating to staff not indefinitely; the measures adopted (such as, for example, that of assigning teachers to classes); the data on supplementary collective bargaining; the documents annexed to the budget and the consuntive account; the real estate, in addition to the management of the heritage. In essence, the triggers ask the Government to require individuals who remain private, while providing a service of public utility, a whole series of obligations typical of the public bodies and bodies that see the massive participation of the State, the Regions or the local authorities in terms of both financing, and ordinary management, as happens for example in the municipalized ones. On the basis of the principle of freedom of education, on the other hand, equal schools may receive grants when the conditions are met, but they are autonomous in their organisation, provided that they comply with the educational systems of the national education and training system. [[Applause.]] (19.40 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u174	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the motion we have tabled, we intend to pursue two objectives. The first concerns the equalisation of advertising and transparency obligations between equal schools and state schools. As for the second, the Government is asked a commitment to verify that the fund of 300 million euros conferred with the so-called decree throwing again for the benefit of the peers, as compensation for the fees not collected, is actually going to fill this loss suffered. The public money used for refreshment measures is in debt and the institutions have the task of overseeing the success of this operation, which must be merely compensation, since the direct and indirect financing of private paritarian schools for the compulsory segments is constitutionally unacceptable, unlike other motions, such as that proposed at the first signature of Senator Bernini, which even calls for a contribution reduction of 100% of the fees paid for the families of students enrolled in pariahs. At the first point of our motion, the public and private paritarian schools are asked to comply strictly with the requirements regarding the advertising and transparency obligations applicable to state schools, since they are empowered to issue scores to teachers valid in public rankings and educational qualifications of legal value to students. Since, despite the seemingly strict rules and the requirements laid down in Law No 62 of 10 March 2000, which regulates school equality, the supervision of these bodies by the regional school offices, due to endemic shortage of inspection personnel, is so difficult as to be almost impossible, it is indispensable to extend the obligations of advertising and transparency provided for by Legislative Decree No 33 of 14 March 2013 for public administrations, including private and public paritarians, in order to allow anyone to verify, even remotely, the possession and maintenance of the requirements for school equality by these institutions, without prejudice of course to the obligations of verification by the administration, as from current legislation. Many of these schools - certainly peers, but also private peers for children and nests, for example - receive funding from local authorities on their share of state transfers. It is therefore essential for each of them to have a website in which, as in the case of the State school, organization chart, budget, decrees for the appointment of permanent and permanent staff, assignment of teachers to classes, teaching hours, three-year plan of the training offer, collegial bodies and their deliberations, school regulations, educational pact of co-responsibility, electronic register of attendances and activities. All this in order to protect families and students, guaranteeing them an effective equalization of the service and to protect teachers from undeclared work, even black, that Law No 62 of 2000 has failed to prevent. In fact, made the law, found the deception: the remuneration obligations conform to the national collective agreement come in some cases eluded with various expedients that there have been from several parts reported anonymously. We have become aware of episodes in which the remuneration paid to teachers by means of bank account is followed by a refund in cash of part or all the salary transferred. This condition is placed to the acceptance of the assignment to the teacher, penalty the dismissal, with consequent loss of the score. In addition to this, we have been told the practice of assigning teachers a surplus of work that also reaches up to 40% of the extra unpaid weekly hours, with jobs even out of contract. We are talking about teachers who are also involved in cleaning the working environments, to give an example. If this happens, it is because the State fails to exercise the supervision it should have on these bodies, and the teachers do not denounce the abuses, because the provision of the score stimulates the connivance between the employer and the subject, and because they know that, if they are fired, behind them, always for the score - in the mirage of making it stand for a place in the state schools - there is the line. Too much opacity on the private equal education system, some of which do the eulogy by ignoring or pretending to ignore what is often behind it. Fiat lux: there is a need to put in place a transparency regime that allows anyone, to all citizens, to verify the acts and possibly signal inconsistencies in the management of these schools. Only by extending the obligations of publicity and transparency to these institutions can it be achieved, in full respect of the principle of transparency which must be extended to all institutions forming part of the national education system. We at the Movimento 5 Stars decided not to put our heads in the sand; we are here, on behalf of the citizens, to invite all parliamentarians of majority and opposition to participate in this battle of civilization for the quality of the formation of thousands of girls and children and for the rights of thousands of workers in the world of school. We want to enhance the virtuous institutions and force those who are not to become virtuous institutions, while respecting the public service they perform, for the benefit of all students who cannot be placed in these schools just because families need a time-school more suited to their needs, but to fulfill their right-duty to education recognised by the Constitution. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the motion of which I am first signatory on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u175	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 232 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 256 (text 2), tabled by Senator Grenato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 259 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Pittoni and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 267. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 275 (text 2), tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This is the end of our first round of motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u178	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, two days ago Giulia Maria Crespi, a Lombard entrepreneur, died, but above all she was the founder and the first long-term president of the Italian Environment Fund (FAI). I believe that his commitment, his figure and his determination to ensure that even in our country, as in the Anglo-Saxon countries, private individuals could and could take on, through collections of specific funds, the enhancement, preservation, recovery and restoration of cultural and environmental assets have been an extraordinary success, of which it is necessary to give him credit and for which I believe our country must say thank you. If in Italy, in fact, we have been able to develop a greater sensitivity on the themes of cultural and environmental goods, it is also due to the work of FAI and President Crespi. I am thinking of the spring days of the FAI and the censuses of the places of the heart, initiatives that have mobilized thousands of people in the desire to better know our historical, artistic, cultural and environmental heritage and also in the desire to be able to recover and enhance some specific assets. I like to remember this distinguished figure who dedicated a large part of her long life because she died at ninety-seven years old. Maria Giulia Crespi died at this age not only in terms of culture and environment. I want to remind you, in fact, also as owner for many years of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera). She was not only an entrepreneur in the field of publishing, but also, inheriting the tradition of her family, an entrepreneur in the world of cotton. He then devoted time and energy to agriculture with an estate that did some school. I would like to remind you in this House of the great commitment and effort you have made in favour of culture and the environment. She is a figure that deserves to be remembered. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u181	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I take the floor to express, on behalf of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group, our deepest condolences to the family of UN collaborator Mario Paciolla. [[Applause]] , found dead on July 15th in his apartment in San Vicente del Caguán in Colombia. It will take a few days to learn about the first results of the autopsy, but I would like to thank Ambassador Gherardo Amaduzzi and our Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio who immediately took action to support the family at this difficult time and to shed light on the circumstances that led to the death of Mario. I have told the Minister that I will be asking a question to update Parliament on this case. After all, the hypothesis of suicide, initially advanced by the Colombian police, seems less and less reliable. In fact, there are too many inconsistencies that could suggest a new case of Regeni; in particular a plane ticket, booked for July 20, the day when our cooperative should have returned to Naples. To several friends Paciolla had then confided that he felt in danger; on the body, moreover, some cuts were found incompatible with the hypothesis of suicide. Mr President, I also hope that the UN mission in Colombia will cooperate closely with the authorities by providing all the information in its possession. Finally, there is a political context, that of the peace agreement between FARC and the Colombian Government, which has not led to the desired stability. Targeted murders of trade unionists, environmentalists and social and economic rights activists are taking place throughout Colombia. 348 social leaders have already been murdered under the Duque Government, 234 of which only in 2019: very high numbers on which the silence of the international community has fallen, particularly active in other contexts. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling that the work of Paciolla and many of her colleagues, who in many parts of the world are personally committed to peace and justice, is a valuable value for our country and its foreign policy. Sadly, many times these children risk their lives to pursue high ideals of justice. All our recognition goes to them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u184	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the House what has happened in these hours in Umbria, in Gualdo Cattaneo, which is the mirror of what is happening in Taranto, in Basilicata and in Veneto and which is the direct consequence of the policies of this Government, that already announcing the will to cancel the security decrees wanted by Matteo Salvini has seen multiplied by three landings in the first half: from 2,500 to 7,000. It happens then that people who arrive in Italy without permission - they call them migrants, but we like to call them by their name, that of illegals - are sent from the prefecture of Agrigento, which has the competence on Lampedusa, around Italy. It happens that the mayors are informed to the maximum for institutional correctness by the prefecture, with decisions that are taken above their head, and that twenty-five of these illegals have arrived, precisely, in Gualdo Cattaneo, from Tunisia. We do not know that there are wars in Tunisia. They arrived on Thursday afternoon; well, already on Saturday afternoon 23 out of 25 had disappeared undisturbed, since there had been no control from the managers. The scandal, from our point of view, lies in a system (if not organized, tolerated) which is unacceptable. One could write a book if a book had not already written it Mario Giordano titled "Profugopolis." Well, it is not acceptable that operators do not guarantee a physical, continuous and constant presence in the facilities. It is not acceptable that hours may pass before people are noticed that people have fled and that they have done so without having been subjected to the swab, but simply to the serological test, putting at risk not only safety but also health. That is why, as the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, we have tabled a motion - and not simply a question to know what did not work - which includes stricter rules and sanctions for the managers of the structures if there is a direct lack of control within them or a delay or a failure to report in case of removals from the structures. It is time for those who make mistakes to pay for their mistakes, especially when, as is happening in these hours, the health of Italian citizens is put at risk, even before safety. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u187	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House something that is incredible, if it is not true that it is happening in some of the towns here in the province of Rome, a few kilometres away. In Colonna, San Cesareo (especially in Campo Gillaro), Monte Compatri (especially in Laghetto) and Rocca Priora (especially in Faeta) thousands of citizens, if not tens of thousands (repeat, a few kilometers from Rome), are suffering a story that has some incredible: nauseous smells that have been felt for several months in this territory. Last Saturday, a demonstration was held in San Cesareo, organized by the Clean Air Committee, attended by many citizens who can no longer breathe. In particular in the early hours of the day, the last of the night, there are nauseating smells of which you can not understand the origin. The ARPA Lazio is carrying out its investigations, but unfortunately its control units are not calibrated for nauseous odours, but only for air pollution. Therefore, I am in this House asking, after I have done so with an act of inspection union, in particular the Ministry of the Environment and the undersecretary Morassut who is informed of it, to draw up national legislation on nauseating odours as soon as possible. I know that in the next related environmental measure there should be. They are here because the mayors of the municipalities of Colonna, San Cesareo, Monte Compatri and Rocca Priora wrote to the prosecutors of the Republic, so I expect the prosecutors of the Republic of Tivoli and Velletri, who were interested, to carry out their work soon. The group of Carabinieri of Frascati is investigating through the forest carabinieri and has been interested also the ecological operating core. They're sweeping all the systems. I believe that this is a situation that affects health and which is unlikely, so I hope that the Senate Assembly and the Ministers concerned will be able to carry out their task immediately. These citizens and their children can no longer live in this situation, so as soon as possible the judicial authority, the judicial police and the regulatory intervention must remedy this situation of incredible discomfort.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u190	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, last Sunday at Villa San Giovanni, near the beach, two 14-15-year-olds who swam in waters they did not know were dragged by the current, which is very strong in that area near the Strait of Messina, and were in serious difficulty. In particular, one of them was no longer able to swim because it was afflicted by cramps in an attempt, useless, to counter the current. Both were in immediate danger of life. A forty - year - old athletic, who was on the beach with his family, jumped to their rescue with the presence of spirit to carry a floating tool. He joined the two boys, managed to make them cling to the float and then, with great difficulty, to bring them back to shore saving their lives. That forty-year-old is Senator Marco Siclari, who did this act obviously without qualifying as a senator but qualifying his office with a very risky act, because two boys of fourteen to fifteen years - I say it as a master of salvation to swimming - if they hook up to the panic rescuer, they really put his life in danger. Instead, the story ended well: the boys were saved and Senator Siclari was able to come back and now be with us in the Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u191	Thank you, Senator Malan. If I read correctly, I think he used a mattress so he could hold the kids. I too congratulate you on the gesture.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u192	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-242.ana.u193	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 22 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.05 p.m.
