ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u4	The following draft law was presented on 28 October: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Justice: (a) Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 137 of 28 October 2020 on further urgent measures in the field of health protection, support for workers and businesses, justice and security related to the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u7	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, with the help of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, I asked to speak at the opening of the sitting in order to express our solidarity with the Senate Assembly and, more generally, with our Parliament, with France, the French Parliament, the city of Nice and, of course, with the victims of this new, very serious terrorist attack. A few minutes ago, some terrorists hit the city of Nice, assassinating and decapitating three citizens who were praying in the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. There is still no confidence in how many victims are actually killed, but there is certainty, as far as the mayor has also stated that it is a terrorist attack and that at least one of the attackers has been shot and arrested. This is the second recent episode that strikes France: fifteen days ago a professor was murdered and beheaded who had dared to teach freedom of expression in the French school. The school and church, the emblems of our civilization, were hit in the heart of France: fifteen days ago, on the outskirts of Paris, and this morning, in the center of Nice. I remind all of us that the latter is already a martyred city, because a few years ago, in 2016, another terrorist had hit her on the day of the French national holiday, July 14, killing 40 people and hurting 250. That is why I believe that today it is more important than ever to express our solidarity with the French National Assembly and the French people, in the knowledge that the repeated attack on France and on the symbols of our civilization - school and freedom of expression, church and freedom of religion - is an attack on all of us, Italians and Europeans, and therefore we must protect them to the full. It does not escape anyone that this happened a few days after a person, who I have difficulty in naming as president and also as lord, that is Erdoğan, had blown on fire, enticing Islamic fundamentalism, in fact, to defend himself, therefore to strike in the heart of Europe. This is unacceptable and we, as Parliament and as the Government, must draw the necessary consequences from it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u8	Senator Urso, thank you for your sensitivity to put this issue at the Senate Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u11	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we take the floor a few minutes after the attack in the Cathedral of Nice to express dismay and dismay, at such a dramatic time for the history of the planet, under attack by another great enemy - indeed, by the enemy - at this time, namely the pandemic. I would like to express, on behalf of my colleagues in the Mixed Group, our condolences to the families of the victims of this new terrorist attack. We want to be close to the French people and their institutions. The dynamics, at least according to the first news, suggest an attack of Islamist matrix, with a car bomb or a car that becomes a weapon, used in recent massacres (you will remember the truck or the car used on the bridge of London). Today there are the knife and the beheading, two weeks - as my colleague Mr Urso recalled - from that of the teacher Samuel Paty, beheaded in Paris for having spoken to the students of the cartoons of Charlie Hebdo. Also in Nice a woman would be beheaded and one of the attackers was wounded and stopped by the police. We are experiencing a dramatic moment for the pandemic, this invisible enemy who is reaping thousands and thousands of victims and causing suffering in the world. Today Nice and yesterday Paris also tell us about that other enemy: terrorism and violence, with its wars, asymmetrical or classic. That's why too many on this planet are blowing on fire. We must lower our tones: this is what we, in our country, must do. We need social and institutional cohesion, as well as democratic preservation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u14	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Lega Group, I offer my condolences and condolences to the people of France, to the French institutions and, in particular, to the French Christian community. In December of two years ago, in this House, from this place, I intervened to comment on another horror: the attack on the Christmas markets in Strasbourg, which took place in the same dynamic - that time a stolen gun was used - and always with the same aim, that is to hit the identity roots of the French people, in their Christian declination. If we consider ourselves secularized and that religion and Christian identity are not such, but only a spiritual afflate proper to the "internal forum" of each individual, as a jurist would say, the same does not apply to others, who consider the spiritual dimension absolutely current and immanent to political reality. Indeed, to affirm religious values (which we do not share, in purposes and means) for someone is a political objective, of Realpolitik, which is perpetrated and pursued by means that repugnant to us, but that for others are even sanctifying. Mr President, acts of violence against the unbelievers lead to paradise. Yet someone speaks of this terrorism as the result of the action of a madman or the action of an asymmetrical war. Certainly it is an asymmetrical war, but not a classic one, as we mean it, and it does not have, as the Marxists say, an economic root, because nobody commits suicide in order to achieve an economic objective; it has in the spiritual dimension a concrete objective, so the problem is the defense of our roots: we must be aware of it. [[Applause]] This is the reflection that needs to be made and therefore I appeal to the Government to bear in mind that, if for someone here in the West, politics is economic, in the rest of the planet, for someone, it is to achieve an ideological, ideal and spiritual goal. So we must take into account why our enemy is fighting. These are our enemies and they have a religious plaque: you must not be afraid to say that the terrorist is Islamic, he is Muslim. [[Applause]] They have created the Islamist ideology, which exists only for us, but not for them; they are praised by their people and are considered heroes and, among other things, there are no imams condemning them, because they cannot do so, as they carry out what the Koran and the hadiths of the prophet Muhammad. I therefore appeal to the Government to consider the security of our country. Well our intelligence services work: I recommend, we continue to support the action of our security services, bearing in mind the objective of our enemy, which is not that of a classic power policy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u17	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I express my solidarity with the families of the victims of this morning's attack, with the city of Nice, with the National Assembly and with the French people. The dynamics of the assault and the testimonies leave little doubt on the matrix and the political-cultural extraction of these murderers, which, however, beyond the single episode, call us, as European citizens and Italians, to an awareness of the exceptional situation that we are experiencing, which challenges us all, as citizens and parliamentarians, to the maximum of political cohesion. In fact, where there is division in a situation of such an emergency, it is natural, unfortunately, that malicious or even organized political groups take steps to break the united spirit that a people must have at this time and to sow fear and terror. Hence the appeal which, once again, I address on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars to all political forces. Faced with the difficulties of the citizens and the exasperation, the appeal is to the maximum of political unity, beyond the differences, and to a loyal republican collaboration, which is the only one that at this moment allows us to make all the necessary efforts to meet and respond to the needs of the citizens. At the same time, we must send a message to those who want to sow terror and fear and destabilize: democracy in Italy is a precious asset that we are all prepared to defend by all the necessary means, starting with the political forces in this House, loyally and together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u20	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, on behalf of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I., I express deep solidarity and closeness to President Macron, to the French National Assembly and to all the French citizens who have been affected at this time by a tragic event. It is clear that the investigations are under way and it will be necessary to verify - even if it is probable - that the root is of a terrorist nature, even in the light of the tragic attack that took place only a couple of weeks ago at the expense of a teacher who had the wisdom, courage and good sense to teach his students the values of tolerance and respect for mutual opinions and differences, even of a religious nature. This tragic act hurts a city that, just a couple of years ago, had experienced the dramatic effects of other terrorist attacks. I am referring, in particular, to the killing, with a truck, of many citizens, including some of our fellow citizens who live there. For these reasons, our solidarity and closeness go to the French people and, above all, to President Macron, who only a few days ago was the victim of harsh and unacceptable attacks on the part of Turkish President Erdogan, who, even with regard to the revival that we are experiencing today, is likely to stir up violence and hatred. This moves us even more strongly, as a national Parliament, to express our closeness to the French people, to recall the values of tolerance and respect for rights and to say that acts of this kind (and also attacks like those heard in recent days) are totally unacceptable. We are at the side of the French people and believe in the values of mutual respect and tolerance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u23	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would like to join in the speeches made by my fellow Members on what happened just a few minutes ago in the city of Nice, in one of the landmarks of that city, France, our Europe, the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. This is an unspeakable horror, Mr President, but we have a duty to say and denounce in this House. The murder, the beheading of two people is a blow to France and Europe at one of the most dramatic moments in their recent history, at the moment when we are dealing and struggling with the effects of the terrible pandemic that undermine and put to the test the social and economic hold of our countries. In this context, this morning's attack aims to create fear, disorientation and irrationality. Policy must respond to all this with the utmost firmness. I express solidarity, on behalf of the Democratic Party, with the French Republic, the French people and the city of Nice, already hit by a terrible terrorist attack on the evening of July 14, 2016, during the people's celebrations to celebrate the French Republic. This morning's attack is an attempt first of all to undermine the rule of law. This is reflected in strengthening the rule of law and demonstrating that it is stronger than the terrorist attempt. As we know, Mr President, it is a particularly serious attack because it is the culmination of a sequence that has struck Europe in recent years, particularly France, and that has seen only a few days ago, in the murder of Samuel Paty, in his terrible beheading in front of the school where he taught, an unheard of gravity. That murder also wanted to strike the symbol of the rule of law, teaching and education to secularism and freedom. So, Mr President, I think that the firmness that we must take in the face of all this must be expressed not only in the indignation of this House this morning, but in a very strong response. I therefore ask, through you, that this House be able to dedicate to the figure of Samuel Paty, so symbolic, a special working session to reaffirm the importance of the values of freedom and secularism against any clash of civilizations that betrays all religions, and between them that of Islam. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u26	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies expresses solidarity with the family and the French people for the dramatic and horrible attack this morning. I would very briefly like to recall Muhammad Ali's phrase, which is the name Cassius Clay took after converting to Islam: Islam is not hate. God is not with the killers. It is a perfect and sublime synthesis. No to fanaticism, no to those who cultivate it, no to those who use it as an instrument of political struggle. The responsibility of politics is to succeed in being other than the hatred and violence that ensues. We must be able to demonstrate this and live up to this challenge, even here, we, today. That and that alone is the responsibility of politics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u29	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, also expresses its solidarity with the French people, with their institutions, with the city of Nice, in particular, which was hit many years ago, and with France, which has been affected several times by this type of terrorism. On the nature of this terrorism I believe that there can be no doubt, given the manner in which the killer acted, which, from what we know, was isolated (but we still do not know for sure). From what he shouted during and after committing his murders, as has been testified several times, invoking his god, the matrix is evident: it is not generic terrorism, but Islamic terrorism. [[Applause]] Faced with this we must have an attitude, yes, secular, as has been said, but this means being faithful to the values of our Constitution, freedom, democracy and equality among all citizens, men and women, and applying them, through the laws in force, to all those who are in Italy, without apologizing for the incitement to hatred, indeed understanding that it constitutes an aggression, when it is done on religious bases. It is evident that this gives him greater weight. It is therefore necessary to watch over places of worship and education, because this world is present not only in France or in other countries, but also in us. The contrast to radicalization and the use of religion for the incitement to hatred, with the direct effects that we see, must be carried out in all circumstances, even with regard to those countries where children are raised to hatred towards each other and the other religion, perhaps with books financed in part by the European Union, sometimes even by the Italian Republic. [[Applause]] We need coherence and, yes, solidarity, but remembering that we cannot limit ourselves to it and to general exacration. You have to go into the concrete and hit those who incite hatred and spread this kind of ideology. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u30	The unanimous condemnation and condolences expressed here today by all the groups allow me, on behalf of the Presidency and the whole Senate, to invite the senators to a minute's recollection as a sign of solidarity for those who have lost their lives and closeness to France. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u31	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law No 1721 and documents LXXXVI, No 3, and LXXXVII, No 3. I recall that during yesterday's sitting the examination of the articles of bill No. 1721 was completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u34	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, today we are called to vote on the European delegation law 2019-2020, presented in the Senate last February and accompanied by a careful examination of its nearly 30 articles; an examination on particularly significant matters, which seemed to us to have been overcome by the work to which we were forced by the emergency health, which has upset and continues to distort social, economic and political life all over the world. It is not easy at the same time, on the national and European table, for the adoption of effective instruments to counter the effects of the pandemic in terms of health protection, but also of economic contraction and increase in public debt, inequalities and territorial disparities. However, the law of a European delegation is a fundamental instrument for the process of harmonization and approximation of the laws of the individual Member States, which therefore helps to achieve an ever closer Union for a project that we believe is not only possible but due to the horizon of a common destiny. The health crisis has shown how important it is to be part of a Union capable of developing its own support instruments, from the state supported short-time work (Sure), to the intervention of the EIB and the ECB. In this context, the European delegation law 2019-2020, which allows us to adapt to as many as 33 European directives and 14 regulations, will qualify our participation in that process of European integration. We also play our credibility on this issue, which must certainly be put in the field of dealing with the health emergency, but also in defining the strategy for recovery and resilience and for the use of the 208 billion of the Next Generation EU, resources that are laboriously negotiated, but which risk - alas - being questioned by those sovereign countries that are struggling to share not only the pro-European drives, but also the cultural and democratic heritage of defending fundamental rights and common freedoms, from Hungary to Poland. There is therefore a need for parallel work between the implementation of European standards and the implementation of the structural reforms outlined in the European Semester, which should help to overcome the crisis, but also the many distortions that have hindered stable growth and the quality of development for years, thus reforming justice and the public administration system, but also labour and education. This is therefore a complementary and coherent commitment between the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the European delegation law for standards that are precisely on the same strategic priorities, namely environmental transition to a sustainable green economy, with reference to the 7th Framework Programme for the Environment and the green new deal, and digital transition, to which many articles of the delegation law are related. In this context, of particular importance are the articles on the protection of copyright and the digital market, in order to link the development of technologies and the protection of creativity and its value, even pending a European discipline that manages to establish the right tax levy on those operators, operating in a market that is difficult to regulate, but that is necessary to regulate. Particular attention has been paid by my Group to Article 3 for the implementation of the 2018 Directive, which paves the way for a fairer regulatory environment for the audiovisual sector, for greater protection of minors, for the fight against incitement to hatred, as well as for measures against those who use fictitious profiles in order to alter the exchange of views, generate alarms and benefit from the dissemination of false news. It is an extremely topical protection, which we believe is necessary not only for individuals, but for the very construction of the democratic process. Many articles (5, 12, 19) on the internal market for energy from renewable sources, according to the criterion of technological neutrality, as well as according to the principle of reuse and recycling, towards a fully circular economy; renewable and non-polluting sources for both self-consumption and community, with particular attention to public transport and, in the future, also air transport in relation to biofuels, in the awareness that the protection of human health has to deal with the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change. Article 7 lays down principles for unfair commercial practices in relations between businesses in the agricultural and food supply chain, and introduces elements of greater transparency for the benefit of the same end-user chain. If making national economies more cohesive and convergent makes the European economy more competitive, then, Mr Undersecretary, it is urgent to call on the European tables to reform the rules on state aid and competition, which now appear completely distonic compared to the evolution of international trade relations that require greater attention to be paid to European domestic productions, now that we have understood, also because of the pandemic, how much our economy must count on the European single market. To conclude, there are still a number of infringement procedures to which to respond, as many as 83, with the wish to accompany the work of implementing European regulations with a greater commitment in the ascending phase, rethinking also a closer collaboration with the Regions for the matters within their competence. A job, that of our country's participation in the construction of Europe, important, that must see us protagonists in the interest of Italians and in the interest of a Europe that is perceived increasingly useful and close to the needs of citizens. We have said this, and that is why a Europeanist government was needed; and today is the time to speed up with courage. Now the challenge is at home, to build and plan today the future that we will leave to our children, starting with the adoption of effective measures to combat the pandemic and protect the health of citizens. That is why we are going to go back to saying that the use of ESM resources can no longer be postponed, now that the health system is likely to collapse in the face of the spread of infection. The challenge is to overcome the crisis and ensure sustainable and structural recovery and growth, but also financial sustainability of the measures taken in the path towards the green and digital transition. The delegation law also contributes to this transformation and change. That is why we are doing our part today, declaring the Italian Viva-P.S.I Group's vote in favour. the European delegation law 2019-2020. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u37	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, again this year we have the ritual of European law; in essence, we do our homework. Europe tells us what we have to do and we do it. But we are doing it so uncritically now that we risk really falling into ridicule. The programme report we are going to vote on was written in January 2020, before the pandemic. The European delegation law began its journey years ago, months ago, before the pandemic, and we pretend that all this did not happen; we do homework, pretending that the world is the same as before. If you think you are such a good Europeanist, you are wrong; you look like fools, because one must be even minimally rational when he does things. In his motion for a resolution, Brothers of Italy calls for the documents to be withdrawn and for them to be brought back to the new context, because we do not make a good figure in Europe and we do not make a good figure in Italy. We must follow up 33 directives, 14 regulations, 33 infringement procedures, but, Mr Undersecretary, how many of these will be valid in subsequent years? It escapes you that Europe has decided new rules, new systems, new aid to enterprises. We pretend nothing and move on like nothing's happened. Many things have changed in the economic sphere: the new European instruments, the new role of the ECB and state aid. Would it not have been more useful to be clear with our businesses? Colleagues have escaped the article of "Il Sole 24 Ore" entitled "Risk refund for aid to enterprises". You spoke of aid to businesses. Does the government listen to me or do I speak alone? It's okay that this is a fake procedure; we're saying it, but at least you who believe it pretend to believe it. ( [[Applause).]] Undersecretary on the return to business, Minister Amendola tells us that the word enterprise in Europe means group. Too bad this was made public yesterday. It is true that on the European Union website, where an entrepreneur could check out, the limit of EUR 800,000 per company is indicated. The Chamber and Senate dossier of October 27 speaks of 800,000 euros per company. If it's not 800,000 euros per company, because it's per group for European rules, you had to be clearer and write "group" and, when you went on television, you didn't have to say that there's 800,000 euros per company, but 800,000 euros of maximum state aid per group. Today, in fact, we are talking about Italy's participation in the European Union, which cannot be a systematic mockery. Instead of pretending nothing, today was an opportunity to specify, given that our companies are on their knees and that we are talking about business aid, that the word 'enterprise' actually corresponds to the enterprise and not the group. We could do it today; we didn't do it because we had to do the useful idiots. Also in the economic sphere, Macron - which does not seem to me a sovereignist - is talking about self-sufficiency and livelihood. Banally he says: the epidemic has explained to us that a total globalization in which Europe is not self-sufficient at least for survival is a problem. Macron question: are we gonna put the problem? A PD executive, Maurizio Martina, recently wrote the book "Sovereign Food" on the concept that can be summarized as follows: boys, let's be careful; don't we even have survival food tomorrow? Was it not appropriate to talk about this in the European delegation law? No, we are talking about the 14 regulations we are interested in and the 33 directives because we are on our knees in Europe, and we do not understand the role of Italy's participation in Europe. In health care, you know we're heading for lockdown now. France and Germany are heading for lockdown, but did we question a banal voice? I am referring to the application of Schengen during the pandemic period. What are the rules of engagement? Can everyone close to each other, just as it happened to Italy when you had France, Slovenia and Austria close your borders in the face because we were the plagued ones in Europe? How does it work now? What are the rules? This was the place to talk about it and do not talk about it because your document is in January 2020. We are always talking about the rule of law - as Mrs Ginetti mentioned just now - because the bad Hungarians and Poles want to defend their Christian and European roots. As far as the rule of law is concerned, you never spend a single word on the issue of combating Islamic fundamentalism in Europe. It is a theme that Brothers of Italy tackles systematically. At European level, it systematically places it among the priorities: we have done so in recent years and also this year, but this year we imagined that you would spend at least one word. I do not know if you have missed that the Muslim countries around the world are attacking the secularity of France, that is, Europe. In the meantime, there are episodes like today's, where Islamic terrorists enter a cathedral by slitting and killing people. A few days ago Professor Samuel Paty was beheaded, guilty of explaining secularism at school. He was beheaded by a so-called Chechen refugee, rejected by Christian Poland, who ended up in France killing French professors. Today we have reached the height of shame. I invite everyone to listen again to the speeches of pain expressed by the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, of Italy Viva and of the Democratic Party regarding the events of this morning; none of the three have ever quoted the words "Islamista", "Islam", "Muslims" or "Islamic terrorism." [[Applause]] These three people today were killed by accident or died of cold. And the shameful thing is that on the decapitation of Professor Samuel Paty there is not a single declaration of the members of the government, nor a declaration of the Democratic Party and not even a statement of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]] [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli and Senator La Pietra.]] None of you have so far expressed solidarity with France and condemned the Islamist murder of Professor Paty, because you believe that any form of invasion of Europe must be supported and that talking about Islamic fundamentalism is a taboo. [[Vivaci commentati]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u38	I'd be praying to keep everyone in their role. Please continue Senator Fazzolari. The disturbance is not felt.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u39	[[Vivaci commentati]] FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to recover a few minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, don't worry, it's all calculated. Go on. Senator Mirabelli won't be able to take her seconds. FAZZOLARI (FdI). I simply wanted to say that it is symptomatic of the question that from the PD benches comes the fascist scream, because I am saying that it is a shame not to condemn the Islamist beheading of Professor Samuel Paty, who does not seem to be a right-wing exponent. So, if the PD believes that condemning Professor Paty's beheading is an act of right-wing extremists, we're really bad. Announcement that, unlike the members of the PD, called me the mayor of L'Aquila, friend Pierluigi Biondi, who announced that the City of L'Aquila will dedicate a way to Professor Samuel Paty to remember exactly what are the battles that we must carry out in Europe. [[Applause]] In conclusion, the Democratic Party believes - and unfortunately now the Movimento 5 Stars with it - that the role of Italy in Europe is to support the appetites of others: no defense of our strategic assets, our plundered enterprises and this weakness even comes to attack our national borders. Thanks to the Brothers of Italy, we denounced the attempt to surrender part of our territorial waters with the agreement of Caen, which at the moment has jumped; thanks to the Brothers of Italy and the question submitted by Senator La Russa to the Senate and by Mr Lollobrigida to the House, we denounced the French attempt to take possession of the summit of Mont Blanc and we hope that with the denunciation of Brothers of Italy will be averted [[Applause.]] As the President of the Party of European Conservatives recently said, on behalf of the 40 western European parties it represents, the Italian Giorgia Meloni, we do not necessarily have to kneel before the Eurosystem, in Europe we can also stand, with our heads high, to defend our national interests and our people. That is what we are going to do, and that is why we are going to vote against this government's bad European delegation law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u41	What do you want to intervene on? MIRABELLI (PD). On the order of business, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On what subject? MIRABELLI (PD). I heard an intervention that... president. No, you can't comment. MIRABELLI (PD). No, I'm not commenting, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You weren't personally called into question. MIRABELLI (PD). But my group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u42	I would like to continue with the explanations of vote. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Sit down, stay calm, I'll say the word when it's right. If you explain to me later why you want to intervene, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u45	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the Senators of the Misto-Leu Group will vote in favour of the draft European delegation bill 2019. Someone called it the tired rite of every year, but I think it is instead an absolutely fundamental act for our country and especially this year, because more and more the element of integration, even in the legislative aspect, of the regulations, is crucial for the future of Europe. I know that many times we have been in difficult situations, on some directives, on issues that may concern national interests, but today we are in a very different context from that of a few years ago and I believe that the process of contemplating different national interests is going in a good direction. On the other hand, concerns arise - I say this explicitly - not so much from a problem of opposition of national interests, but - I also address the rapporteur, Mr Pittella, who is well aware of these dynamics - from the fact that we are faced, with regard to some very important acts of the European Union and the Commission, with lobbying pressures that often do not correspond to the interests of our country. I am thinking, for example, of the whole debate on the CAP: even then we are often faced with very strong pressures and also with interests that sometimes endanger the interests of our country and our agriculture. I think this is a process that certainly needs to be countered, but it is also a process that is going somehow differently. The delegation law, among other things, is very important because we, unfortunately, are a country that has always had a history of infringement procedures. This is an instrument that allows us, again this year, to put our hands together quietly and to reduce the number of these infringement procedures. The other, of course, important issue (although things are going quite differently in recent times,) is that of being able to transpose the directives themselves at a fairly reasonable time. The work of our country and ours as legislators, is also to try, in some way, through the transposition to improve the regulatory profiles of the directives themselves, precisely in terms of the impact on Italian regulations. There are many very important issues in this delegation bill, including employment issues. Let us think of Article 20 and the specific principles and guiding criteria for the delegation of power to adapt to the pension product regulation, to that for social entrepreneurship funds, to the definition of minimum rights for workers and also to those relating to the balance between work and family life. Just as, in the field of education and culture, among the directives that the Government is delegated to transpose, there are some very important ones. I am thinking, for example, of Directive 2018/108 on the coordination of all legislative provisions regarding the provision of audiovisual media services and the intervention on copyright. So, as you can see, it is the whole front, very important, that Europe has as its goal. With this law of European delegation, for example, we are talking about renewable energy, knowing perfectly well that we have discussed many times in this House, always in view of the European Councils, how important it is today, also in relation to the Next Generation EU programme, the whole path towards the energy transition and the new objectives that Europe has set itself for reducing emissions, also with a view to achieving climate neutrality in 2050. There are many elements that I find not only important, but that also enable us to make further progress. The work of the Commission and the work of the House, then, introduced further changes, which were absolutely positive. In this regard, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Pittella, and Secretary-General Agea, who also allowed us to further improve our work both in the Commission and in this House. I am thinking, for example, of certain amendments which, on the renewables front, have been adopted, at the first signature of my colleague Mr Girotto, and which are very important to us. We consider them to be fundamental, with regard to the issue of energy communities, self-dispatching and self-consumption. In short, a number of measures that I consider to be crucial. Not to mention the fact that we have achieved an objective that I think is quite important, even compared to the debate in this House on the amendment on palm oil. Having decided to exclude palm oil from renewable sources in our country since 1 January 2023 (by anticipating, therefore, a year the directive that provides for the gradual exclusion between 2024 and 2030) is a very important result. [[Applause]] I remember that France - since we were talking about this country - has decided, for example, to eliminate the incentives already from 2020; the ENI, our national player, has decided that it will move already from 2023, so I believe that the Assembly, voting on this amendment, has done an important job for our country, and more generally for the Planet. You know better than I, in fact, the close connection between palm oil and the devastating mechanisms of deforestation in the world, especially in the Amazon. There is another element that we welcomed. Just as we are all concerned because in the second wave of the pandemic, we have intervened with a rule which may seem secondary, but which I consider very important, linked to zoonoses, namely the ban on the import of all exotic animals. We know perfectly well how this is linked to the health rules. These results - I repeat - have added positive elements to this law of European delegation. At the same time, the directives that we delegate to the Government to transpose are another step forward - absolutely crucial for us - in the integration of legislation at European level. This is always with the eagerness to look, of course, at the interests of our country, but knowing perfectly that, on many of these norms, they are closely linked to the fact that in Europe it is really a system of legislative integration, which is crucial for our economic and political system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u46	The representative of the Democratic Party is enlisted to speak...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u48	Senator Mirabelli, if you consider taking the floor now in an explanation of vote in place of my colleague Stefano, who has announced that he will intervene, you can do very well. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Look, I also consulted with the Offices; let me say, politely, that there is no possibility, nor can there be, to respond to an intervention in explanation of vote... [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] This is how you started your speech; what do you want to do? Tell me. Tell me what the reason for your intervention is.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u49	To deny the fact that the PD Group has been called a Fascist to someone...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u50	And that can do it at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u51	MIRABELLI (PD). And to deny that we have not expressed any condolences for the death of Professor Samuel Paty.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u52	Senator Mirabelli, I tell you with sincerity: it is not a ritual for you to speak after an explanation of vote, also because now the representative of your Group will speak, who will have the opportunity to say what he thinks, exactly as the representative of Brothers of Italy did. However, we have taken note of your statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u55	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote and not for any other reason. Colleagues and colleagues, today we are approving the European delegation law for the years 2019 and 2020. It has been an important work, which has engaged the Commission for many weeks, with the examination of texts, hearings and amendments. This is an important and complex work which has seen the contribution of all the parliamentary groups, by majority and opposition, which I thank together with my predecessor, Senator Licheri, the Minister, the Undersecretary Agea, the whole structure of the Commission and the rapporteurs here at my side. The bill can then pass to the Chamber, certainly enriched and improved, for its definitive approval. With the delegation law we also approve the two reports on Italy's participation in the European Union for the years 2019 and 2020. I would therefore like to point out a few points, because I believe that it is appropriate to do so before the vote. The first concerns the relationship with Europe. Our country has had a conflicting relationship with Europe in recent years, especially for some critical positions towards eurozone policies. Not all the critical positions have highlighted merit, but some of the issues we have also raised, because they are well-founded. The construction of Europe still needs modernisation in its institutions, in its governance and in its operating rules. We are well aware of that. But it is also true that the greatest progress has been made in the course of the crisis periods and we have the proof of this also in this tormented 2020, in which the pandemic from Covid has provoked a serious economic shock, but at the same time has accelerated expected changes for some time. Let me give you a few examples. There was talk of too strict budgetary rules, and the Stability and Growth Pact has been suspended; temporarily, but it has been suspended. There had been talk of State aid and rules that were too strict, and these were suspended; these too were temporarily, but they were suspended. There was talk of the ECB as being too careful about inflation, and we have had the continuation of the purchases of securities by the Member States. There was talk of the need to equip the European Union with Eurobonds, and we had the SURE mechanism and the recovery fund. I can think of these four aspects in order to be able to say that enormous steps are being taken in the construction of the common European home. These are points that make us say that there has been and has been a very strong European response. Europe is not the enemy that some almost obsessively point out, but it is our great opportunity, our prospect of growth, our common home. Of course, these aspects will have to be stabilised even after the pandemic, when it is over, and this is the horizon on which we must work and commit ourselves. In fact, it is not conceivable that the advances that have been made and have allowed to adopt policies that are finally expansive are only temporary. There will have to be time and opportunity for reflection on the final changes to some of the European Union's paradigms. On the other hand, even if the German Federal Government has planned to increase its public debt by EUR 96 billion in 2021 to finance social expenditure and stimulate economic recovery, we can say that something has really changed; and it has changed for the better, also thanks to our action. I'm staying today. In these days we have discussed very much and also in depth the recovery fund, also here in this House. This is the true European response to the pandemic and it was created in a spirit of common solidarity, which perhaps we would have had difficulty imagining in normal times, even recently. Together with the SURE mechanism, the recovery fund will be financed through the issuance of bonds by the European Commission: a breakthrough. We have asked for eurobonds for a long time and now we have European bonds issued by the Commission; they are getting very close and we must be satisfied with this. It was an all-Italian request and we got there, by crossroads, with a different name, but somehow we got there. It is a good result, and I believe that the whole of Parliament should rejoice. The second issue is the relationship with the Member States: the pandemic has allowed everyone to understand that our countries are truly interdependent. Therefore, we must not hesitate in any way to reconnect the threads of an ever closer dialogue with our European partners, in order to be able to have a greater impact on the construction of the rules, changing paradigm. We can no longer say that Europe is asking for directives and regulations, because Europe is us, and we must not forget that. We also take part in the negotiations and the institutions that lay down the rules and that is where our point of view must be set, without ending up in the almost ritual lamentation that the European rules are being written in Brussels, without doing anything to try to influence their definition. In order to do this, however, we must read the dossiers, establish alliances with the other Member States, reason in terms of European political families, dialogue with our colleagues in the European Parliament. It certainly costs effort and does not bring much support to social media, but we protect our national interest from this modus operandi, i.e. working in the construction phase of the European standard, to insert a larger piece of our national interest, just as the other Member States do, also because we can no longer say that the acts come from Brussels without us realizing it: just think of the directives contained today in the draft delegation and that we are going to vote. Each of them has been drawn up by the European legislator, it is true, but our Senate, the Chamber of Deputies and every other national parliament have the opportunity to examine them at three different times: when proposals for directives are presented in Brussels, when we examine the European delegation bill and when we express ourselves on the acts of the government implementing the delegation. These are three distinct moments, which require us to enter into the substance of the individual issues. From this point of view we are absolutely capable of affecting the content of the European standard and adapting it to our national specificities, but we must work on it, go to those tables and motivate our reasons in the negotiations. In this sense, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the law of a European delegation, today in our examination, contains many important reforms. There is delegation for the reform of the radio and television system, which was named after Mr Gasparri; there is delegation for the reform of the electronic communications system, with the ongoing debate on the single national network, where the principle of widespread access to very high-speed communications networks and their dissemination, for all citizens, at affordable prices is fixed; there is delegation for the reform of the system for promoting the use of renewable energy, which is part of the green transition process, which is being carried out by the European Union, and there is delegation for the reform of unfair commercial practices in business relations in the agricultural and food chain, which is our pride in international trade and which we have a duty to protect vigorously. These are only the first four articles of the European delegation law, but they make clear the crucial importance of this regulatory instrument. Even when we look at the directives contained in the annex, we see the decisive issues that are contained within them. I draw on the justice directives: we should transpose the directive on combating money laundering, criminal law, fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment, and the directive on the insolvency of businesses. Then there are the employment directives, such as the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union and the directive on the balance between work and family life. In conclusion, I would like to mention the adoption of the amendment introducing the ban on disposable plastic products, which have a dramatic impact on the environment, with which we begin to respond fully to the missions we have given ourselves with the recovery fund. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Stefano. STEFANO (PD). At the same time, supporting the production of the same objects with biodegradable and compostable plastic and with increasing percentages of renewable raw material has in fact a double important advantage: on the one hand we facilitate the green transition, on the other we support our companies that in this sector are at the forefront, because it is possible to maintain and create employment without giving up the environment and its care. In short, Mr President, the European delegation law allows our country to adopt a series of important reforms every year, following the European social model that we have long been inspired by. That is why the Democratic Party, on whose behalf I express my explanation of vote, will vote in favour of the draft law of the European delegation and the two reports under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u58	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Senators, the work behind the forthcoming approval of the bill of European delegation in our examination has been thorough and detailed and I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Pittella, and Undersecretary Agea, who have done a good job of mediation between the demands of the various political forces. Their approach was constructive and was not at all obvious; on the contrary, I must say that I was surprised because in recent months we have regularly clashed with an attitude of total closure by the Government and the majority towards our proposals, which would have allowed us to manage in a sure more timely and rational way the current health and economic emergency. In fact, after having given our green light to budgetary deviations for a total amount of 100 billion euros, we have been regularly excluded from each table of comparison and the results are under everyone's eyes: delays over accumulated delays in managing a very predictable second wave of contagions; insufficient measures to support companies, VAT consignments and employees; loans that are difficult even to request; wasted resources for the purchase of fantastic wheelchairs and electric scooters, responsible - in my opinion - of a disaster to the detriment of our cities in terms of both decorum and safety; public transport as full as eggs. This obviously did not give a response to the crisis and the social tension that is unfortunately rising. We hope, therefore, that the positive path experienced in the Commission will not remain an isolated case, because it is unacceptable for the Government to expect to manage the many, too many, dossiers on the table in total autonomy. The collaboration must be practiced - I say it to the majority - and not theorized, because you theorize the collaboration, but then in practice there has been no collaboration in these months. In view of the overall challenge of the Next generation EU, we demand from the Government a real involvement at the tables that will decide the economic destiny of our country and the future of our children. Because of the current situation, it should no longer be a taboo to cooperate and work together. Be clear, we do not offer and have never offered support to the Government; we offer only and exclusively the responsibility and meaning of the institutions that today more than ever serve the country. The draft law of the European delegation in question contains the delegation for the transposition of the plastic directive, which provides for a series of provisions aimed at reducing its consumption and strikes a fair balance between the protection of the environment and the safeguarding of our productive realities. The Directive sets out the way for incentives to support the conversion of industrial production: incentives and not new taxes. Clearly, taxes should not be increased or transferred, as Commissioner Gentiloni would like to do with the three card game: from work to things, from work to home. The first house is a precious asset and must not be touched. Taxes must be reduced; this is the only way to revive the economy and help the Italians exhausted by this emergency that seems never to end and that is leading them to despair. The text also contains the delegation for the transposition of the Copyright Directive. This is an important directive which the members of Forza Italia have also worked very hard in the European Parliament; the network and social media are a formidable tool for growth, but the web giants cannot continue to plunder the creators' creations. [[Applause.]] I therefore felt it necessary to stress the question of fair compensation for journalists, writers, musicians and artists, presenting an agenda that was accepted by the Government, which committed itself to defining an appropriate remuneration for them. We therefore hope that the commitment made by the Government will be followed up quickly by accepting my agenda. Thanks to the adoption of some of my amendments, we have also reduced administrative sanctions for micro-enterprises, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, and improved the delegation for the implementation of the animal welfare regulation, introducing incentives for those who develop good intensive farming practices. As I said yesterday, we do not like the fact that the governance of medical devices will be funded by those who will have to control... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u59	I would ask colleagues to pay more attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u60	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). We do not like the fact that the governance of medical devices will be financed by those who will have to control them, i.e. by the companies awarded invitations to tender for medical devices themselves. I will continue and continue to work for this obvious conflict of interest to be eliminated. With the law of European delegation we also vote today on the government's reports on our country's participation in the European Union. On this side, colleagues in the majority and in the government, there is still much to be done. The government must continue to work in Europe for fair tax harmonisation, safeguarding our companies from the unbearable phenomenon of tax dumping; The Netherlands, Luxembourg and Ireland lose 8 billion euros a year to Italy. As the president of the Antitrust denounces, every year more than 23 billion dollars of profits escape from the taxation of our country, which end up in jurisdictions more favorable to the multinationals. [[Brusio.]] I also ask my colleagues from Forza Italia to have a minimum of delicacy with regard to the fact that I am intervening. [[Applause.]] Mr President, more than 23 billion dollars of profit escapes from our country every year. We can therefore no longer accept that there are states in the Union that behave like real tax havens, implementing practices that damage the economy of other countries, including, of course, our own. Forza Italia has long said that we need greater protection of our Made in Italy, even more in this moment of economic crisis. [[Applause.]] We must defend Made in Italy in every way and on every occasion. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, visiting Italy, also reminded us that we are a liberal democracy based on respect for duties and recognition of rights. In this context, I therefore feel it is also necessary to stress the need for a genuine reset of relations with China: an uncomfortable subject, to be put on the table, however. In light of what is happening in the world because of the responsibility of the People's Republic of China, we still cannot ignore it. [[Applause.]] The relationship between Italy and the European Union and Beijing must not lose sight of our principles of reference. We must demand from China respect for human rights, respect for the rules to protect workers, also as a guarantee of fair economic competition, respect for privacy to protect our security, respect for sanitary standards to safeguard a globalized and interconnected community, in which the flaws of one country inevitably affect everyone else. The fact that China is a world economic power cannot and must no longer be an alibi to justify the fact that it is granted everything. We need a decisive and courageous change of pace on the part of our country and the whole international community. We are very concerned about the pro-Chinese drift of the Government, as we have said several times, and I repeat this in this House. We have in fact yielded - indeed, sold out, as my colleagues rightly correct me - to a Chinese group a substantial part of the port of Taranto. We cannot continue to bend to predatory investments by Beijing. You have a huge responsibility to the future of this country. Beijing, if it wants to remain in the global market, must first accept the rules. You need the courage you don't have. We call on you to make a change of pace and to promote, at Community level, initiatives aimed at obtaining precise commitments from the People's Republic of China, to guarantee the economy and health of all of us. Italy, moreover, must further work to ensure that our partners understand that the Italian coasts correspond to the European borders. We have been presented by the European Commission with a proposal for a reform of the Dublin Regulation, but I do not think that any substantial progress has been made. We therefore expect the Government to make its voice heard so that the reform of the Dublin Regulation is not just a commercial but is actually being made. If this is not the case, after the wicked modification of the security decrees and in particular with the restoration of what was once the humanitarian protection, our country will be even more damaged by flows that will inevitably intensify, fueling the social tensions that follow on our territories. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). I remind you that the peripheral areas are already suffering from serious hardships. Mr President, one final remark. We know that for various categories brought to their knees the Government is hypothesizing refreshments; I officially ask the Government to provide refreshments also for families and fishermen's companies that have been kidnapped in Libya. [[Applause]] For two months these families have been waiting for an answer that does not come from the government, which is deaf to their needs. We expect you to expect refreshments for these families and for these companies, which are blocked despite them. For all these reasons I declare our abstention vote on the European delegation law and our vote against the Government's reports on Italy's participation in the European Union. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u63	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, annual policy and consumption relations are Parliament's instrument of monitoring the conduct of the Government in the decision-making bodies of the European Union. This document, presented by Minister Amendola on 24 January and announced at the Assembly on 18 February of this year, is anachronistic and therefore unsuitable to describe the commitments that Italy has adopted and will adopt in the Union for the current year. The pandemic emergency from Covid-19, born in the spring, and the consequent global economic crisis have created a before and after, as for the twin towers; everything that has been written before (evaluations, perspectives and more) is anachronistic today, because it refers to a totally different scenario. Today we are about to vote with an act of direction on a report which explains the commitments Italy will have to make in Europe for 2020. Today is October 29th and the year ends December 31st. As the rapporteur, Senator Pittella, rightly pointed out, the importance of this document is known to Parliament as a whole. This is the problem, the main critical issue: the Italian Parliament, the representative body of the Italian people, deals only today, sixty-three days from 2021, the programmatic and consuntive relations and the law of delegation, continuing in fact to be completely exonerated from the European debate. What makes me think that? For example, a President-in-Office of the Council who does not allow the vote before his participation in the European tables, arguing that they are informal, or the delay in sending important documents as we have seen during the negotiation phase of the reform of the ESM, or, I repeat, the same debate today completely anachronistic and obsolete. Despite the absurdity of this debate, I take the opportunity to say what, in our opinion of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group, Italy should do in Europe. Never before is it essential to rethink the Maastricht parameters [[Applause]] , providing for the exclusion from the calculation of parameters useful to the balance of the budget and from the deficit ratio - GDP of productive investments, infrastructure, land security investments, environmental issues and investments in favour of population growth. All this in order to allow also the countries that must pursue the restructuring of the debt to be able to revive own economy by investing in strategic sectors. There must be a real simplification of the rules for access to European projects, while at the same time reviewing the co-financing obligations of European funds which often represent an unsustainable constraint on spending in particular situations in the country and which sometimes result in the non-use of such funds. It is necessary to promote at European level measures to enhance the national excellences of Made in Italy [[Applause]] and to pursue courageous policies that protect our businesses from predatory attacks from countries within and outside Europe. These are all appeals that during the hearings the representatives of the different sectors of our productive fabric strongly urged us. These concerns are added to those which make us fear for the very existence of our values, our history and our culture, which have recently been undermined by the unholy ratification of the Lighthouse Convention. This is not the Europe we want, a Europe made up of watered values, or worse denied, and surrogates: non-chocolate chocolate, non-parmesan parmesan cheese or insect diet compared to the Mediterranean diet. [[Applause]] That is why we are fighting, to have the resources necessary to defend our social and economic fabric. That is why we believe it is essential to ensure, in the negotiations on the legislative proposals for the new common agricultural policy (CAP), that adequate financial resources are maintained or at least similar to the previous multiannual financial framework of the Union, in order to protect national interests and guarantee a fair income for farmers. We must defend the principle of sovereignty and direct taxation in Europe. The current configuration of the Union lacks sufficient representation to impose taxes on citizens and businesses. On the European green deal, the different attitudes of Europe are evident between the plastic manufacturing sector, where Italy is among the leaders, and that of coal which is particularly concerned with Germany. The decarbonisation process will be supported by European funds. The plastic industry is likely to be hit by new taxation. The only result that this will result will be a drop in plastic production in Europe, and therefore in Italy [[Applause]] , and if the pandemic continues it will end up importing it from countries outside Europe that do not comply with any kind of legislation. This will certainly not benefit the environment. I would like to refer to an amendment tabled by Senator De Petris - the 5.310 - of which she just welcomed in this House, which bans palm and soya oil for the production of biofuels, in the name of your environmental ideology. We stress that this, firstly, runs counter to the European directive, secondly, it will slow down the conversion to sustainable mobility and, thirdly - more importantly - it will bring down the companies in the biorefining chain that have invested hundreds of millions. [[Applause]] Important decisions on climate neutrality must be avoided, which increase the European Union's 2030 targets by more than 40%. We must take account of the economic difficulties of the moment and we cannot allow our farmers and our farms to be taxed by ideology alone. We must promote the birth of a European agency for culture based in Italy, since our country is the world's first in terms of the number of sites declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO: there are 55 and we must value them with specific projects and investments, providing a real regulatory simplification for access to European projects. We must reiterate Italy's opposition to Turkey's accession to the European Union. [[Applause]] This is in the light of his actions, which threaten our energy and strategic interests. We must support in Europe the need to maintain a strong and privileged link with the United States of America and the Atlantic Alliance; all too often we have heard ambiguous statements from representatives of this majority and sometimes from our Government. As far as immigration is concerned, the commitments declared by the Government for the year 2020 are denied in fact, with a management that has allowed in recent months the uncontrolled entry of thousands of irregular immigrants that have endangered the health security of our citizens. We call on the Government to take all steps it deems useful to promote a strengthening of the external borders of the European Union, in order to combat trafficking in men and organised crime associated with it. Italy must commit itself to discouraging departures and supporting the creation, in the countries of departure and transit, of special centres in which to start immigrants in order to verify immediately the existence of the requirements required for political asylum. (at 12.07 a.m.) Let me conclude with a passage on the Sure Fund, since it has just been appointed. Italy has already taken 10 billion euros from the Sure Fund. You tell us it's a gift, but the truth is it's all very opaque. We do not know what the conditions are, because on the markets the rates are negative. How much Europe's rates cost us is forbidden to know, because everything has been secreted. Is that transparency? [[Applause]] Since we have the feeling, indeed the almost certain that this Government will not be able to guarantee what for us are the priorities for Italy in Europe, with the present I communicate the contrary vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione on both the documents under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u66	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, at last we arrive at the final lines, after a very long and troubled journey first in the Commission and then also in the Chamber. I don't remember a delegation law ever taking all this time. This path, as I see it, has also been weighed down by interventions often inappropriate and inappropriate, made by the prince of absenteeists in the Senate, which we see only on certain occasions and to use this House as a stage to attack the President of the Council and the Government. [[Applause]] We are dealing with the law of a European delegation and instead I have seen a lot of speeches on the subject, including on the amendments; everyone feels free to intervene on the European delegation law to deal with the issue that he considers most appropriate and useful also to foment religious and racial hatred. We should restore the necessary dignity to this House. So I too am distracted and out of the seed of European law... [[Comments]] Mr President, there is someone here who, as soon as he is pointed out by his colleagues, stands up and says that they are preventing him from speaking. I am addressing you, Mr President, and I ask that colleagues have respect, as we do from the beginning to the end. Thank you for your respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u67	Please, Senator Lorefice, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u68	LOREFICE (M5S). I continue, rather than conclude, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said "continue." LOREFICE (M5S). Thank you. Let us return to the issues of the European delegation law. I would like to thank the rapporteur, the Presidents and the Undersecretary, Mr Agea, for their patience, but I would like to invite the Undersecretary, Mr Agea, to give the Minister a message for the next time: a delegation law with 38 provisions between directives and regulations is difficult to manage in this House; allow the Assembly and the Commissions to work well because the issues of the European directives and of Europe are all important to us. Therefore, I would like to make an invitation to the Government and the Minister to do so. In particular, the law intervenes, for example, on the discipline of audiovisual media services, delegate to the Government a general reorder of the legislation and receiving, moreover, changes in Europe regarding the protection of human dignity and minors, promotion of European works, prohibition of advertising of gambling (another theme followed by the Movimento 5 Stars with the utmost attention). There is still action on unfair commercial practices in the agricultural chain, in order to better protect producers (and the attention of this majority and the Government for agricultural producers is always very high). The themes are many and so I try to avoid a mere list. I would just like to focus on a few issues that I consider to be more significant. With this delegation law we start the process for the transposition of the renewable energy directive (RED) II and the directive of the electricity market for us very important. As you know, for the Movimento 5 Stars this is a founding theme. Thanks to this rule we are very close to the idea of the future that we have in mind for eleven years: clean energy from renewable sources of the citizen and at his service. ( [[Applause).]] I would like to mention the energy communities, which is also a very dear topic to us, already anticipated in the year 2020 and by a decree of the Ministry of Economic Development of a few weeks ago. In this regard, I also thank Stefano Patuanelli for his hard work. Today we are taking a further step towards the creation of a simple and homogeneous legal framework that can contribute to their necessary expansion. For us the energy communities are important to overcome also the dependence on fossil sources and therefore also from sources outside the Nation, another point of the program of the Movement that is always realized with the intention of putting the citizen at the center and providing him with the tools to be part of the change towards a future that can no longer be postponed, thanks also to the resources of the recovery fund for which the President of the Council fought and that I thank for this. We have a unique opportunity to realize what has been said. We also receive the code of electronic communications, which is also a new step towards modernising our country. Although the Italian network has passed the lockdown test - we remember that in the days of total closure it was not obvious and that at least in the first days we did not have the certainty that the net held - it emerged with greater force the digital divides that some areas of the country live daily. Let's think about the difficulties encountered by some citizens due to the absence of an adequate connection to the performance of smart working or distance teaching. Well, with this measure, the foundations are laid for the renewal of the network and for its substantial strengthening aimed, among other things, at overcoming the condition of exclusion of the white areas still present in the country for which there has been intervention in the Commission. Another founding theme addressed by this bill is the environmental one. I am thinking immediately of the so-called SUP directive (single use plastics), the directive on disposable plastic, aimed at limiting the incidence of plastic products in the environment, and the directive on waste delivery facilities in ports. The first aims to limit the use of disposable plastic products in order to prevent their dispersion into the environment and the sea, while the second aims to equip ports with adequate waste delivery facilities and complying with the principles of the circular economy. I think it is also obvious to the most distracted people, such as the government's action, in this case too, to anticipate the transposition of European legislation and to open the way: I am thinking of the so-called saving bill, which saw its way back here in the Senate after the forced stop due to the pandemic; I am thinking of the plastic tax and the interventions for the renewal of the fleet for the transition to electric mobility, which we are encouraging from before the outbreak of the global pandemic. I am thinking above all of what was approved on 13 October last here in the Senate in relation to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The environment is at the heart of government and majority action and we are well aware of the responsibilities we have and the opportunities - and I repeat the term "opportunity" - of development that fair and coherent environmental management can and must generate. On the subject of SUP, I think it is also important to stress that, thanks to the intense mediation between Parliament and the Government, an amendment of great importance has been adopted, not only for the environment but also for Italy: I am referring to bioplastics, biodegradable and compostable ones, as a substitute for plastic for those disposable containers for which it is not possible to have a reusable alternative. The adoption of this amendment not only protects the environment, but gives security to a chain that sees us as leaders in Europe and that was likely to be damaged by incorrect interpretation of Community rules. I would like to mention a further amendment aimed at clarifying an ambiguity which had arisen in relation to the possible exclusion of disposable plastic cups from the legislation. Thanks to this amendment, strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars and by the whole majority, we overcome the risks of incorrect transposition of the directive and create a favourable environment for our Italian companies that will be able to enjoy a certain regulatory framework in order to plan the transition to a world free from disposable plastic. All this to say that, although the pandemic has surely slowed down the work that brought this bill to the Chamber, the text that is being examined today is the result of a great commitment and synergy created between Government, Parliament and oppositions and reflects the vision that we have of the country for the next few years. The restart was and is complicated... PRESIDENT. I invite you to conclude, Senator Lorefice. LOREFICE (M5S). But today we give companies and all other actors a clearer and more homogeneous regulatory framework that will benefit the recovery of normal economic activities and the development of Italy. For these reasons and for all that we have done so far and that we will vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause and comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u69	If you want to applaud, you can.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u70	LOREFICE (M5S). I'm done. And thank you for the applause. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u71	Absolutely not. It is I who keep the times and it has been given an extra minute, as I do with everyone. Don't let it happen. If you want to applaud your colleague, you can do it now. Applause.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u72	LOREFICE (M5S). I thank the opposition for the applause and exchange. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u73	I invite colleagues to take their seats. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1721, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1, which has been accepted by the Government, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u74	Mr President, I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u75	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u76	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Lorefice, Nannicini, Ginetti, Lonardo and Durnwalder. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, I suspend the sitting, which will resume with the information of the President-in-Office of the Council. (The sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m. and resumed at 12.44 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u77	The next item is: "Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the DPCM of 24 October 2020, setting out further measures to combat the spread of the outbreak by COVID-19" I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to Parliament to explain the further restrictive measures which have been urgently needed to combat the subtle and sudden spread of the contagion from Covid-19. As is well known, on the evening of Saturday 24 October I signed a new decree, with the result of a long and articulated confrontation between all the forces of majority, with the Presidents of the Region and with the Technical and Scientific Committee. On Saturday afternoon, I also had to inform the Presidents of the Chambers of my intention to report, pursuant to Article 2 (5) of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, on the content of the further measures taken. In agreement with the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament, I wanted to inform the Presidents of the parliamentary groups of majority and opposition about the important decisions we were about to take and met them on the same afternoon on Saturday 24. Data from the last few weeks indicate a rapidly growing epidemiological curve, with virus spread across the national territory. The RT index has reached the critical threshold of 1.5 and the number of new virus positives has grown alarmingly. It is now difficult for operators to fully trace transmission chains. The same, however, is happening in many other European countries, particularly in Germany and France, as admitted publicly by Chancellor Merkel and President Macron respectively. This epidemiological picture is causing a particularly severe pressure on our health service. In fact, in recent days there has been a significant increase in the number of people hospitalized and consequently the employment rates of patients in the medical area and in intensive care have increased. This leads to the need to take measures to cool and mitigate as much as possible the contagion growth curve, in order to alleviate the already very heavy burden on the health system. I summarize below the reasons and also the criteria that inspired these last choices. First of all, I would like to stress that the measures taken are in line with both merit and method, with the decisions taken so far by the Government, all of which are based on the principles of maximum precaution, adequacy and proportionality and never tend to underestimate the severity and unpredictability of the pandemic. We have never claimed to be out of danger and a constant condition of necessary alert. In recent months, we have acted accordingly, constantly engaging in the implementation of a plurality of measures designed to achieve an appropriate mechanism for preventing infection and strengthening the health service. The efforts made so far in both financial and organisational terms to strengthen the organisation of the health service have been remarkable. Such interventions appear all the more important if one has the goodness to consider that in recent years the repetition of the various measures of containment of the expenditure had led to a significant reduction also of the staff of the National Health Service. In the perspective of consolidating and stabilising the preventive apparatus built and in the awareness of not having passed the phase of the pandemic risk, the choice of extending the state of national emergency that - you will remember - was announced and then deliberated a first time in July last, despite the presence of a pandemic picture strongly attenuated, and later in October, when instead a new re-emergence of the contagion was already revealed. I would remind you that this decision, by some (even among those present in this House) strongly criticised, has actually allowed us to maintain the legal framework that is the prerequisite for our entire emergency discipline, as well as for the continuity of operation of the virus alert, prevention and combating system. The measures are therefore part of a continuum of progressively more restrictive and rigorous measures, adapted to the evolution of the epidemic that is moving with increasing and worrying rapidity. With the measures adopted last 24 October we have taken the most decisive step; we have chosen to intervene on activities, areas and situations that can directly or indirectly promote aggregation and excessive influx of people, often concentrated at certain times of the day. The measures introduced are based on the indications and recommendations made by our experts and scientists and also refer to international protocols formulated to combat the pandemic. I would like to emphasise in particular that the Higher Institute of Health, together and in agreement with the Ministry of Health, the Conference of the Regions and various research bodies, including universities, have published, and is therefore accessible to all, the document that I invite you to consider as entitled "Prevention and response to Covid-19: evolution of strategy and planning in the transition phase autumn-Winter." In this document, in relation to the evolution of epidemiological scenarios, the specifications and various modulations of the measures to be taken are represented. In the state the epidemic is rapidly deteriorating and is compatible at national level with the type 3 scenario, which is described in the study, with faster progression in some Italian regions. In particular, for the scenario of type 3, the study mentioned includes among the measures to be taken just those to which the government has adhered. We have therefore not acted on arbitrary criteria, nor by operating an improper hierarchy of values between different activities with the result of appreciating some at the expense of others, but we have adhered to scientific evidence that has allowed us to make sound prognostic assessments. Not only that, once the more detailed picture of the new measures to be included in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on the first afternoon of the same Saturday 24 October, the Government, in the person of the Minister of Health, sent the draft to the Technical and Scientific Committee (CTS), requesting an expert opinion also on the merits of the specific measures. With Minutes No 121, which were made a few hours later than the same day, the CTS - I read literally - after extensive analysis shares the measures provided for in the text. He then added a few limited remarks that the Government has, moreover, basically transposed. You know that the system of publicity of CTS documents provides for publication, and therefore accessibility to all, after forty-five days; Minutes No 121 will therefore be fully accessible in a few days' time. Moreover, the rationale behind the measures is consistent with the model adopted for the recovery phase. There is therefore consistency in the government's strategy to address and manage the pandemic. In fact, our model, which led to the creation of four risk classes - low, medium-low, medium-high and high - is based on three parameters: exposure, proximity and aggregation. As is well known, the progressive reopening of activities first involved some classes of work activities, then commercial ones and, finally, those that we might call playful-recreational. For this reason, at the moment when we are forced into progressive restrictions, so now, we inevitably have to adopt the same criteria, but moving backwards, starting from those activities that presuppose and determine propensity to social relations, even if not above all, between people unknown. In particular the intervention has decidedly addressed with greater severity to three sectors: evening restaurants, theatres, cinemas and concert halls, gyms and swimming pools, whose activities have been suspended. All sports competitions are also suspended, with the exception of professional competitions at national level, without, however, the presence of the public. As far as basic sports activities are concerned, only non-contact sports are allowed and in any case outside of gyms and swimming pools. Within the same logic is included the extension of the ban to organize parties, also with reference to celebrations following civil or religious ceremonies, which, as you will recall, with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 13 October could be carried out up to 30 people. Just as in this same logic the strong recommendation not to receive different people of the living in private homes, except for work needs and situations of necessity or urgency. Similarly inspired by a logic of containment of the opportunities for aggregation and meeting is the recommendation not to move, except for work, study, health, for situations of necessity or to carry out activities or to take advantage of unspent services. This complex apparatus of prohibitions, suspensions and recommendations has been the subject of criticism, even very heated, by first of all the categories directly concerned, but also by many citizens, who have expressed their dissent, even with spontaneous protests in some cities. The parties involved in these choices were in contradiction with the obligation to adopt strict safety protocols, which was, as you will recall, one of the prerequisites that allowed us, starting from the month of May, the progressive reopening of the same activities. On this point, however, I would like to reiterate once again that the decision to temporarily suspend or reduce activity in certain sectors - here, as in other European countries - does not stem from the failure to respect security measures which, with exceptions, have also been taken rigorously and at the price of sacrifices and not negligible organizational costs. If we have been forced to make such radical choices, the cause lies exclusively in the need to reduce, in the presence of a widespread and exponential contagion, without that they can identify precise, circumscribed outbreaks, the opportunities of sociality, of relationship, especially in those contexts in which it is easier to lower the guard and therefore the indispensable precautions of distance and the use of personal protective devices are loosened. Moreover, the objective difficulty - I emphasize objective difficulty - of ensuring always the strict respect of the rules of distancement on the means of transport, even in the hours of greater influx of the users, combined with the lack of full use of the funds made available by the Government by the Regions for additional services of local transport (they are currently used 120 million euros of the 300 made available), requires to lighten the pressure on public and private transport, limiting it only to the displacements of necessity, avoiding as much as possible assemblies to the stops or inside the means. I repeat that, unlike what is attributed to the Government, the activities that have been suspended have not been suspended because they are considered not essential; these activities are still fundamental - and the Government is fully aware of them - for the well-being of the person who, even on the basis of established medical acquisitions, presupposes the care of the body, but also the nourishment of the spirit. The choice derives exclusively from the need, based on scientific evidence, to reduce as much as possible social contacts and interactions between people. For the same reason, among the measures contained in the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers we have provided for the obligation of distance teaching for a percentage of at least 75% for secondary schools of second grade only. This measure has also cost us a great deal, especially in view of the intensive work done in the summer months to equip the school with a system of prevention and safety to allow the resumption of educational activities in the presence that constitutes for us all - as I have already said in this House - an indispensable value. Similarly, the incentive in public administrations to smart working and the differentiation of the time of entry of staff responds to the same ratio. This method of working, however, is also recommended in the private sector. Let me focus, in particular, on the extent to which we have suspended the performances in theatres, concerts and cinemas. I have already had the opportunity to say so in several places: this choice has been particularly painful. The protagonists of the world of entertainment, I am talking about artists, musicians, authors, entrepreneurs, technicians and workers are now facing huge difficulties for many months that aggravate a condition that we can define of structural criticality, given the new technologies that risk to obscure the magic that comes from the traditional enjoyment of concerts and theatrical and cinematographic performances in the rooms open to the public. Unfortunately, the same safety protocols, although they have offered guarantees to avoid contamination in the halls, however in recent months they have severely limited the presence of the public, contributing to a general depletion of the entire sector. We are also aware that the damage caused to this sector is also due to the organizational arrangements which are based on non-short-term programming. This means that, on the one hand, the closure interrupts activities on which it had invested from the point of view of human and financial resources already for a long time, therefore closes the prospect of revenues that had obviously been the result of investment; on the other hand, the same reopening of the activities, that we hope happens as soon as possible, will not mean immediate restart precisely given the need for an adequate programming. This choice also weighs us, if not more, for the meaning that the closure of these places implies, for their social and cultural value, not only economic. We know how much in those spaces - I speak, precisely, of the theatres, cinemas and concert halls - the person nourishes the spirit and articles the ability to define his own identity, even his own emotionality. In those places the feeling of belonging to a collective dimension is strengthened, the same social cohesion is cemented that is nourished by the sharing of those values of civilizations all the more essential in such a harsh moment of crisis as that which humanity is going through. The Government is fully aware of the immense sacrifices required of all these categories of workers and immediately listened. We are extremely sensitive to the manifestations of dissent, protest and frustration that have occurred in recent days in some cities of Italy: citizens and workers who peacefully express their discomfort, their anxieties and fears, who see their economic security undermined and fear for the future of their activities and their work. That is why we considered it right to immediately confront the representatives of the categories most penalized by the new restrictive measures in order to explain directly to them the reasons underlying these interventions and to announce the proposals for refreshment and compensation identified in good time by the Government. Aware from the beginning of the impact that these restrictions would have on a large number of commercial, productive, cultural and sporting activities and on workers engaged in these sectors, the Government has in fact in parallel - at the same hours as we worked for restrictive measures - prepared appropriate instruments of intervention in support of these categories, in continuity with the work of the same Government, which has always and immediately chosen the path of support and refreshment, in order to avoid that the health crisis can suddenly become an economic and social crisis, sharpening even more pre-existing imbalances and generating new inequalities. I regard this as a decisive and qualifying choice of economic and social policy. [[Applause]] This new decree-law, the so-called ristori decree, was published yesterday in the Official Journal and was sent to Parliament at the same time yesterday evening. It contains a set of interventions that provide immediate, substantial and additional support compared to the one planned at the beginning of the pandemic and in recent months. The package of measures provided for in the decree-law can be quantified in total in 5.4 billion euros, if we speak of net debt, and in 6.2 billion in terms of net balance to be financed. First of all, more than 2 billion were reserved for a new grant for the activities of the sectors affected by the new provisions, with levels of relief and compensation differentiated according to the intensity of the economic damage suffered by the categories. We have identified four bands, with different scales of refreshment coefficients (100, 150, 200, up to 400 percent), with reference to the compensation already received according to the decree-law relaunch. As regards the method of payment, a double track is provided: those who had previously submitted the application for the first edition of the grant will receive, by mid-November, a transfer from the Agency of revenue directly to the current account that the beneficiary has already indicated. Those who had not joined or who had remained outside the grant, because they had a turnover of more than EUR 5 million, will now be able to submit a request and the refreshment will be paid in identical ways - we trust already for the middle of December - with a new procedure started in mid-November. In addition, for a further six weeks, the ordinary Integration Fund (the ordinary allowance) and the Integration Fund will be refinanced as a derogation linked to the Covid-19 emergency. At the same time, emergency income will be re-established, with two new monthly instalments starting at 400 euros payable by all those who were already entitled to it and by those who received a family income below the benefit in September. [[Applause]] A EUR 100 million fund has been set up to assist agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture sectors in order to grant grants to businesses in the sector. We have also allocated EUR 1 billion to support the world of culture and tourism, while significant resources have been allocated to workers in the sports sector and amateur sports associations and societies. Finally, we have prepared a set of measures to strengthen the health response to the epidemiological emergency. Among these, I note in particular EUR 30 million to facilitate the administration of rapid swabs to doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice. It is just yesterday that two new collective agreements have been signed - I welcome them - for doctors of general medicine and for pediatricians of free choice, which include among the new clauses the possibility of involving these professional categories and health workers in the work of strengthening the prevention work and provide for the involvement of these doctors in the epidemiological investigation activity and also for testing. It is a very important fact because it very lightens the intense activity and overload at this time of the prevention department. It should be stressed that the Italian Government's commitment to overcoming the crisis by Covid has been unfolding, since the beginning of the pandemic, also in the European and multilateral context. Without a coordinated response at EU and global level, no state alone can overcome the health and economic crisis. The European Union's attention remains high, all the more as a result of the rise of Covid in our continent in recent weeks. This approach was developed in particular at the last European Council on 15 and 16 October. I read from the conclusions of that European Council: It invited the Council itself, the Commission and the Member States to continue the overall coordination effort on the basis of the best available scientific knowledge, in particular as regards quarantine rules, cross-border contact tracking, testing strategies, joint assessment of diagnostic methods, mutual recognition between test States, temporary limitation of non-essential travel to the European Union. The same Council: It reiterated the need to define a robust authorisation and monitoring process, to create vaccination capacity in the European Union and to ensure access to fair and affordable vaccines and leaders encouraged global cooperation. Basically, the competence in the field of health certainly remains national, but the Heads of State and Government of the Member States, the same summits of the Community institutions agreed on the need for effective coordination because it will make us all stronger. We can better prevent and overcome health problems. With this in mind of European sharing and coordination, it is this afternoon - shortly - that we will be taking stock of the health situation. There will be a video conference with all European leaders and leaders of the EU institutions. On this occasion, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, will present the package of proposals for measures to respond to the Covid pandemic that the EU Commission adopted on Wednesday 28 October, which aims precisely to promote adequate continental coordination on health, in particular on testing strategies and anti-vid vaccine. This afternoon's videoconference will be followed by more because at the last European Council we agreed to exchange information and constantly confront ourselves so as to continue as closely as possible in the strategy of countering the pandemic. I myself suggested, at the last European Council, that the health ministers also be accompanied by the leaders, who are at the forefront of technical work. So this afternoon, I'll also have the Minister of Health Hope by my side. The European Union's health response remains closely linked to economic response. The two dedications are not alternatives, but complementary at national level, but also at European level. A positive conclusion to the negotiations on Next Generation EU and the new multi-annual financial framework is therefore absolutely urgent, because it is primarily a moral obligation for the tens of thousands of European victims and the citizens of our continent to start the programmes and the provision of European funds as soon as possible. Italy remains committed to this end in a strong and intense political-diplomatic action in the whole field. I'm going to conclude. The renewed impetus of the virus poses us with a new challenge, no less threatening than the first battle we fought last spring. It is a second challenge that continues to invest all over the world and with a growing intensity - as we can all see - the whole of the European Union. All European countries are facing the dramatic impact of the second wave of the pandemic and are taking more restrictive measures to contain the contagion, very similar - to be honest - to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 24 October to bend the curve of the contagion. A little now all European countries have introduced restrictive measures, in some cases even stricter than ours, to protect the health of citizens and their economies. All European governments, with their merits and demerits - of course this is also true of this Government - are facing an enemy that today forces us to take a step back. We are therefore forced to change some life habits and our behaviors. Last week the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella reminded us that all the articulations of the democratic order, in order to pursue the welfare of society and the development of the territories, know that they must always work with a spirit of unity and cohesion, aware of the many common interests. This is the time to stay truly united. [[Applause]] We must remain united, even in the variety of opinions, while respecting the different sensitivities. I thank those who have supported our prosthetic efforts to save both human lives and the productive fabric of the country, and all those who, even in the legitimate political dialectic that characterizes and must characterize a modern democracy, offer a constructive contribution to our prosthetic efforts for the good and the interest of the country. There is still great uncertainty and uncertainty about the phase we are going through. I assure you, the government will make every effort to secure the country. All of us in the government are aware that we must commit ourselves with all our energies and all our determination to this task. In particular, we are fully aware that we are here not for us, but - as Einstein wrote - we are here for other men: first of all for those whose smile and well-being depends on our happiness, but also for that multitude of strangers to whose fate we are bound by a bond of sympathy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u79	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u80	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, my opinion is that we are living a time far different from what Italy experienced last spring: it is the time that has opened this autumn and - it has to be acknowledged - it is much worse. We should make amends - not only those who are here, but also those who are out of here - for forgetting in the summer that the autumn came after the summer and that lowering the guard outside of here and inside the parliamentary classrooms would have been a tragic mistake. I do not belong to the category of those who blow on the fire, but I find equally guilty both those who blow on the fire, and those who elevate silence on reason, on reason, on behaviour. This is not the time to express silence in a Parliamentary Chamber. What we have done in the past we will do again and I will do it again and that is to give the trust of a Group, of a political history and of a person who speaks in this House and speaks to you, definitely in your hands. Before being partisans of a part and partisans of an idea, we are Italians and we are outside and inside this House. Allow me, however, to make three points which concern the House, but which particularly concern the Government. You have been constantly singing to the debate: I agree, I stress and I endorse. When you enter a Parliamentary Chamber, however, you cannot sing the praises of confrontation and argue that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is immutable. You cannot come to a Chamber with a report on the relaunch decree, which has already been presented to Italian citizens, without going through a comparison in the parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause]] I say this and I stress it because I continue to argue that, from this much more delicate phase of the first one, it only comes out if it is generated, only if it germinates from the parliamentary activity and from the activity of the Government a new civic spirit, and it is the second point that I face. You made an appeal at the end of your speech to remain united. I also subscribe to this, President Conte, but it is not enough for the appeal to remain united. There is a civic spirit, a republican spirit, that we must recreate from the foundations and not for its responsibility, because you come to the end of a political and institutional path, you do not carry exclusive responsibilities on this. But from the great national emergencies - and the Italy of the twentieth century has passed there at least a couple of times - we emerge by recreating a spirit of broad community, otherwise it is difficult to overcome crises that have such characteristics, that throw us from the state of emergency to a state of exception and the state of exception needs a formidable republican spirit and the republican spirit can be recreated, yes, thanks to a parliamentary majority, but - I add - why not trusting in an institutional table that involves the entire Chamber? Everyone who's been through emergencies like this has done it before you. In conclusion, I come to the third point. Mr President, you have rightly mentioned protocols and more, and I would like to highlight two aspects, apologizing to the Presidency if I am out of time. The first is that we also have a duty to think about what has been done, because it has already happened more than once that technical-scientific committee on one side and part of its government have entered a collision course: I think and talk about a problem that I know quite well, that of transport. The Ministerial Decree No. 39 of July last obliges school and Ministry of Transport to harmonize, because otherwise it is not possible to properly govern the reopening of schools. And we're facing a transport minister who doesn't believe in what he sees, but sees what he believes. I see that you continue - you have done well and I agree - finally to put your finger on this point, because I imagine, listening to the Scientific and Technical Committee, that from there the biggest points of crisis have sprung up. The risk I see is that social and territorial cohesion may somehow enter into a crisis that I do not say irreversible, but that we are obliged to face with extraordinary weapons. This is what the President of the Republic said, calling a few hours ago the Supreme Defence Council, a very authoritative institutional body, which is convened at particular times and you know it well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u81	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u82	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the widespread spread of infection is bringing the whole of Europe to its knees and many governments on the continent are taking tough and painful measures. If it is clear, however, that the pandemic is not the fault of the governments - and this must be clear, if not to some bizarre say minority - and it is not the fault of the citizens either, it should be equally clear that governments, when dealing with the emergency - in my opinion - should demonstrate the same responsibility and diligence they claim from the citizens. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since March last year, your Government's legislative activity has had no respite: a flood of decree-laws, all accompanied by hundreds of legislative decrees, which I have not understood at what stage - many of them are still suspended - and 23 decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers, three of them in the last ten days. I do not have the impression that the flow of this legislative activity is equal to the effectiveness. In my opinion, you have reached the second wave, which someone denied, unprepared. I also think it is important to admit this honestly. For example, without being a major expert, it was clear that health, transport and school would be the most exposed sectors. These are the areas where, in my opinion, unpreparedness has proved most evident. Tracing of contagions has been missed, territorial and hospital health facilities have not been adequate, starting from intensive ones, and we have witnessed hours and hours of queues of citizens to make a buffer. I am leaving out the public transport sector, which you referred to. I already said about the school. We spent days on wheelchairs or wheelchairs, while, in fact, teachers and principals are missing and schools have not been sanitized. Whenever the occasion arises, you and many colleagues insist and invoke the sense of responsibility for the well-being of the country, remembering that we are all in the same boat and counting ahead. And I, every time, wonder whether these heartfelt appeals are also addressed to its majority, in particular to the Movimento 5 Stars, or whether they, in their tetragon, unreasonable and purely identity rejection of the ESM, are exempted for not too many mysterious reasons. If, in fact, we had taken that money on June 1st, maybe nothing would be at the point where it is. Therefore, it is useless to respond arrogantly to the workers of the spectacle who protest, because they do not have full awareness of the severity of the crisis - as one of its authoritative Minister has said - because it is not so. Actually, that's not how you can call everyone to that sense of responsibility that, at times, you don't even prove yourself. I leave out the relationship with the Regions: who closes, who opens, who closes in half and who opens in half. I think that the cost of unpreparedness is added to that of the pandemic and makes it more burdensome. I also think, Mr Conte, that admitting that we have made mistakes or underestimated ourselves is the best way to deserve confidence in our common future.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u84	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, influential colleagues and colleagues, we are often called upon to speak at this time on complex and difficult issues for the future of our country and for the health of our fellow citizens. Every time we have to shake our voices, every time we have to be concerned about using wrong words and words. I have decided to be as the usual frank, direct, and to speak from our point of view, that of the Democratic Party, with great transparency. I say this now: the Democratic Party, the Group that I have the honour to represent, is in favour of the decree-law approved by the Council of Ministers and agrees on the contents of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that you have launched in the last few hours, simply because the country needed this. You had to do it, and we appreciate you doing it the best you can. [[Applause.]] We have to frame the context, and the context in which the DPCM is inserted is that very simply we had to limit the circulation of people, the moments of encounter, the opportunities for exchange of our worst enemy, the virus. You have done so in the manner you have felt, following the indications of the Scientific and Technical Committee and also hearing the majority and opposition groups. You have done well and, if we need another decree from the President of the Council of Ministers in the near future because the situation will get worse - which I do not hope - we obviously invite you again to come back to Parliament to explain it to us, and we will be at your side with an objective: just as the DPCMs do to reduce individual freedoms, they can be launched to return them as soon as the conditions allow. [[Applause.]] We are with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you tell us that the Government and - I add - Parliament must do everything in its power to ensure that these measures are limited in time, and for this to happen they must be incisive. I have read statements, interviews, the distinction of individual personalities, even scientific, in some cases government advisors, representatives of opposition parties and - alas - also of the majority, and I have expressed on this an opinion that I confirm: all this seems to me political archaeology, looking around, in other countries, around the world, seeing what is happening. I believe that we must be aware of the picture that we are given to live today and respect for the life of every single citizen who we will be able to save with these measures. I always respect those who express their free opinion, even in the squares, even against what I am saying, of course, or what the government supports. I have, however, also despised - and I stress this term - for those who, at a time like this, hope to succeed in the greatest tragedy that our Planet is experiencing. [[Applause.]] Mr President, I do not care at the moment whether mistakes have been made. These are evaluations that the electoral body will make when it is called upon to do so, which we will do in the parliamentary debates, in the groups, which will make individual people among themselves. Surely there have been mistakes; there have been in transport as well as in health care. Mistakes have been made to allow public competitions to go ahead, allowing provincial elections at the beginning of December, moving thousands of people. On these issues we would like to speak with the decree-law; it is our duty, it is Parliament's duty. I can't accept the precedent that the decrees-laws don't change. But today I am not interested in analyzing mistakes: I am interested in looking at the future of the country. And, to look at the future of the country, I have requests for you to do so: I ask you, Mr President, to consider - you, not others, not opinionists in the newspapers - whether the individual ministers are adequate to the emergency we are experiencing, because this is important. This government must move forward and must have the best women and men to save our country. It is also up to you, Mr President, to verify - in view of what is said - the holding of the majority. We must count on a strong parliamentary majority to allow us to govern our country well. [[Applause]] Mr President, it is always up to you - perhaps the honour, but above all the burden at such a difficult stage - to find a way of involving oppositions. I asked to speak among the first because I want to say it to the opposition forces: they certainly have different positions, of great criticism, and they must not be destructive; they must evaluate, when they make an intervention and say something, if that intervention and that position are good for the future of our country and the national community. But they must have a place, which is up to you to identify, that is a bicameral parliamentary committee, that is another structure, where they can be compared with the government and the majority, that is a committee of national salvation. Allow me to make a reference to our French friends. National Salvation Committee reminds me of freedom, égalité and fraternité: solidarity on the part of the whole Parliament with French friends and President Macron for what has happened in the last few hours. [[Applause]] Parliamentary involvement, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is central. Parliament represents the country. All parliamentarians, by majority and opposition, have reports on the territory. Parliament must be heard, the bodies which come from Parliament are a valuable treasure for government action. We are approaching the budget law which, with the additional European funds, will be the keystone of this and this situation. We cannot afford to make mistakes, Mr President. We are willing and we ask all colleagues and all political forces to cooperate. If we show that we are a united community at this stage and if we are able, from our own positions, to make our contribution, I believe that we will emerge from this crisis, even stronger and more capable of giving hope to our citizens. This is what the country is asking us today: not polemics, but truth, responsibility and future. We, Mr President, cannot make a mistake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u85	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u86	Mr President, Mr Conte, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago there were tribes in southern Africa who lived hunting and using arrows soaked in a very poisonous substance. Those tribes belonged to so many different family groups; yet, whenever it was necessary to decide the fate of that people, those tribes sat down to discuss. In order to prevent someone from thinking of using those powerful weapons, they had devised a very practical method, in fact, which was to delegate a member of the group to collect all the weapons and hide them in a safe place until the confrontation was over. And so the group sat down and discussed even for days, for nights, until it arrived at a shared solution of problems. Today, my invitation in this House is that we should really put down our own arrows, our own differences, and work together. [[Applause]] , to get this country out of the biggest crisis since the post-war period. These are difficult times for everyone. For days I have been receiving messages from all my medical colleagues, who tell me again about overcrowded wards, lack of beds, massacred shifts. At the same time, just a few hours ago I received the message of an entrepreneur, worried about not being able to start again, because his business was again closed, despite having invested the savings of a lifetime to secure it. They seem to be irreconcilable positions, but our task must be precisely to find a path that - as you said, Mr President - secures health and the economy. To do this, however, we have a very precious ally, who every day moves giant steps, that is, science. When I first arrived in this House, two and a half years ago, after 20 years of dealing with biomedical science and research, first in Washington and then in Naples, I often wondered how to talk about science and research in this House and how to raise my colleagues' awareness of the importance of investing in these areas. I never imagined that we would talk so much about science and research, because, for the first time in history, we are making political decisions using a scientific method and this - in my opinion - is fundamental. [[Applause]] It is only thanks to science if we can see a light today, beyond this darkness. As you said, Mr President-in-Office, when this pandemic hit us, we did not have the means and faced an unknown enemy with empty hands. Instead, in recent months we have developed diagnostic tools, which allow us to make timely diagnosis today; we have protocols that can slow down the clinical evolution of the disease; we are developing antiviral drugs and monoclonal antibodies and therefore we must not lose course now. It is essential that the Regions implement all the ministerial directives for the reorganisation of the hospital network and the territorial network. [[Applause]] Mr President, we are working on a proposal for interventions, in the short and medium term, which we will submit to you, as the 5 Star Movimento Group of the Senate, and we hope that this will be a valuable contribution, in order to deal with the difficult weeks to come. For us, in fact, it is essential to plan, having clear ideas, and in this programming we must keep alive the memory of what we have experienced, the memory of doctors barred in the cockpits, the memory of the coffins of Bergamo. I will keep alive in my heart the memory of Anna Maria, my colleague of a lifetime, also a researcher at CNR, who in April left me for Covid [[Applause]] and that I tried for 20 days to rip off the fan that kept her alive. Never before, Mr President, is this memory alive, because we have fallen back into the same nightmare. We must therefore think of a new normality that, by force of things, will be made of distance teaching, smart working, dematerialized recipes, territorial responsibility and care of proximity. Perhaps a virus was needed to understand, at a high price, that another normality is also possible. We, however, must be able to build this normality, this new future, starting from putting aside our differences, our arrows, and building a safety net that protects health and the economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u87	Senator Unterberger is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u88	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are in the second wave and, if anyone wants to blame the Government, he should blame all the governments of Europe: I remember Spain, which has a million and 200,000 contagions, the data out of control of Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands; France forced to a new lockdown, not to mention what is happening in the United Kingdom and the United States. Sure, while the first wave overwhelmed us like a tsunami, the second was predictable and should have been better prepared. But this also applies to all European countries and, above all, it cannot be contested by those who, only a few weeks ago, stubbornly refused to wear the mask even to the Senate. [[Applause]] The virus feeds on social relationships and there are no recipes or absolute truths to debunk it before the vaccine. Everyone has to make attempts: politics does it and science does it too, which does not speak with one voice. Then we can discuss whether this or that measure was right or wrong, but, holding firm the will not to close schools and productive activities, there are not many choices left, also because it is not true that public transport can be easily enhanced, as today Governor Fedriga well explains on the Republic. The measures contained in the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on the evening closure of restaurants and leisure places are an ongoing attempt everywhere, as a first step to avoid more painful measures. Let us take Germany, for example, which has a pandemic development similar to ours. We know that it is a federal state, where the responsibility for taking measures lies with the Land alone. Well, yesterday Chancellor Merkel, in agreement with all the Presidents of the Land, resolved exactly the same measures that are contained in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that we are talking about: closing of restaurants and bars at 6 p.m. and of cinemas, theatres, gyms as well as all the leisure activities to which we can give up first. This morning the debate was held in the Bundestag, where Merkel said that these measures were necessary, appropriate and proportionate. Therefore, to blame the Italian Government for the fact that the measures are not based on scientific data seems to me a little'stretched for the hair. Of course, there were also criticisms of oppositions and the same debates in Germany as we did on the role of Parliament, on individual freedom, on transport and on the lack of doctors. The most obstinate criticism came from the AfD, the party that in Europe is allied with the League. [[Applause]] The AfD's parent company explained its concept, saying that traffic is also dangerous, but that's not why it's banned. The same applies to the pandemic: since we know that certain sections of the population are very fragile and others are not, we must isolate only those, because - he says - freedom is worth more than life. With this statement you can agree or not (I certainly am not), but at least you have expressed a concept and made a counter-proposal. Honestly from the opposition I hear only criticism, but I have not yet understood their concept and their proposals and what they would do. [[Applause]] On the day of announcing restrictive measures, it is objected that this is how the economy is killed; on the day of trying to avoid a new closure, it is objected that this is how people's health is played. I remember that last May, when I criticized the Government for the centralistic approach in the management of phase 2, I received a lot of applause from the opposition. Today, however, that the Government involves the local authorities more, the same say that they wash their hands and dump responsibility on Regions and mayors. [[Applause]] I wonder, then, if you want to take down the Covid or the government here. [[Applause]] I am happy with all the calls for greater involvement of oppositions, which I believe will only be possible when they too show a more constructive and responsible attitude. If we ask citizens to be responsible, we must be responsible first, otherwise let us not be surprised that those most affected by the measures protest in the streets with the dramatic infiltration of the professionals of chaos and protest. What the Italian Government has done better than the German government, which was criticized by the opposition, was to link the new decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to the certainty of resources for the most affected in the so-called ristori decree. It is good to involve the local authorities more closely, which, as we have always said in this House, are the ones who have the pulse of the situation, because there are differences from territory to territory. In Bolzano, for example, the closure of schools, which will take place next week on the occasion of the Feast of All Saints, will automatically result in a reduction of contacts. Of course, the pandemic brings to the surface the fragility of the Italy system, which sees a structural shortage of personnel, doctors, nurses and schools. Here too, however, I have to say that the most ferocious criticisms come from those political forces which, with their flag measure, have aggravated this situation. The shortage of hospital staff is also felt very much in South Tyrol; many of our students who go to study in the German-speaking countries then remain there for the best working conditions that are offered to them. Moreover, as we have repeatedly contested, doctors and nurses who come from Germany and Austria to us, because of absurd legislation that contradicts the European spirit, cannot work in our Province, despite our population being two thirds of German-speaking and 90% perfectly bilingual. This without a logical reason, if not for an out-of-time nationalism, that a center-left government should refuse. My umpteenth appeal is therefore to finally change this legislation. These are the wishes of our Group, which go hand in hand with the more general desire to finally see the controversy put aside. The time of responsibility is not yet over, we really need a collaborative spirit between all political forces and all institutional actors. The enemy is called coronavirus, let's not forget it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u89	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u90	Mr President, Italian citizens and citizens are disoriented, concerned, sometimes disheartened or full of hope for when we come out of this difficult phase. Some people tell us that they do not want to be in our position as politicians, because we have to make complicated and painful decisions. Your speech, Mr President, was imbued with suffering about the difficulty of the moment. We have found ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr President, in this historic time, asking our citizens to give up but - according to the sentence in the decree of the President of the Council of bureaucratic ministers - to the essential activities, but to the deepest humanity, to be connected with each other, avoiding hugs, kisses and encounters even in the family, with children and our friends, because this is the weapon to fight the virus. It is a very hard test for our deep humanity. As a result, we are going to give up our personal freedom, with the risk of further restrictive measures to protect health, to produce new unemployed people and to widen the scissors even further between guaranteed and non-securities. I believe, Mr President, that we are all aware that neither in nature, nor in another conceivable form, there is no refreshment that compensates for the dignity of work, which is the essence of human subjectivity and of the person. [[Applause.]] There is no refreshment that compensates and equals the foundation of the Democratic Republic, the right which it recognizes to all citizens. The dramatic nature of the epidemiological picture is neither different nor more serious than the tragic social and psychological upheaval in which the Italian population is pouring and the facts of the last days are evidence of it. We condemn the episodes of violence, but let us be in tune with the great social distress of our population. Health protection must therefore be in harmony with the development of the economy and work and we must absolutely guarantee the right to school. Politics is hard work, because it is made of priority choices. Two major countries, France and Germany, which are preparing to decide more or less hard lockdowns have a priority: to leave school open. So we must accompany and guide this dark hour - to paraphrase the great Churchill - with a concrete plan here at six months, Mr President, or at least in the medium term. This is what we ask for as Italy Viva. What better place to confront parliamentarians, by majority and opposition, and also, of course, between heterogeneous parties, present in the same majority? We have to show the light after dark, because in 2021 we will have to start running again. This is the request that we make: an in-depth political confrontation, serious, not to look only at the next day and the next DCCM, but to ferry our nation beyond the crisis. Politics is nothing more than a response to the needs of the population, so it is both quick and forward-looking. Then, Mr President, do not be angry with us; we must all together ensure that the apparatus of the State and that of the Ministries do not accumulate any delays of any kind. We must work day and night to ensure that the INPS summits ensure that there is no longer any delay in the delivery of the Integration Fund and other support and that the Ministries do not accumulate any further delays. I would like to give an example to everyone: we are examining in the Commission a draft law on defibrillators, approved in the House, long awaited by the Italian population, which remains firm for the length of its opinions within the Ministries. This, Mr President, at a time of crisis we cannot Let's have it. For this reason, absolute priorities are for us a national system of tracking, tampons and active surveillance, a national prevention project, territorial medicine and the ESM. We need resources if we are to protect everyone from the arrows that a colleague mentioned earlier. None of us can take responsibility for not having any other resources, let alone you. A final appeal, Mr President: we are doing this with a clear and unambiguous conduct of the State-Regions relationship. We have 21 different health care systems and in such a constitutional framework we have a duty to have a unique management between the State and the Regions, because our citizens must be equal and have equal opportunities throughout the Italian territory. The Italian people have faced wars, famines and social and economic difficulties, which they have always overcome with a cohesive spirit and with the leadership of strong and courageous ruling classes. May history be the master of life this time too. Let us, with the clothes we wear, have a long-term political vision and take the country out of the darkest hour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u91	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u92	Mr President, Professor Conte, you have managed this emergency by using unseen powers and resources in republican history. It has had total freedom of action, to the point of jumping Parliament, as it is doing today, not allowing us to vote on this umpteenth decree of the President of the Council of Ministers - the fifteenth or sixteenth, we do not understand well with annexed shows to unified networks (the last even after the Angelus papale, because it seems fair that there is a proper time). I would remind you, Mr President, that Italy has been in primary surplus for twenty uninterrupted years, i.e. more than what it spends, and continues to increase public debt, which will be increased by EUR 190 billion during this period, of which 100 billion will be due to the last deviation; the previous one, Mr Castellone, we have also voted, putting away the arrows; but that meeting has lasted for nine months and I believe that, at this point, the arrows have automatically freed themselves. So, Mr President, as I said, you have had resources and powers like no one before. Today's situation is absolutely dramatic: Unioncamere estimates that 45,000 companies will be cancelled in the Chamber of Commerce and that at least as many are being eliminated; then, of course, there are the dying ones. With regard to the aid received for the restaurants, the famous restaurants, the research centre of the University of Oxford today estimates that Italy is the worst in Europe compared to those allocated (not paid). You, Mr President, with regard to putting aside the arrows, are the arrows of the 'My experience ends here, with the Count I government: you said so in this House, in front of all of us. She's the 400 billion bazooka, the firepower. You are the one of last time's refreshment, the famous fund, which everyone is still waiting for, because it has not arrived; you are the one of the Integration Fund, which they are still waiting for. The new ristori decree speaks of 100 percent, 200 percent or 400 percent; it goes on to say that it will refresh a whole year, but then it turns out that instead it will refresh 100 percent of the last refreshment, or it refers, as for entertainment venues, to the receipts of the month of April. Anyone who knows how an entertainment venue works knows that in April the winter clubs have already closed and the summer ones have not yet reopened. A kid knows, too. There is no need for that, Mr President. There is no need to put aside the arrows today, colleagues. We need to tell each other things for what they are, because nine months have passed since the outbreak began and unfortunately thousands of people have died. Faced with this, each one of us plays his own role in the face of his own responsibility, in front of his own personal mirror. So we are not talking about bonuses, Mr President, but about the suspension of fixed costs for businesses. The bonus isn't enough. Today we are talking about mid-November. Do we want to bet, Mr President, that nothing will come in mid-November? Do you and I have a bet, Mr. President? Let's bet a coffee: one for me, one for you and one for health care. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments. Recalls of the President]] As far as health care is concerned, say everyone is facing the second wave. It happens, however, that no one has done two and a half months of total lockdown, during the previous wave, I emphasize it. Today there are these two paradigms, Mr President, which we have renamed, on the one hand, containment and, on the other, mitigation. We need to rewrite the dictionary of synonyms and opposites. The containment, to make us understand who listens to us, is the part that the State should do (the one with the capital S), while the mitigation is the suppression of the freedoms of enterprise and movement, the coercion of the commercial activities and all that set of activities that have been the subject of 16 decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, all oriented to the side of the so-called mitigation, that cause economic damage that will be dramatically irreversible. It is therefore clear that it is a bitter medicine, which must be used with great caution and sparingy, only in extreme conditions, such as those of March and April, not today, that nine months have passed, during which we have failed every operation on the other side, that of containment. We have failed the seroprevalence study and the tracing of the Immuni app, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because the Italians, who listen to it live at every DCCM, do not trust you and do not believe in your measures. That's why they don't download the Immuni app; you want to advertise progress, with Fedez and company. The reason they didn't join the seroprevalence study is because they don't trust each other. In recent days, in the Health Commission we have listened to Professor Brusaferro. Today we are again thinking about the need to trace the asymptomatics, because this is the scribe, the Piave line: to find out who has no symptoms and therefore legitimately, in total good faith, turns and conducts a normal daily life. He does not distance himself, because he knows that he is well, and instead infected, as confirmed by Professor Brusaferro no later than yesterday. Today you tell us that at last, after the undersigned (along with so many other people, of course) has reiterated for months the need to do hundreds of thousands of tests, nine months after the outbreak, the government allocates 30 million to make rapid swabs. Here was yesterday's agreement with the general medical doctors, after nine months: it should have been done after nine days, both with the general medical doctors, as well as with free choice pediatricians, pharmacists and districts. All these things had to be done before, not now, and we said so. Mr Unterberger, you have said that there are no proposals from the opposition, but you cannot fail to remember how many times we have spoken in this House; you have voted with me on a joint motion which was intended to take down tampons. Or maybe she didn't read it and she didn't notice? The fact is that even today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - whom I see talking to Mr Sileri, who should understand and know these things, because he is a doctor - there is no protocol; there is widespread inappropriateness, both in hospitalization, in and out, and in home care. There is no protocol for the benefit of health care, general medical doctors and hospitals, which said some points of reference on the treatment for Covid patients; there is not. So, Mr President, the perception of health insecurity that unfortunately takes our fellow citizens to the throats - it is proof of the attitudes that we all censor, but we understand - is now dangerously adding an increasing injustice to it. This is a dangerous feeling. In combination with the perception of health insecurity, that of injustice, which leaks at this moment, can cause serious damage to our civil coexistence. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you call us back and tell us that this is the time to remain truly united. Well, then make it an operation to stay truly united: free us from this government. Do a little rest, as Senator Marcucci said, and find a way to solve some minister who doesn't do his job. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Zaffini. Mr Zaffini (FdI). As in the country there is an old saying that the fish stinks from the head, do this gesture to stay together: get out of the way and give us back some 'normality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u93	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u94	Mr President, I listened carefully to Mr Zaffini's speech and, on the subject of certain issues, I hoped that it would not end in the same way, just to feed some propaganda. It is in the eyes of all what is happening in Europe; I do not quote it as an alibi, but because it is what we are dealing with. We are in the middle of a new, exceptional wave of the pandemic, because the numbers make the wrists tremble. We were invested first, we took drastic measures with lockdown, and now we are in a less serious situation. Perhaps, having taken such harsh measures in the spring, let's face it: everyone thought that the worst had passed for us and that perhaps the second wave - which we knew was coming - would have been less bloody. This does not mean that we have underestimated, because, like everyone around the world, at this stage we have moved forward - even the government has done so - with the response of periodic updates. There will be so many different voices and unfortunately we continue to hear so many different opinions, even from the virologies. If we buy ten newspapers, there are as many interviews of those who criticize the government's measures, those who say that it has done well and those who say that something else needs to be done. From a scientific point of view, we have no absolute certainty. We are therefore faced, once again, with a very complicated and difficult situation. The Government has also, from time to time, taken the measures which you, Mr President, have reminded us of with the final decree of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. I believe that now in this House we should all stop splitting up or finding the culprit, we must not do so. In these days such representations have been made for which one wanted to be fierce against one category compared to another, almost with a punitive intent. The measures were taken to try to slow down the chances of contact. Mr President, today you told us that - as we all know - at this point in the situation we need even more strategic planning, that you can look well at the scenarios that could be presented from here to a few days. That is the fundamental point. Perhaps there have been delays on some things; we know very well that, as we have said several times, for example on the transport front, we have particularly complex cities. It is difficult to compare it with France or Germany, which have a different transport system. Mr President, I would also like to say this to my fellow Members: it is difficult to compare these countries, not least because we have an institutional framework which unfortunately does not help us in this emergency. He spoke to us about the State-Regions Conference and about sharing with the Regions. The next day we witnessed, even in that case, taking distance. This barrel sport is frankly intolerable. We even attended, yesterday, a President of the Region who began to manifest together with the restaurateurs: all legitimate, for goodness sake, but this is also the institutional framework that, in my opinion (but on this we will also have to call everyone to the sense of responsibility), does not allow us to lead that shared strategy that I ask (and that I think everyone asks. Defining it "shared" is not appealing to the good heart; it must be a strategy that makes everyone march in the same way (and it cannot exist that the next day everyone takes the distance). I say this because, Mr President, together with Senator Errani and others who have spoken in recent months, we have repeated several times - and now we have to do this - to strengthen the territorial medical services and also the basic doctors. In fact, it is not that the government did not want to make conventions with the basic doctors; there were, even in that case, very strong closures. On this we are in emergency and there are extraordinary measures to be taken, to which everyone must adapt. This concerns the question of transport, as well as the strengthening of the territorial medical services and the fact that each region, which has many primary competences in this field, must not only assume its responsibilities to the end, but must operate because finally we are all rotten together, united. [[Applause]] I come to the issues that everyone is passionate about, such as city time control plans. They must do so and I say something else without any problems: it is time to parliamentarians, even the responsibilities. Shall we make a table? Very good. Let's make it one where there is no political speculation at last and where everyone takes on their responsibilities. Do you propose to make swabs in a certain way? We are talking about the proposals: very good. Mr President, you must know that if we give Parliament strength in managing the crisis and helping to get out of it, we will all be stronger, provided that we put aside the temptation, perhaps typical of this country, to always finalise everything to political speculation. This epidemic worries me, because it is increasing inequalities in an incredible way. In the square there were the violent, but also many people who are afraid for their future. Mr President, I ask you, like everyone else: that this is our sense of responsibility; we must give answers to all the thousands of precarious people who are afraid, as well as the virus, of not being able to see their future. They don't see him and they don't even know how to live. This is an ethical and moral duty for us. If we stick to this, with an extraordinary emergency programme to intervene on inequalities, we will be able to do it once again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u95	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u96	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe I have heard from your presentation today a political fact which I hope I have understood well and which I therefore consider important. As he said, we found ourselves having to restore closures that obviously cover the containment of the virus, knowing that this pandemic will have an ending that none of us know and that above all will be the real one when there will be the vaccine and when everyone can use it. So no one is able, today, to plan this finale. The positive aspect of your information, which I would like to stress, is this. At the same time, however, we also know that in the first phase we acquired an experience, compared to some knots that are coming to the comb, because we probably were not able to face them. I am thinking, for example, of a typical fact of our institutional, governmental and general culture, of the majorities and minorities that have followed each other in the country: the ability to share the analysis and programming of the time needed to achieve it, step by step. I am starting from this because, of course, we are all concerned - you are more concerned than we are, since you represent and choose, together with Parliament, with your Government, the actions to be taken in the field - than what Senator De Petris said last, namely that people today have a greater concern for their future than they had in the first phase, especially in relation to work, the possibility of life, when and how there will be a reopening. I would like to focus on this. If we have had a lack of planning and capacity to decide that the priorities we put at the centre are intertwined with all the living and working conditions, I would ask you, Mr President, to build up the conditions for the interweaving of interventions and investments, also having the possibility of European funding, from the ESM to the recovery fund. In this way, we can immediately build the conditions by which, when we say that schools and health care are central points, we will know what to do and invest: on territorial medicine; on the possibility of accompanying and distracting schools and teachers from having to take care of the coronavirus, when we could have a doctor who does it (these are important elements); or also, knowing that it is complex, on the possibility of reorganizing, for the teaching and learning of our girls and our boys, of every age and at every stage, conditions that accompany a phase that will have a certain duration (we cannot afford not to see how to do it differently from the traditional one). I am just saying that we are all concerned, when we see conflict between institutional levels and between those who represent them in the speeches in the newspapers and beyond. Let us continue to look at merit, but all together we must know that the condition to avoid as much as possible these conflicts - which will not all be avoidable, especially for those who look more easily to their immediate interest than to the interests of the country - is involvement, to share the choices at this stage. That is the point of politics. In my opinion, it would be better to tackle this phase in an almost more pedagogical way, even by spending more hours on it, but it is crucial to make shared choices, because then we will all have to be put in a position to implement them at every institutional level, in the majority and also with oppositions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u97	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u98	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, Vice-Ministers and Under-Secretarys, ladies and gentlemen, since President Conte has finished his speech with a nice quote from Albert Einstein, I would also like to make one of them, in my opinion equally beautiful: The world is a dangerous place, not for those who do evil deeds, but for those who observe without doing things and for those who do things without knowing how to do them. [[Applause]] We told him from the beginning: in front of a pandemic, in front of a mellifluous monster who has been kneeling the world since March, get help. Do not be overwhelmed by the temptation of man only at command. Don't think, at communicative level, that you can govern a public opinion forever. It is not possible, net of content. Not because we tell him: his majority is telling him. He just said important things. We have listened and have always shared the fact that we can cooperate, but not to have seats, overhangs, seats in the Commission or presidencies of the Commission. That's not what we're interested in, President Conte. [[Applause]] Since March, we have proposed recipes to her, we have given her solutions, we have told her what the stumbling blocks of this pandemic were: and they are still those. You said that maintaining the state of emergency helped the government to govern and manage the crisis. That's not true. If that were the case, if the state of emergency had worked and things had worked out well, what should be charged to those ten kilometers of tails that we saw in front of the emergency room, with emergency medicine now reduced to the shadow of itself? [[Applause]] Between eight - nine hours of tail to make swabs; swabs that, in the end, it is impossible to do privately, in the homes. Unfortunately, the Immuni app didn't work, we have to say it: another wrong investment, a wrong investment on the app, a lack of investment on the trackers, which never existed. Well, if someone wretchedly stumbles into a tracking of the Immuni app, he's forced to stay locked in the house on probation indefinitely because he can't do a tampon privately. Is that how you think the state of emergency worked? You told us in July that you needed special laws to govern Italy, but those didn't help either. Mr President, you have not managed to govern the situation. Why? And please don't make gestasci, it's not urban for you to make gestasci in Parliament; listen carefully and don't make gestures. [[Applause]] Already did it once and I let it pass, this time I correct it with the red and blue pencil. President Conte, health care is really the stumbling block, not of this Government but of the Italians, of all those who are facing a second wave that we were perfectly aware would have arrived. So did you. We've been telling you this since April. We have proposed that you open Covid hospitals every 500,000 inhabitants; we have given you very concrete suggestions; we have given you documents, which I do not know where you have put them and I do not know if you have ever read them. We told you it would be dangerous to combine the Covid emergency with the ordinary flu emergency. Where are the flu vaccines? Does it seem compatible with a state of emergency that has worked that tail of elderly people that we see desperately looking for flu vaccines that are not there? [[Applause]] I'm talking to her very quietly. I'm much calmer than your majority, which has given you very strong signals. In fact, if I may, instead of texting you in the Chamber, write long letters to you in the newspapers, call you; Call us. We are there and we are always available for collaboration. The important thing is that you listen to us. [[Applause]] We talked about school. Colleagues, you are my witnesses: how many times have we all spoken to you about school in Forza Italia, the League and the Brothers of Italy and have we asked you to address the subject of school in a professional way? That's all I'm saying. Too many things we have said and so many other things we will tell you. One image: these days you are delivering the infamous, famous, expensive wheelchairs in closed schools! [[Applause]] Wasn't there any way to use this money differently, maybe to repulse those organic plants of doctors, health workers and nurses you're calling now? Not in June, July, August or September: now you are calling them. You're doing intensive therapy contests now. You call this a state of emergency? Forgive me, I tell you very secularly, but I disagree with this management. We have told you in every way possible and you do not know it today from my words: you know it from all the things we have continued to say to you in these seven months and all of us, as responsible opposition, have a duty to remind you of it. I repeat, you, as a government, have a duty to realize these delays. Why haven't these things been done? Why? What did you expect to do with intensive treatment? It was known that there would be the second wave and now also the third one, but I don't want to repeat myself. You certainly hear the noise of the square, and not of the bad square, that of professional protesters, of disturbers; no, the square of people who are afraid to close so as never to reopen again! The square of the shops, those who did everything in order, who spent money up to 25,000 euros. Think, 51% of the businesses spent up to 25,000 euros - and the remaining over - to secure themselves, hoping for a tax credit of 65 percent (the famous bonus) that due to lack of funds has been reduced to 15 percent of 60 percent, that is to say to 9 percent: a further mockery. You said you didn't want the MES because you had the money: well, why don't you assign them to these bonuses? You can't ask people to settle down and then, after these people do everything as God commands, as a prize you tell them they have to close. Of course they feel betrayed, of course they are in the square: they are right, also because the problem has been addressed by the tail. Mr President, you know that, you have kindly consulted us ten minutes before issuing the DPCM, but I tell you with affection, if by chance you call us five minutes earlier to say that you close Italy we will attack your phone. That's enough! [[Applause.]] Mr President, the DPCM takes the problem from the tail. Why didn't you deflate local public transport? A coordinator of the Technical and Scientific Committee told you this, what you always invoke and evoke, Professor Miozzo, who said that since April he has been telling the President of the Council that he has to tighten up transport. And it is clear that what you have to act on is not the virtuous merchant who has put himself in order, but the means of transport where you are infected because there are "sardini" close to each other - even if masked - that transmit the virus. [[Applause.]] And that applies to buses, subways, couriers, planes where there is no gap. There's less to it than in theaters and the movies. In fact, I will tell you, in the halls of ten cinemas in Rome, in October, I think there were fewer people than in a bus full of rush hour. [[Applause.]] Mr President, please, it is not too late, but we are no longer demagogic about the Italians, about those who are calling you from the square, those protesters whom the Minister of the Interior has called "autonymous." I would like it to be clear that they are "autonomous" to be understood as VAT consignments, not as autonomous contestants, but VAT consignments, not guaranteed, because the Covid is not a level: it divided the world between guaranteed, which still take the salary, the pension or the Cassa Integrazione, and VAT consignments, autonomous, professionals, traders, who take nothing. [[Remembrances of the Presidency]] Excuse me, ma'am, I'll finish right away. I've got one more minute. President Conte, do you know why those gentlemen are in the square? Because inside them, in their protest, there are years and years of sacrifices, of expenses, of bills, of mortgages, of useless bureaucracy, of municipal taxes, provincial, regional, state, with unpronounceable and urticant acronyms. In addition to all this, they have to close now. We do not ask for foolish measures, we do not ask for recklessness; we ask for consistency. We ask you first of all to cooperate, but really to do so; this is what the Democratic Party's leader said. For us - I repeat - to work together means to do things together, not to have gifts or overhangs; it means to share the content of the measures, it means to do as, in our opinion, things must be done to make sure that our country faces this pandemic with better weapons and not with the weapons sprung up that have been proposed at this moment. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I conclude, we had an appointment here last week; I knew he would come back, I knew that the weekend would announce new measures, obviously on television, because you go live Facebook first, then come here in reply, between Marzullo and the Neptune Consortium! All right, but, Mr President, please, stop and go are killing the country. President Berlusconi said this a long time ago: we cannot survive the Covid and then starve to death. All of us in the opposition will prevent it in every possible way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u99	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u100	Mr President, first of all I think it is right - I know that the Senate has already done so this morning, I think and hope not on behalf of one part, but of all - to send a hug to the French people. [[Applause]] , because the attacks and attacks of terrorists in Nice, Avignon and Lyon are being repeated from time to time. We are fighting a viral disease, but in the meantime other types of infection do not stop. So we're all French, no ifs and no buts from this point of view. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is worrying that, at such a serious time for the country, there is no opposition-majority confrontation: you are doing everything. As the social confrontation grows in Italy, we have heard in this House the rejection of it not from the oppositions but from its majority. [[Applause]] , which in such a delicate moment comes to demand a reshuffle of government. I translate from the language of the PD and Mr Marcucci, who asks - and this is alarming - if all its Ministers are up to the situation. Evidently, if there is a question, there is also an answer: it is clear that a minister like Mrs Azzolina is not able to manage the Italian school. [[Applause]] , is unable to give answers to students and teachers. But solve your internal problems at majority meetings. I also tell you that the center right is ready to cooperate, but we do not want and do not care half an armchair. We want to give ideas. [[Applause]] Bicameral commissions, no, we're not interested. The country has already given a clear response, so the distrust of it is not of the Senate, but of the country. We have never heard a magic word, which costs little but gives the dimension of a person, in these months and even today: "sorry". We didn't hear anyone say, "I'm sorry." What have you been doing for six months? As for the work in hospitals, thanks to that genius of Commissioner Arcuri, that you, after the disasters for the masks and for the school appointed to oversee the health of the Italians, do you know when the list of operators will be online to do the work in hospitals? November 2nd. I repeat, November 2nd. Apart from the not particularly happy date, the question is: what did you do in May, June, July, August, September and October, as well as dealing with wheelchairs and scooters? [[Applause]] Why didn't you bother and worry about hospitals? They are stopped from June 400 million euros to buy new buses from Rome to Milan, from Turin to Naples, because there is no signature in a Ministry. 80 billion euros are in the government's coffers. You come today to announce the order of refreshment for November-December, but may I ask you subtly to pay the decrees of July, August, and September, which are still firm because you are unable to pass from words to deeds? [[Applause]] Before you promise more money, pay for what you had to pay. The surreal thing is that a citizen at home thinks that Parliament has been dealing with this health, social, cultural and economic emergency for weeks and months, day and night from Monday to Friday. The day before yesterday the House dealt with homotransphobia; the journalistic debate is occupied by electoral law. You spent a summer dismantling the security decrees and the facts of France tell us that there is a need for more security, no less security. [[Applause]] From June to today there have been 22,000 landings, of which 11,000 from Tunisia, where I do not know that the war has recently broken out. We have heard the proposals, from the friends of Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia, but there is no more deaf than those who do not want to hear, perhaps because they speak another language in this House. As for home care, now, in twenty minutes (finally!) the board of directors of the Italian Agency of the drug (AIFA) meets: the cure for the country is not yet another lockdown, the total closure, that would be the defeat not so much of Conte, of which we are little interested, as of Italy and the Italian economy. We have to do everything we can to avoid another closure, and do what? Going to heal people at their home [[Applause]] , using all the necessary means and therapies, even those that the drug multinationals do not like because they cost too little. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have announced to us that it is a great achievement that tampons at home are the result of an agreement you have made this week. This week? At the end of October? But do you know that, thanks to the fact that you have lost six months of time, intense therapy work will not be done, because, very trivially - just talk to any hospital chief to ascertain it - you can not do the work in mid-November when the hospitals and intensive therapies are full of patients and patients? [[Applause]] Arcuri should resign today! In any normal country, a commissioner who fails resigns, is not promoted! But you, the more unable they are and the more promotes them? It's weird this thing here! Home care and tampons. Then spare us the fact that it is always the fault of others: it is the fault of students, gyms, actors, mayors and governors. If you have not intervened on buses and subways, take your responsibilities! We do not contest the closure of some economic activities, if it serves to save lives, but explain to me that lives are saved, closing gyms, swimming pools, cinemas and theaters that were among the most controlled and safe in the world. [[Applause]] What lives do they save? Simplicity! Another proposal: you have renewed for a few weeks the integration fund. Mr President, the job consultants, tax collectors, lawyers and accountants are asking for this. Today, thanks to your bizarre choices, there are 25 different operating modes to access the integration fund. Simplify the life of the Italians, otherwise make decrees at night that then end up in nothing during the day. I tell those who are following us from home, with enormous patience: of the chatter of the last nine months, 90 percent remained fried air, because 110 implementing decrees are expected for the promises you made to the Italians. [[Applause]] The title isn't enough! Then one is amazed if they protest in Naples, Verona, Rome, Milan, Palermo or Bergamo. They are good people: the imbeciles, the ones with their faces covered, the helmet and the stick in their hands stay at home, because violence is never the answer and it is never the solution [[Applause]] As long as it's not fed by someone who's better off with violent people in the squares. So let's not be surprised that people are asking for answers. There are dozens of tax deadlines not extended by November. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can we at least block these and not postpone them? This is a government based on referrals! Let's rescind the decisions on Alitalia and Motorways for Italy: I remember that the only ones who have gained from the chaos highways are Mr. Benetton, to the face of those who asked for certainty of punishment and law! [[Applause]] Yesterday, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - not six months ago - your quarrelsome majority - Renzi is mad at you, the PD is mad at Renzi, Bonino is mad at the world, at all against everyone that we cannot afford at this time - who supports it - we will see for how long - has rejected an amendment of the oppositions that asked for a normal thing, namely that the State pays its debts to Italian families and businesses. [[Applause]] That is EUR 50 billion in arrears. I repeat, 50 billion! [[Applause]] So, before we morale others, let's look into our home. Let me turn to the last reflection. To err is human to persevere evil, President. In February and March, improvisation could be accepted because it was a first time. It's been seven months and don't tell us now that, in the name of the virus, you close theaters and restaurants and get 5,000 delinquents out of prison who come home. [[Applause]] We've already tried it and it doesn't work. The Italians locked in the house and the delinquents quietly watching his directs on Rai 1! So, we're here, not for the places, which we're not interested in. You and your parliamentarians are asking for cooperation, but it seems to me that the only confrontation you have had over the past nine months has not been with Confindustria or the unions - who complain about it - or with teachers, families and students, but with themselves in front of the mirror. Now is not the time to mirror yourself and tell us how good and beautiful he is. On the aesthetic canon I do not speak, while on the skill a new closure would mean the failure of these six months of nothing on the part of you and the government. We are willing to work to save lives and jobs. I hope no one is willing to work to save himself and his chair, because that is the impression you give us. Good job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u101	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u102	Mr President, we have heard a great deal of words, sometimes even with caution. So we could only remember a few small things. Since there has been a great deal of talk about transport and health, let us remember who are the competences in these areas. I think they're regions, if I recall correctly. [[Applause]] And it seems to me, moreover, that many of these regions are governed by the center-right. So, before we talk about what's being charged to the government, it's better to look at your own home and assume your own responsibilities. Instead of talking about everything that has been said, we come out of this loop with the words that the Supreme poet makes Virgilio say: We do not reason with them, but look and pass. It seems to me to be the Canto III of Hell, where we talk about a group of people who were in the antechamber, as they are not even worthy of being in Hell. We use a word that might be interesting and refers to the illustrious character quoted by the President-in-Office of the Council, who was a physicist: entropy. Based on the second principle of thermodynamics, entropy is a measure of chaos. We see that chaos increases within an isolated system when the temperature increases. So, one thing we need to do to decrease the level of chaos is to cool the system down. [[Applause]] This means acting and reasoning with lucidity and coldness, because politics must take responsibility by using reason, which is not naturally separated from the heart. We have also seen entropy in this House, where it seems to me that there has been some vague chaos. As has been said, the real enemy we are facing is the Covid, which has a not linear but exponential trend. And here we have to be very careful about what we do because when we face the need to penetrate people's health with their freedom we have to remember one thing. Once again I have to quote President Pertini, when he said that there is no freedom without social justice. Since we are in the condition that in order to safeguard the health of people we have had to make a restriction on the level of freedom, we must also increase the level of social justice and in the end it is what has been done with the decree-law published today, in which we address the issue and try to bring back a level of social justice acceptable to people's lives. [[Applause.]] Of course, this has only accentuated a system that already existed. As we all know, the neoliberal system has exasperated inequalities. We saw what happened in the Anglo-Saxon-speaking countries, the United States first. So we are in a pre-existing condition, with an increase in inequalities and we must intervene precisely to combat this enormous level of inequality and make sure that there is a rebalancing between those who have so much and those who have little. So we have to think once again that we have to charge taxes to those who have so much, even if they are foreign companies or even if they are societies that have acquired much more wealth in this period, and therefore try to rebalance to give the people what they need. Senator Bernini said you shouldn't starve; who can disagree? But in order not to starve, we need to figure out what we're talking about. As the President-in-Office of the Council reminded us, in the so-called ristori decree we provided for non-refundable contributions, extension of the Integration Fund, exemption from the payment of social security contributions, rent tax credit, cancellation of the second IMU instalment, measures for entertainment and tourism workers, support funds for some of the most affected sectors, extension of emergency income and so on. However, we are also in a position to see what happens in France and Germany. In France, President Macron announced that tomorrow they will go to lockdown, but one thing they will not do: they will not close schools. As President Conte has told us, education is an indispensable value and therefore we must put the value of education at the centre, understand that we cannot act in closing schools and therefore intervene in relation to some parts of the state apparatus that think that closing schools is a solution when it is not, because we must safeguard the psychic integrity - mainly - and empathic of children. It therefore seems to me that it is not correct to close elementary schools. Finally, the speech is very simple; we can do all the things we want, even with the opposition if it is willing to debate, but we cannot accept that the work and the figure of the President-in-Office of the Council, who has managed an incredible situation, for positions that go nowhere. [[Applause.]] Senator Salvini said he doesn't want to have half an armchair; maybe he wants to have a whole one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u103	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness. I'm suspending work. (The sitting was suspended at 2.53 p.m. and resumed at 15.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u104	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator De Carlo has the right to explain question 3-02030 on the prejudices to the agri-food sector caused by recent government measures, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u105	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know that you are not a fairy and you cannot have the magic wand to solve with one touch all the problems of agriculture that are obviously before the crisis of the Covid. We can say, however, that she was a little shy in dealing with the many open issues. With regard to the nutri-score, for example, had it not been the Fratelli d'Italia Group that raised the problem in the Chamber, after having done so with traffic lights or with the question of pesticides, the attempt of the countries of the North and the large multinationals to discriminate against our national products such as wheat and ham would have passed almost under trace. What we are witnessing, Minister, is a real attack on our productions, whose recognized high quality constitutes for our competitors on the market precisely the reason to keep them under attack. Our agriculture is also under attack by a certain environmentalism, when Italian agriculture is the greenest in Europe. Definitely improved but not demonizable. We can tell you that it has certainly not addressed and solved the problem of the prices of agricultural products that we find on the shelves of large retailers at prices even lower than production costs. It is time to work, Minister, for a guaranteed minimum price that gives dignity not only to workers, but also to entrepreneurs. Furthermore, Minister, I would remind you of unfair competition, Italian soiling, European trade agreements that do not protect the Italian product while we have been asking for a long time for civilization duties to be imposed on those goods which come from those countries where wage standards, safety at work and environmental protection are not met. It is Italian agriculture that pays the highest price of these agreements. It is in this context, already fragile and complicated, that the Government of which you are a member has responded with the closure of many activities that are a natural outlet for many agricultural operators. In fact, Minister, the premises that the Government has closed are only the tip of the iceberg of the entire supply chain, which had already been severely put in trouble in the first way, in which you and your Government have given more ideological answers than concrete, more of a facade than substantial. We ask you, therefore, if you have the confidence that this crisis will pay you the entire chain, with estimates that the trade associations have already made, but even if you do not consider useless and lacking scientific evidence a DCCM that gives the blow of grace to many economic realities that today constitute the ambassadors of Made in Italy, the Italian excellence in the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u106	Mr President, as Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, I have been committed to defending, supporting and promoting, at national and European level, the Italian agri-food heritage in all its forms. It was and continues to be my main objective. I do not think that my attention and awareness of the exacerbation of the health emergency and the serious repercussions to the detriment of the production and employment system cannot be called into question. It is among the reasons why it continues uninterrupted, even in these days, the comparison with industry associations and the entire institutional chain to have constantly updated data on the repercussions of the spread of the Covid-19 on our sector. It is no coincidence that Ismea surveys appear among those indicated by the interrogators. This awareness has prompted me to work with the strength to obtain the appropriations needed to mitigate and, if possible, anticipate the consequences of a crisis that, if not properly governed, risks causing economic and social fractures that are difficult to recompose. The dialectic within the Government is known; so my position, aimed at finding balance and balance between health needs and those of an economic nature. But here today it is important to return the work in progress and the measures of merit aimed at the agri-food supply chain. From this point of view, it should be remembered that this year we have allocated some EUR 4 billion to the agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sectors. Unimaginable figures before, but which are now essential to guarantee liquidity and support to companies that, with great sacrifice, are adapting to the stringent containment measures. Among the many measures taken, I would like to point out the decree implementing the catering bonus, with which we allocate 600 million euros of immediate aid to the catering activities that have purchased Italian agricultural and agri-food products. An important provision for the channel ho.re.ca, which I consider strategic sector of our economy and an integral part of the agri-food supply chain. I come to the last point. In the decree-ristori law, published today in the Official Journal, we assure for the month of November the contributory, social security and welfare exemption for employers in the agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sectors, professional agricultural entrepreneurs, direct farmers, sharecroppers and settlers. This measure, which is worth over 350 million euros, is accompanied by the creation of a fund of 100 million euros to support, with grants, those agri-food companies most involved by the restrictions of ho.re.ca. I do not hide how difficult and complex the work to be done is, all the more so because I am absolutely convinced that protecting the health and safeguarding of employment and the income of workers, workers and businesses must go hand in hand. For this reason, too, I consider the contribution of those who, among the oppositions, want to help improve the measures in a fair, effective and virtuous confrontation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Carlo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u107	Mr Minister, I am not satisfied with your reply, and not just because your phrase 'could not be called into question' is absolutely out of place. In fact, this is the place where the policies that a minister implements are called into question. This is the theme and the core of democracy. I would like to re-read what you yourself stated in the newspapers, in the newspaper "La Stampa": Saturday I said all day that the closing of restaurants at 6 p.m. was wrong. He goes on to say: The same Scientific and Technical Committee would have raised doubts as to the usefulness of the closure. Those who have made efforts to settle should not feel betrayed. But the reality, Minister, is that this game of the good policeman (she) and the bad policeman (Count) have all understood it; we understand how instrumental it is to try to maintain the vision of the government and the vision of an internal minority in the same perimeter, that of its majority. No, Minister, it doesn't work anymore. You are organic to this Government now, just as it was when, using agriculture, you perorò and obtained sanatoria for migrants. A sanatoria certainly in line with his thought and his path, but certainly not useful, as has been shown, to the resolution of the problems of agriculture, which demanded all vouchers and green corridors. Today, the Government's proposal, sold as the panacea of all evils, is a refreshment. Restorations to make up for your mistake, that of closures without scientific evidence that proves its usefulness. This error has specific responsibility: you, in fact. Lately you owe Italians today to remedy your mistake; the State forces to close those who by law have undertaken to adapt the premises and to respect the laws and protocols. But a state that by decree reduces or cancels the revenues of an enterprise, to be serious and concrete, must intervene on fixed costs: rents, employees, mortgages, utilities and taxes. There are no bonuses and refreshments they hold, also because you were talking about a refund of 100, 150 or 200 percent of the decrease in turnover. Instead we all woke up with a bonus of 100, 150 or 200 percent of the bonus provided by the I raise decree. You force thousands of companies to close by decree. Then, Minister, they will soon count your words of distinction. And if your words are full in the Government and we will remain until it makes sense for the quality of the policies that are put in place, Mr Minister, of the two: either you have used this phrase to mock farmers and Italians once again or you are still in this Government because you share the line. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u108	Senator Vono has the right to explain the question 3-02033 on the gathering of people in local public transport for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u109	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that the sudden rise in the contagion curve from Covid-19, which has led to the adoption of the latest decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, cannot fail to give more thought to the health and economic conditions in which the whole transport sector, particularly the local public transport sector, is currently operating, and to the guarantees of safety for users. After the resumption of school activities, there have been large gatherings, especially in large cities, and not only in peak hours. At the metro and bus stops - despite the technical data of the technical and scientific committee and the reassuring positions in the area of local public transport, which recall a reduction in the percentage of passengers emphasizing the small time of stay within some means of transport - the episodes of crowding are still very worrying. We in Italy Viva-PSI believe it is essential, for effective action to counter the exponential increase in contagions, not mere guidelines to follow a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, but a specific plan for the reorganization of the entire transport network throughout the national territory, which takes into account the differences that pertain to the various modes of transport and the means. Considering that you, in the tables called to the Ministry, confirmed the decision to maintain the maximum level of 80% capacity reachable within the means of transport, that some Regions like Tuscany have implemented more stringent measures than those put in place by the Government, besides having increased the additional transport services and in the light of the worsening of the epidemiological situation, it is evident that these measures are essentially to be reviewed and strengthened, but above all to be shared. All said, we ask to know what are the next orientations of his ministry regarding the problems described in premise and, if he has knowledge of it, the motivations that have determined the worsening of the situation of criticality in which the transport system is placed. We also ask you to know what further measures are planned and the choices you will want to implement, I hope that you will share not only with Parliament and the relevant Commissions, but also with the local authorities and representatives of the sector, in order to overcome this uncertain situation, which involves the means and networks of public transport and which risks not only harming the citizens' right to benefit from transport services with good quality, but also to cause strong concerns about the correct protection of the health of the citizens themselves and the maintenance of the country system as a whole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u110	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as clearly stated in the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the regulation and planning of the local public transport service, even if it is not scheduled, in such a way as to avoid overcrowding of the means in the time slots of the day when users are most present, are the regions under Title V of the Constitution, in line with the forecasts set out in Article 32 of Law No 833 of 1978. Despite this, we have shared, always together with all the Regions, the content of the current guidelines, defined on the basis of the analysis of the punctual flows of the demand for transport elaborated from the Inail and object of specific sharing with the technical-scientific committee, as from request of the same Regions, and with the owners of the local public transport services and responsible for the supply of the dedicated school transport services. A sharing path, therefore, with regions and local authorities. In the course of the monitoring meeting, the Regions, the Provinces and the Municipalities have evidenced to have provided to increase the means for the routes with greater demand, utilizing 120 of the 300 million euros made available from the Government with decree n. 111 of 2020, that they have allowed the use of 2000 means of transport additional private, and to increase the controls from the staff on the docks and in the areas of rest of the means, guaranteeing the intervention as a result of punctual and not generic indications of criticality. No region has asked in the appropriate and formal fora to carry out a revision of the guidelines, in the sense of allowing a lower percentage of filling than the current one. As a government, we are always willing to receive contributions for the improvement of guidelines, both because of the progress of the spread of the virus and on the basis of the indications coming from the scientific community. I represent, however, that the data of use of the buses that have provided us the Regions, that have been recorded since last month of September, are at least 50 percent (with a reduction, therefore, of 50 percent) regarding the same period of 2019, a reduction that is usually respected also during the morning and afternoon peak hours; and that the maximum percentage of filling of 80 percent would therefore allow to satisfy the entire demand for local public transport for work and for school. Moreover, in these days we are monitoring all the technological systems, tested and tested by the Regions, to evaluate to implement further, with the use of technology, precisely the systems of control and monitoring of the filling. I believe that, thanks to the effective collaboration of all the actors involved, the Regions, the transport companies and the users, and through the strict observance of the current guidelines, which also indicate specific activities and rules of conduct, at the expense of both the users and the transport companies, the mobility of the citizens must remain guaranteed as a right in order to reach the places of work and study.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u112	I give the floor to Senator Vono to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u113	Minister, I take note of what you said in your reply, but I do not pretend not to understand the attempt to distribute, in a very subtle way, the blame a little 'between the Government and the Regions, while claiming to share the measures adopted with the Regions. I understand, however, that huge resources have been allocated and I hope that these should be properly addressed and allocated, including by increasing controls. In fact, it is useless to deny that the contagions have increased perhaps precisely because of a lack of adequacy of controls with regard, in particular, to transport. Given that all operators in the transport sector need appropriate economic measures, I do not think it is necessary to dwell solely on the guidelines. On the other hand, it is necessary for the Government to adopt, as I said earlier, a concrete plan, covering all the national transport service and not just the local one. Thank you and, like Italy Viva-PSI, we remain willing to cooperate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u114	Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-02025 on strengthening measures and development plans for local public transport, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u115	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard some of the Minister's answers, but I repeat some of the issues here. It is obvious to everyone that there will be guidelines, but the problem is there. It has proved to be absolutely clear to us and was one of the most critical issues that emerged in this second phase of the pandemic. Evidently, even the 80% capacity ratio was perhaps a somewhat optimistic idea of the local public transport situation. The government, as the Minister knows perfectly well because it has confirmed it here, in the decree-law August had authorized the expenditure of 150 million for the school transport service and of 400 million precisely to increase the resources of the fund for the local public transport, of which 300 could be used for the additional services of transport destined also to students. Maybe they were not enough, but they were certainly resources allocated to counter the emergency on the transport front. We know perfectly well that competence is regional, but, as far as we are concerned, we want to know how much of these resources has actually been used; how much has been allocated to additional transport, because as simple users - especially in large cities - we have continued to see problems, suffering and conflicts, and no one can explain to us that these have not accelerated the contagion as well. It is so obvious that I think there is nothing else to say. We also ask you in your question, Minister, if, in addition to the funds allocated for the emergency, the Government intends - we have already asked Count - to implement an additional emergency programme with other measures, because we must certainly ensure mobility and deal with the situations that have arisen. This is also the prelude to a general strengthening, with a serious plan - on which you will certainly be working to find not indifferent resources - of the public transport system in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u116	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u117	Mr President, I would like to make a few points on time. Even if I can do it in the right direction, for political reasons, it is not my intention - and it will never be - to dump responsibility on someone else, despite the law's predictions. The very tiring process that this Government is carrying out to face the pandemic or is facing together or simply not facing. This was the spirit that marked our institutional activity towards the Regions, which for the most part have different majorities from that of this Government, but with which collaboration has always been based on the utmost professionalism, making available to each other all the competences of the Ministry and of the Regions themselves. I believe that, at such a difficult time, this is the only way to work in the face of the great difficulties and the great criticalities that citizens are asking us to intervene in. The second point: I have just sent to the Senate and Chamber Transport Commissions, dear Senator De Petris, international scientific research (French, German, American) on the verification of how the virus can or cannot be transmitted within the means of transport. These analyses concern all means of transport (airplanes, buses, trains), and there are very interesting indications because they are analyses done on countries that have decided to keep capacity at 100% and where no measures have been taken, unlike Italy - the only country that has adopted guidelines - with the exception of the obligation to wear the mask. I believe that the results of those analyses - which you will have the opportunity to see in a few minutes' time - are particularly interesting, I will discuss them in the course of the debate with the Commissions meeting at 4:30 p.m. Moreover, with regard to resources, Senator De Petris, the August Decree-Law, as you said, provided for the immediate use - out of the 300 million allocated - of 150 million, of which to date 120 million have been used. The other million are currently being examined by the Unified Conference for the formalization of the understanding on distribution mechanisms that, at the end of the day, will allow the Regions, therefore, to use the plafond made available by the Government of 300 million. In particular, that draft decree provides that the only definitive criterion for the allocation of resources allocated to additional services, therefore to the rental of coaches that can be put on line, is that already foreseen by law, i.e. that the services implemented have a filling of more than 80%. Moreover, it has been foreseen that the Regions will communicate to MIT by November 15 the data related to the additional services already rendered and those that will be programmed from here to the end of the year, also in order to allow us to program the resources for 2021. Therefore, only after the date of 15 November will I be able to inform Parliament for each region of the use of these resources. As a government, we have made available a number of instruments, which already allow, in this emergency phase, to implement, in line with the European Commission's guidelines, the offers of TPL and to reduce the use of private cars. In addition to the resources we have already talked about, which essentially intervene on about 4,000 routes, we have also introduced simplified procedures for the custody of tenders - it is article 1 of the decree-simplification law, which you know by heart - and I encourage the use of non-scheduled means of transport, i.e. taxis and NCCs, with a rule that finances the voucher in the decree-laundering law. Moreover, since we settled, we have distributed 3 billion, between Regions and cities, to allow two major operations that we will refinance for the next few years, that is, the strengthening of the projects of rapid transport of mass, on which the cities already had mature plans in terms of progress, and 2.2 billion for the substitution of the buses in order to transform our fleet bus city in a fleet environmentally sustainable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u118	Mr President, I thank the Minister. Obviously we will look forward to 15 November to understand exactly the level of use by the Regions of the resources made available by the Government and Parliament. But I would like to say something very clear, Minister. I will verify this scientific research, but we already had a level of suffering not indifferent, and you know it perfectly well: in time of peace we were already in great suffering in the big cities. I'm from Rome and we can arrange a trip together, if you like, so we can see some buses and the conditions in which they are. Maybe one doesn't take the coronavirus, but you can take something else. Then there is the problem of crowding the subways that you know perfectly well, so much so that we had also discussed metro C with you. So, we have a level of suffering in cities that in time of peace was already remarkable. Today to think that with that system there has been no spread of the contagion within the means of transport, frankly... We also read today in the newspapers that there are miraculous drugs, but objectively things are a little different. On the other hand, I believe that we absolutely need to strengthen the action for an extraordinary action plan, knowing that sooner or later we will be back in peace, so all the more so we need to work on a three-year plan to strengthen the local public transport system. We'll have health problems later, maybe not on issues related to Covid, but on the health of our lungs. That is the priority and we will also work together to get the funds from the recovery fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u119	Senator D'Arienzo has the right to explain the question 3-02034 on measures to support the local public transport sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u120	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness. The occasion, in the most representative place of our country of democracy and Italians, is to use words of truth; in part, it has already referred to it. For us in the Democratic Party, public transport is a sensitive issue and has a significant social value. It is the reason why we shared the choice not to stop local public transport even in the period of lockdown: it cost a lot and it is a choice that we have shared and supported, because convinced of the benefits it gives the community and that it is a right that Italy must always guarantee. In any case, we have also shared the fact that, although local public transport and school transport are not the responsibility of the State - I do not say this out of controversy, because this is the truth - the State has taken responsibility to finance not only the losses of revenues and the reimbursement of tickets and subscriptions, but also the additional services, to ensure that there was not that overcrowding that everyone denounces and that, however, we think of the capacity of 80%, are the result of choices and analysis made by the technical-scientific committee on 26 August. We are well aware of how things have been carried out: the decree relaunched, with resources for 500 million euros, the decree August, with 400 million euros, and the decree of early September, with the decision to finance the additional services of local public transport and school transport. However, we note that something did not work, because in some regions we left immediately, but in others, like the beautiful Veneto, for example, we left on 26 October. What really didn't work? I do not want to throw the cross at anyone: surely there have been problems, but we are here to solve them and not to make controversy. What happened? Why did these additional services start late? We also think that resources should still be invested in local public transport, which will also suffer because of the latest DCCM. We are therefore asking whether additional funding is planned, compared with EUR 900 million, which has already been invested in this area. This is the information we need, to continue to guarantee this service and to ensure that any controversy stops, because we do not need it at the moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u121	Mr President, I will not repeat the detail of the progress of the Government's interventions in support of local public transport, already perfectly mentioned by Senator D'Arienzo. First of all, as it should be acknowledged, we start from the assumption of a highly differentiated local public transport system, with different levels of efficiency, which are often different within the regions themselves, between extra-urban and urban transport, between rail and road transport modes, between cities equipped with metropolitan systems and particularly efficient tram systems on the environmental front, but still not fully equipped with means, because they are being implemented. Therefore, the pandemic happens at a time when the Government was supporting Regions and Municipalities, as I described in the previous response to Senator De Petris, precisely to strengthen the whole system and to try to ensure a homogeneity, both between Regions and at intra-regional level. Think, for example, of the great activity carried out to replace and expand the number of new regional trains, which is in a very differentiated state of progress between Region and Region and this is the son of issues related to the history of each individual territory. The other fundamental point to remember is that, compared to this second total reopening of the most important activities of our country, with the addition of the school, the calculation of the flows, that we have analyzed with the Inail, practically from April onwards, told us that, from a total of 30 million daily users of the local public transport, we would have on the means a load around 21 or 22 million, because there has already been a natural reduction, tied to the themes of the Covid and to a little'smart working, remained in the field also during the summer period. To date the Regions and the companies owned by the Regions tell us that, overall, we have reached 50% in this last week. Since Monday we have an indication of around 50 percent and therefore about 15 million people. Of course, in terms of planning the use of the funds, we have always allocated resources in agreement with the Regions: everything I am referring to in this House today and which I reported to the Joint Commissions this morning is the result of an agreement, which was also recorded at the Unified Conference on 31 August. But it is quite clear that in some areas of the country it has been more difficult to map needs, because there is a need, at peak times, radically different from the rest of the day. For this reason, in addition to all the resources we have allocated, we have strongly asked both at national level, and local institutions to activate Moral Suasion tables as powerful as possible to continue to guarantee what has been happening in the months of May, June and July of this year, namely the staggering of the times of entry and exit, first of all from work, and - then - also from school, especially the higher one. This is obviously a much more powerful and faster method than all other resource usage expectations. In some cases it has happened, while in others it has not. I will conclude on the issue of infection. I don't have medical and health expertise, as many of us imagine, but in recent months, given the pandemic, we've all had to deal with the issue of Covid. The studies to which we refer do not say that there are places of transport or work with zero contagion. I would never presume to say it, and if I read a study of this kind, I wouldn't believe it because I think I have a discreet realism to not believe. However, if there are mechanisms of protection and organization of the presence of people on the means of transport, having local public transport the great advantage of a short stay of the users, if you manage to organize this stay you will result a less impact than the perception of a person leads to believe. I say this not because the issue is not to be addressed - indeed, it is absolutely essential to address it - but the quotation from these studies is important to me because it is the scientific justification for the reasons why we have decided to allow people to exercise the right to mobility, even if with little resources (not everyone can buy the car). We have decided to guarantee the right to mobility by protecting these people and starting from the scientific assumptions that tell us: mask, ventilation, very fast replacement of people in the area and analysis of media filtering systems that have a lower level of ventilation. In any case, I believe that subsequent questions will allow further integration of the answer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Arienzo has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u122	Minister, thank you because today in this House, the most authoritative in the country, words of truth have been said. And I'm not saying that out of controversy. We have clearly acquired the fact that choices on capacity are the result of analysis and have a scientific basis. We understood that all the regions (which are very plural) were in agreement and that the additional funds guaranteed the operation of the service, continuity, reimbursement of subscriptions and the ability to face the reduction of revenues. We understood that the funds for additional services were ready since 8 September. Yet, citizens will be able to assess, within the context of the realities where they live, when additional services of non-state competence have started. The citizens who have followed the debate today will be able to judge. It's not our job to do the polemics. We will continue to work because local public transport is a cultural issue for us, but it is good that the truth is always the main road to follow and the best choice because Italy deserves it, even more at a time of difficulty like the current one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u123	Senator Mallegni has the right to explain the question 3-02031 on capacity limitations in means of transport and on the increase of the offer to users, for three minutes. I invite everyone to respect the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u124	Mr President, we will respect them as the Minister has respected them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u125	Senator Mallegni, I'm sorry to make this invitation now that it's your turn.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u126	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). I'm used to it. When it's my turn, someone calls me back first. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't say that. I'm just saying this because there's live TV. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Let me at least make up for the time used for the jokes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Mallegni. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Minister, you know that I am always extremely cooperative and that Forza Italia always puts itself as a method in a collaborative way and, even if on positions other than the Government, always in the general interest of the country. But I must tell you that, well in advance, you told us that the school would start on September 14th; it is more or less like remembering that December 25th is Christmas. So, somehow, you had to predict that 9 million people would be on the move, as you recalled this morning in the beginning of your speech in the House IX and 8th Senate Commissions. I understand that it's funny, now that we're mostly in the Regions, to blame it on us. That's all I need! I must tell you, however, with the utmost frankness, that when the fault is of the Regions, it is of the Regions; when we do the DPCM, like that of 24 October, with the Regions opposed, with the Conference of the Regions sending a three-page spiegeon saying that they do not agree with the Government on the measures that would have been recently taken, the Government does not give it importance, it goes on, it takes its responsibilities and continues straight on. So, the fact that the Regions agree doesn't tangle you when you have different ideas. It is true that 300 million have been allocated to local public transport (TPL), but - allow me - 120 million, which were the first spent, as you told us in the Commission this morning, have all gone to public companies. Forza Italia believes that the Government and, probably, the Ministry that you chair are particularly hostage to the system of public administration. We understand, you are on that side, you defend it, but there are companies that have buses in the parking lot and have not yet seen a euro of refreshment for leasing to be paid. I would point out to you that Flixbus, which invoicing more than 500 million, in Italy does not pay taxes and the decree that was previously approved gives that company the opportunity and the possibility to take money; so it takes money and we obviously leave our companies dry. As far as the problem of tourist buses is concerned, we have dealt with it badly and in the wrong terms. It was said earlier that 2,000 buses were put into service. Let me tell you something: a table in your ministry, which I have in my possession, fresh this morning, says that just over 1,000 buses have been put into service. I can't tell you who sent it to me, but believe me, and you know I'm not making fun of you. It has been said that tourist buses are large and cannot pass through the streets. I would point out to you that more than 45 percent of those buses are less than seven metres away. As for the school buses, the mayors were left alone and with the game of the three cards some governor also enjoyed participating in the demonstration against the government; see the example of Tuscany a few days ago in the square. Today the President of the Council asks us why there is no confidence in the relationship with Italians. How do you do that? We had six months to try to develop a series of measures and we discover that 14 September begins school and 25 December is Christmas. Believe me: the families are well disposed, but at some point, when they see on the other side an ignorance and - I don't know why - probably an inability, I don't think bad will, obviously the problem cannot be solved. I will end by making a joke to you too, who is the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. The government solved the matter. Do you know how he did it? He said that 75 percent of high school kids have to stay home, and because the problem comes from there, at this point we have also solved the problem of local public transport. But now someone will say that the percentage falls to 50%; we will see that according to the numbers it will no longer be necessary to have new buses in service and, consequently, once again the tourist buses will stay in the parking lot. From the decree refreshment lacks the codes Ateco for many enterprises, among which these, and therefore, again this time, the money will not arrive. Today I heard harsher words than what I have just said by its majority. As a result, we really want to know what the formal point of view is. He will tell us later in the Commission, but I will take advantage of his speech in this House today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u127	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u128	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Mallegni, to whom I repeat what I said in my reply to my fellow Members. In my replies and in my report this morning at the hearing of the Commissions which you took part in, there has never been, there will not be, there does not want to be, nor do I need any discharge of responsibility on others. When we make decisions together, who plays a role and brings this honour and this temporary burden also assumes the responsibility of others, without whether or not. Since everything that has been done so far (positive and negative things) has been shared with the Regions, regardless of the political color, and in the institutional fora, I will continue to go on like this, because it is the only way I am able to do the Minister; there is no other way. First the institutions come, then the people who temporarily play an institutional role come. I have also read some distinctions, which have been made in the last few minutes, by some regional councillors. I regret that, because casually, at the last meeting last week, the same people said exactly opposite things. But it doesn't matter, Senator. It matters what we say and do for the citizens. If this debate today - because we are going to talk about local public transport all day - will help me and the regions find even a little more solution to lighten the feeling of concern that has been generated in those who use local public transport, it will have been useful. And I think it will be. Second question: the 120 million euros to the transport companies owned by the Regions have been used to do the competitions of the private ones; therefore, these resources will go to the private ones, whether they have in their availability means of transport or smaller buses, that therefore they will be able to circulate also for urban transport - only those of smaller dimensions can in fact circulate - whether they manage larger tourist buses - like the last 350 buses taken from Emilia-Romagna - that instead will play a role in the field of extra-urban transport. The data you reported, Senator, from which it would appear that the buses would be 1,000 and not 2,000, refer to the monitoring of October 8th; my monitoring, which reports the figure of 2,000, is the day before yesterday, Tuesday. Anyway, I plan to provide this afternoon to the Commissions the detailed list of the number of buses that we have been provided for each Region. With regard to the reopenings of 14 September, the work carried out by the Government of preparation for the resumption of the school has its roots in April. The fact that the agreement with the Regions was concluded only at the end of August is not determined either by the lack of political will of the Regions, nor by the lack of political will on the part of the Government: it is determined by the need for a series of scientific insights, because we wanted to complete the health guidelines and have the maximum possible certainty, with the conditions given of knowledge of the virus, to be made available to users, that is, to people who take the means every day.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u129	Senator Mallegni may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u130	Minister, you know that I never question your good faith, but I must ask you to oppose it a little more. I understand and know the internal problems of the Government and the majority: oppose a little more. He will find help and support from all over Parliament, including us, in the general interest of the community. Let him compare more often - as I have also told his colleagues - with Parliament and not as the President-in-Office of the Council, who considers this place to be almost a mandatory, in some way annoying, harp, being forced to speak with us. The regions are important, but they do one job, while Parliament does another. Parliament is the cause of the government. We are people who live every day the territory, many of us are entrepreneurs - I particularly in tourism - and maybe we could propose something. With regard to the issue of competitions, Minister, in April, with the problem of the beginning of school, they should have been planned immediately and skipped, as provided for in the simplification decree that you reminded us this morning. Finally, on scientific deepening, we do not hide behind the indications of the technical-scientific committee, which does its job and many times gives indications that the government ultimately follows upside down. We are in danger of not sinking our roots in study and deepening; we are in danger, Minister, of sinking. That's the problem. We don't care if the government sinks, which is obvious to everyone that sooner or later - even waiting too long - it will sink. The problem is that the country is sinking and we absolutely cannot afford it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u131	Senator Pergreffi has the right to explain the question 3-02032 on the activation of additional local public transport services, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u132	Mr President, one of the sectors most affected by the economic crisis, following the Covid health crisis, is that of mass transport. In particular, local public transport companies have suffered losses of more than €1.2 billion. In article 1, paragraph 1, of the decree-law 8 September 2020, n. 111, the Government has established a coefficient of filling the means not exceeding 80% of the places allowed; limit last confirmed also by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 24 October 2020, when we were already in emergency, because with this last decree many activities have been closed. With the decree-law relaunch has been established a fund to compensate for the lower revenues deriving both from the lack of use of public transport by the users, and from the burdens deriving from the obligation to issue vouchers or extend the subscriptions to the users of the public service during the period not taken advantage of the lockdown. The allocation of this fund, which initially amounted to EUR 500 million, was increased by an additional EUR 400 million with a special rule contained in the August Decree. A share of the above-mentioned relief fund, amounting to EUR 300 million, can be used for the financing of additional services provided to entities other than service providers, to be allocated to services that during the ante-Covid period had a coverage of more than 80% of the capacity of the means. According to the data in our possession, of the 300 million allocated for additional services, at the moment only 120 have been used to finance - given today confirmed by you - 4,000 additional races per day, concentrated in the high density guidelines and in the large metropolitan areas; this is because the norm previews the adoption of a decree of partecipation of such resources that at the moment is not issued. The Regions, therefore, have had the activation of the additional services, without prejudice to the constraint of use of the resources for the services that in the period ante-Covid have had an 80% filling. These measures, therefore, have been blocked. All measures, however, have proved ineffective for the reduction of overcrowding of the means and for the spread of the contagion. It is also true that there are no studies that tell us that the spread of infection takes place within public transport, but I think it is in everyone's eyes because, at the very moment when we close bars, restaurants and other activities such as gyms, I do not see why in public transport we can not infect ourselves. [[Applause]] We therefore ask the Minister what action he intends to take from now on and to act as a matter of urgency. We cannot wait - as he said before - on 15 November. We're in emergency. Let us move forward quickly on everything that concerns additional services to public transport and perhaps also think about the coefficient of 80% filling the means. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u133	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u134	Mr President, I would remind the Senator that, in June, a letter was written to me and to other members of the Government by some regions - Liguria, Piedmont and Lombardy - precisely in view of the imminent reopening of the schools which would then take place on 14 September, in which it was requested that the filling of public transport be ensured at 100%. We stayed, until the DCCM of September 8, with a possibility of filling the local public transport means of 50%, because those were the flows. This request has not been escaped, of course, because - also thanking the availability of those same Regions and all the others - we found, together with the technical-scientific committee, the possibility to give an answer to the needs without reaching the total filling of the means, with the authorization to fill to 80% and with a whole series of sanitary measures that characterize specifically only the local public transport. In addition, in 2020 we allocated 900 million more, in addition to those already owned by the Regions for local public transport, to ensure the least ticketing, i.e. the coverage of the vast majority of the lower revenues. We have reached a unanimous agreement not only on the guidelines, but also on the use and criteria of 300 million. And here I am speaking, Mrs Senator; 150 million of these 300 are automatically allocated and do not need any administrative allocation. 120 have already been used to implement, with everything the companies have thought necessary, the rubber races. It will not escape any of the present that the rides on the train or otherwise on the metro are not so easily implemented; you can get to a maximum of the capacity of the frequency, but you can not go to a car lounge to buy a train. So much so that we have many regions that have in order the renewal of the means, but with terms of twelve, thirteen and eighteen months. Having said that, the other 150 million - to which perhaps he referred with his quote related to the distribution to the Regions - with the decree of the Minister are already at the attention of the Conference, of which we are waiting for the opinion. The proposal we made at the Conference is to distribute them with the same criteria as the previous 150 million, giving them to the lines that before the Covid already had a transport stress. If we need to upgrade routes, urban or extra-urban, it is good to focus on the routes that have already been stressed, because they have an important number of passengers and people. One last thing I forgot to say in my answers: after several months of experimentation we asked some public transport companies in various parts of Italy, some technological applications have come to definition that may be useful to improve the quality of the service. That is why tomorrow there will be a meeting of a technical table that I have set up, in the presence of Minister Pisano and the offices of the Minister for technological innovation and digitalization, to make a technical evaluation on which are the trials gone better and possibly make them available to all the regions and the local public transport companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u135	I give the floor to Senator Romeo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u136	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers, but they did not satisfy us at all. I am not just referring to our question; even the answers you gave to all the other questions from the other groups did not satisfy us. [[Applause]] Operation truth: only on September 8th, with Decree-Law No 111 of September 8th, 2020, you put 300 million in the field for additional services. A week before the beginning of schools: in the face of programming! [[Applause]] Of these 300 million, only 150 were immediately available (50 per cent), with distribution criteria made with the decree relaunch. For the other 150, the distribution decree has yet to be made, as you said to the attention of the State-Regions Conference. It's October 28th. Forgive me, Minister, but it's a little late. This is also right to recognize him. [[Applause]] Just as it is right to acknowledge the fact that 300 million, out of 105 billion used in deviation to deal with the emergency, are a little few for 20 regions; let me honestly say so. [[Applause]] We don't play the game that the regions have spent only 120 out of 300. No; they spent 120 out of 150, which is not a small percentage, because I remember that the other 150 have not yet been allocated. [[Applause]] Quickly I begin to conclude. There are also constraints on the use of these resources in additional services. Article 1 also stipulates that these resources may be used where the above-mentioned services in the ante-Covid period have been filled by more than 80% of the capacity. Therefore the Regions could not use them to do who knows what types of services; you know that the tourist buses can be used not in the urban lines, but only in the extra-urban lines. The DPCM with the 80 percent fill rule you wrote it and you signed it. It is you who have not been able to guarantee the distancement on public transport. [[Applause]] You could have made a DPCM even not in agreement with the Regions, since you just did it on October 24th. Finally, Minister, no answer has yet been given to a question that the League submitted on 10 June 2020, Question 4-03642, addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Tell that to Minister Gualtieri. Four hundred million are blocked for the purchase of new buses for urban areas, the most dense ones - we are talking about cities like Milan, Turin, Rome and so on - because Minister Gualtieri has not yet signed. [[Applause]] It's been four months. To close, Minister, more than continue to download to the Regions, saying that you have done everything possible to increase the races, give the impression of being a government at the end of the race. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u137	Senator Santillo has the right to explain the question 3-02029 on the new Economic and Financial Plan of the Convention between Anas and Autostrade for Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this question, we ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to explain the content of the economic and financial plan (PEF) which defines interventions, investments and tariffs within the relationship with the Autostrade dealer for Italy SpA (Aspi). On 22 September 2020, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport sent to the Transport Regulatory Authority (ART) the proposal to update the above-mentioned Economic and Financial Plan, on which the Authority issued an extremely critical opinion on 14 October, noting that the Economic and Financial Plan (...) has some significant differences in application (...) which could also be reflected on the tariff levels applicable to users and that the Plan, now, provides for an average annual tariff variation of 1.75%, which instead, according to the ART estimates, should be worth 0.87 percent. Another censorship of the Authority is linked to the costs of incremental maintenance, i.e. the additional costs to be done to compensate for the lack of management of previous years. According to the opinion, the inclusion of such tariff interventions should be carefully assessed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in terms of eligibility. Finally, the Authority also contests the inclusion in the tariff of a charge related to the economic effects triggered by the emergency Covid-19, while the tariff system of the ART provides for the transfer of the tariff risk only to the concessionaire. In the light of the Authority's evidence, it appears more concrete the will of Autostrade for Italy SpA to increase its profits significantly, to the detriment of the users receiving the increased tolls. This scenario is absolutely against the current government action. It is hardly appropriate to recall that, following the tragedy of the Morandi bridge, the Government first started an administrative procedure to evaluate the withdrawal of the concession; subsequently this initiative resulted in the delicate negotiation, currently under way with Cassa depositi e loani, aimed at bringing the concessionaire back to a management fully consistent with the public interests involved, through the participation of the same deposit and loan fund, controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. As the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport knows, this complex and delicate negotiation aims to take over from Atlantia SpA, a holding company controlled by the Benetton family, the participation in Autostrade for Italy, in order to allow the entry of a cordata of investors led by Cassa deposits and loans. The same negotiation, however, risks being irreversibly altered by an economic-financial plan that, guaranteeing excessive advantages to the current concessionaire, is potentially able to adversely affect the sale price. As far as this is concerned, we want to know from the Minister what action he intends to take to prevent the new PEF from achieving unjustified advantages in favour of Autostrade for Italy, especially at this stage of delicate negotiations with Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, and to prevent irreversible effects on the terms, also and above all economic, of this negotiation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u139	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u140	Mr President, kind senator, the procedure for the resolution of the Convention for gross non-compliance, which was initiated since August 2018 against Autostrade per l'Italia SpA following the tragic event of the collapse of the Morandi bridge, was then suspended in July 2019, following the request, which the company itself made to the Ministry, to start a phase aimed at a settlement agreement and a radical modification of the Convention, more responding to the public interest and purified by unbalanced agreements in favour of the concessionaire. The phase for the verification of a possible settlement agreement, which was initiated precisely by the previous Government, was then continued by me in September 2019, following a specific decision of the Executive. In particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT) has carried out a very hard confrontation with the concessionaire, in order to verify the existence of the conditions for a consensual definition of the procedure to be submitted to the evaluation of the Government; all this in compliance with the constitutional principle of the good performance of the administrative action, also following the findings of the commission that had made a verification on the consequences of the implementation of the revocation, in order exclusively to pursue the public interest. After a long intercourse between Aspi and Atlantia, the Council of Ministers, at its meeting on 14 July, examined the latest transactive proposals transmitted and reached the outcome of a long and complex evaluation of all the technical and legal problems and a detailed comparison between the offices of my Ministry, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, starting the process provided for by the law for the formal preparation of a transaction. It is therefore with a view to this agreed solution, aimed at ensuring the full realization of the public interest linked to the need to allow users to continue to benefit from the infrastructure, to safeguard employment levels, to carry out new and substantial investments and to protect savers, which must be considered today the economic and financial plan (PEF) that was presented by Aspi, not by MIT. In highlighting that the MIT and the other administrations involved have constantly represented to the society the necessity to develop the proposal of the PEF receiving punctually all the indications of the new tariff regulation introduced from the Authority of regulation of the transports, I remember that the approval of the PEF from the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports, in agreement with the Ministry of the economy, follows precise procedural rules, among which the acquisition of the opinion of the Authority of regulation of the transports. The comments made by the Authority on Aspi's PEF proposal are currently the subject of specific investigations, which will of course be made known as soon as they are defined, but have content in many respects different from what I have just heard. However, I would like to end by reassuring the honourable Members and pointing out that this procedural junction only meets the technical rules of an economic and financial nature, as well as transport of course, but it does not affect the negotiation concerning the commitments of Aspi and Atlantia on the future corporate structure, which, among other things, is not managed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and in which case I can tell you that Cassa depositi e loani has confirmed to the Government that all the interlocations take place on the basis of competitive criteria and current market practices and, therefore, not attributable to the matter of PEF. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Toninelli has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u141	Minister, we are obviously concerned that we are dealing with a very delicate issue. It would be important, Minister, if we could speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u142	Colleagues, please let the government benches go.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u143	Toninelli (M5S). I was saying that we are obviously and objectively concerned, because we are faced with a very delicate issue, intertwined: on the one hand we have the new tariffs and the new terms of the concession, the economic-financial plan that MIT, therefore the granting State, makes with Aspi; on the other hand, we have a very delicate negotiation that a public subject, in this case Cassa depositi e loani, is taking forward to let the State in and make sure that it replaces that private interest and that majority corporate part of the concessionaire that has behaved objectively badly in the management of the 6,000 kilometers of Italian highways. [[Applause]] The question is completely intertwined, because it is true that that economic-financial Plan sent to the Authority of regulation of the transports is of Aspi, but it has passed from the MIT, that it has made it to the Authority of regulation of the transports, that it has gone resoundingly rejected because it counts several billions more of revenues for the private concessionaire, than it should preview the regulation, born as a consequence of an article of the so-called Genoa decree, that it has led the Authority of regulation of the transports to create the new tariff model. The new tariff model simply means one thing: lower tolls, higher maintenance, more safety and less profit for the dealership. [[Applause]] There is simply one thing to be done - you know very well, Minister - certainly very difficult, because these are giants who earn billions of euros, with a net operating margin (EBIT) of 64%, i.e. they remain in their pockets two out of three euros. They should simply be summoned and told that there is the law: the decree Genoa, tariff model ART, and in that law maintenances must increase; those who do not pay the penalty, which we predicted after the tragedy of the Morandi bridge. It must increase safety and tolls must decrease. It must be said to them simply that. The goal is not to blame anyone at all, but simply to rebalance the public interest with the legitimate private interest in profit, which has become an abuse of the public thing, which in this case was the highway. Forza Minister, therefore, let the Italian citizens win and the public interest on the desire for profit of these giants, who won instead against the State and against the citizens for tens of years. It means that when we go to the toll booth to pay the toll, we will pay a little more and we will see some more construction sites, which will make our motorways safer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u144	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u147	CORRADO (M5S). On October 27, two days ago, the supervisor of the Teatro dell'Opera di Roma Carlo Fuortes sent a prior information article 19 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 to the trade union secretariats and the RSU to inform them of the intention to resort to the Wage Integration Fund (FIS) from November 2 to 15 for permanent and fixed-term employees of all the production units of the foundation, up to 100% of the working time. This results in a 40% reduction in salary for contracted workers. The 14 Italian lyrical-symphonic foundations, nine of which - as is well known - are monitored by an extraordinary government commissioner, have suspended activities and shows. The result is a lack of cash in the box office for the cancelled shows, as well as a saving on production costs linked to the remuneration of artists, guests and stage settings, as well as the cut wages I said. Since the foundations have collected contributions from the state and local authorities for the current year, the savings due to the suspension of the shows, moreover increased by the lack of contractualization of the many precarious seasonal and intermittent workers, who for some time fill the foundations' staff, pending the full application of Decree-Law No. 59 of 2019, is far superior to the missed box office receipts. The production margin will therefore be positive for all. Under these conditions, the possible use of FIS for employees by lyric-symphonic foundations, albeit not illegitimate, seems at least inappropriate. What is the ratio of this choice? Using those resources for the integration fund without real economic and productive necessities, since the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and for tourism has confirmed - last but not least on 27 October - the possibility to set up shows to be staged, for example by streaming, means penalising the contracted workers and subtracting those resources from the priority of the moment, which is the protection of the workers of the show less protected, intermittent, seasonal, precarious since always, who have not worked since March because of the pandemic. The foundations, having received all the funds planned - I repeat - should therefore use the economic and financial certification drawn up by the College of Auditors, which confirms the need for such subsidies in order to avoid a loss of financial year. In the absence of such documentation, I think it is difficult for them to avoid a scandal when the final budgets are presented because they have asked for state subsidies in the presence of substantial profits and the scandal would obviously involve those who granted them. The priority - I repeat - is adequate and immediate compensation for the workers of the less protected spectacle. The government must protect these and all other workers of culture, promoting good practices and discouraging, instead, any distortion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u150	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the subject of my speech is the request for funding for investments in the Italian railway network in Sardinia. As already known, one of the main problems of the Sardinian logistics is its railway situation. In fact, the Sardinian rail network is characterized by low speed and reduced gauge. All over Italy, from North to South, the high-speed railway networks and capacity for passengers and goods are planned and implemented, the double track, the widespread electrification: everywhere, except from us. Do we have to feel guilty because we live on an island? According to the Tagliacarne Institute, which measures the infrastructure gap, ours is the worst Italian railway network. A positive note is there. Just a few days ago, the new Swing train was inaugurated, destined for a few routes. There are immediate concerns, because it is not certain that trains of this type have the possibility of taking obsolete railway routes, with consequences of unacceptable and risky services. With this situation, I believe it is essential to guarantee Sardinia the funding necessary for overcoming the current competitive disadvantage, as well as for many other Italian regions from North to South. In May 2020 a framework agreement was signed between the Region of Sardinia and RFI, in implementation of the bill n. 112 of 2015, instrument of coordination and planning, as well as programming, that would improve the quality of the railway service. The Region of Sardinia, in agreement with the FS group, is committed to strengthening and rendering efficient public transport. It has planned investments to renew and speed up the railway lines of the group on the whole island. The point is as follows: the measures for infrastructure and technological development, although shared in the agreement, do not find financial coverage, if not in any part. I'll tell you something interesting. According to the Legambiente commuting report, Sardinia has increased the number of passengers by 18 percent in recent years. This makes us even more aware of the need to improve and increase the efficiency of rail transport. Among the investments to be financed, the electrification of the railway network to the south of Oristano, including all the Sulcis, the doubling of the track between the localities of Villamassargia and Decimomannu, as well as between San Gavino and Oristano; the potenziamento of the railway line Macomer-Olbia, of strategic importance for the future of our island; but above all the connection with the port and the airport of Olbia. I ask, on behalf of all the Sardinians, one very important thing: the Government intervenes with no less than 900 million euros, minimum figure if you want to realize a real work of ageing the net, and with at least 100 million euros for interventions on the works of high speed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u151	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-270.ana.u152	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 3 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
