ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.07 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, Senator Sergio Zavoli disappeared on Tuesday night. Journalist and writer of incredible talent and brilliant intelligence, he was among the most lively and important storytellers in our history. Entered RAI very young, he was the creator and conductor of many transmissions of investigation and deepening. His face and voice became for millions of Italians the guarantee of a quality journalism, made of passion, tireless search for truth and respect. He had started his experience in RAI from sports journalism: unforgettable his "Process to the stage" of the Giro d'Italia, in the middle of the 1960s, in which he managed to merge sport and culture, involving in his intellectual transmission such as Pier Paolo Pasolini and Alberto Moravia. He was able to innovate, showing the human side of the competition, made of fatigue, sacrifice, work and teamwork. His great talent and love for investigative journalism led him to deal with complex political issues, from the rise of fascism to the dark years of terrorism, which still today represent a patrimony of knowledge of incredible relevance. In addition to the unmistakable voice, he was able to combine in the historical reconstruction rigor and narrative power. As president of RAI, from 1980 to 1986, he faced the challenge of overcoming the monopoly of state television in the belief that pluralism and competition were a means of promoting the cultural and civil growth of society. Innumerable are his literary publications in which his fascinating expressive style never came out of the perimeter of the faithful historical and biographical reconstruction of the lives of the many characters he told us and the facts he explained. To make known the facts in their reality, to illustrate every dynamic, every circumstance, every interest and every purpose was for him the best way to touch and awaken consciences, to bring both the reader and the viewer to reflect, to ask questions, to never passively accept the news. For the first time elected to the Senate in 2001 and then for three other legislatures, in each of his speeches he was distinguished by authority, competence, seriousness and great respect for the parliamentary institution. It was a cause of great personal displeasure, of all the senators and of all the administration could not have set up, because of the severe health security measures still in force today, the burning chamber here in the Senate to give him a final greeting. In renewing, therefore, the closeness of myself and of the whole Senate to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Sergio Zavoli, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Stretch applause.]] He asked the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u5	Mr President, the Government agrees with your words in expressing the pain of the whole country for the disappearance of Sergio Zavoli. In your life you happen to meet some giants; you understand it after a long time, when you have the years to look behind and you recognize among the many people who have frequented in your path those who emerge with the greatness of the giants. Sergio Zavoli was a giant in all the things he did from the human, professional and even political point of view. As the President recalled, he was a master of journalism and a pioneer, since Vittorio Veltroni identified his talent as a young boy who made radio chronicles in Rimini to call him in RAI. He was a pioneer who pointed the way and trained entire generations. He was a man of culture and cinema, a writer and a very proud MP to have been elected to his Rimini. He was a poet, and you know how screams the idea that a man who deals with something else, who makes politicians and journalists, writes poems: nobody expects him; and he expects rationality, if anything, aridity, coldness, while poems open a rift in the privacy of people. Yet Sergio Zavoli was a true poet: he wrote wonderful poems, which will remain in time. In all that he did he was a great, recognized such by the people who attended him because he was authentic; that authenticity that cannot be masked but that emerges forcefully in personal contacts. It was so different from today's time not only for age, but for characteristics. We are in a time when everything is fast, everything is necessarily superficial because superficiality is the offspring of acceleration and speed. Ours is a time of shouting, of aggression. And instead Sergio Zavoli was the opposite: he was the force of quiet, in his way of speaking, in his pauses of reflection, in analysis; never hostile to opponents, never aggressive in the extraordinary interviews he did, interviews in which his personality was so strong as to emerge in that voice out of the field that he introduced in Italian communication. There was no need to be seen: his voice was enough - in those great interviews that we all remember - to recognize his authority. Zavoli was a man out of time; he had fallen behind. Colleagues, I believe that his greatness is precisely in this: he was not behind the times of today, he was ahead; he simply showed us the way that the country should go, with those values and behaviors that he has shown us all his life. He'll keep doing it from his Rimini. In the end it will be forever in the Rimini of "Amarcord" together with his friend Fellini, to show us the way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u8	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, as Minister Franceschini mentioned earlier, Sergio Zavoli was also a poet, and there is a verse in one of his poems that I would like to recall: And I'm sheltered in what happens. To seek refuge in reality, in life: this was the figure of his commitment. And again: "Getting to know the facts is already a way of awakening consciences." And then you understand so many events in Sergio Zavoli's life. It is clear then why in 1962 he brought television, for the first time, into a psychiatric institution in Gorizia, to Dr. Basaglia. Knowing and awakening consciences: this is what makes him do the most beautiful interviews, with his voice that testified to the emotional participation that brought him in contact to ask even the most burning questions. He hated the admiring, emphatic information, since his first great television innovation that was the "Process to the stage": a journey in stories, in emotions, in the lives of the Gregari of the Giro d'Italia, not of the winners and the winners, but of those who had not made it, but was always the protagonist. So the most sincere, most engaging interviews are not those of Franco Balmamion who won the Italian tours, but those of Vito Taccone. And so it was for all of his great television broadcasts: "TV7", "Travel around man", "Birth of a dictatorship", "The Night of the Republic". All this is Zavoli journalist, but the same passion, commitment, intelligence and irony have characterized the activity of Senator Sergio Zavoli, who left his mark in this Chamber, a polite but powerful sign. We will miss Sergio Zavoli, but above all we will miss the ethical idea of information and political participation, so far from the panorama of this new millennium. Thank you, thank you for always Sergio Zavoli! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u11	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Sergio Zavoli has been so many stories in one story. President Casellati and Minister Franceschini have reminded us of this and we are very moved to join them in their words. For me child the first memory of Zavoli is the president of RAI Sergio Zavoli: it seemed a phrase all attacked in the news of that time. Then I discovered it in the home library, author of some volumes that were obviously important enough to have a significant place. Then we learned to know him - as was last remembered by my colleague Bressa - as the great storyteller, not only of epic stories. He interviewed the black jersey of the Giro d'Italia and the "cannibal" Merckx; that is, he was able to tell humanity within the sporting battle. Then, again, there is the friendship with Federico Fellini, with a beautiful image (I didn't know her, I learned it in these hours reading it in the newspapers), in which Zavoli says that they dreamed of color as children. It is a fantastic image: the others dreamed in black and white and they dreamed in color. It is beautiful in the tragedy that this 2020, year of the centenary of Federico Fellini, brings them back as they will be close forever in their Rimini, land to which it was attached. When he found out that there was a quarter of Romagna blood in my blood, he looked at me. Since then he greeted me saying "Happy Romanesque." He had accepted the challenge of journalism and quality, but then accepted the challenge of politics. It was good for Minister Franceschini to remember Vittorio Veltroni, and I think it is just as right to remember how his commitment to public affairs came on the basis of a request from Walter Veltroni, to whom our thanks go. A commitment that led him to take important positions also within the RAI Supervisory Committee and not only in the Senate Chamber, and that led him (at least as far as I am concerned) to live some pages that will remain forever in my personal memory, during the debate on constitutional reform. After long nights of parliamentary discussion - as will be remembered by the friends who were then in opposition doing obstructionism - our Group saw him almost always present in the Chamber and we first, from the benches of the Government, were concerned about Sergio and his resistance. When, after a particular passage, on October 14, 2015, he came to the Chamber after a night of discussions and after so much obstructionism, I sent him a note; one of the beautiful things of this time - I tell Minister Franceschini, who rightly remembered the difference between the times - is that the SMS passes, but the paper cards remain. From the government benches I sent him a note to thank him and tell him how much we owed him for his dedication, regardless of the vote he had expressed in that reform affair. He wrote me some words that will stay with me forever: Dear President, at my age, if I don't do my duty anymore, I can only resign from myself. Thank you for what you're writing to me. Greetings to you strong Romanesque. He said, I can only resign from myself. As I close my memory, I would like us to try to learn something, first in this House. Sergio Zavoli was the journalist who by definition is the opposite of fake news. It was anti-fake news by definition. He was the man who sought the truth. And how nice it would be for the Parliamentary Commission that we will devote to fake news in the coming weeks and months to remember it by devoting its work to it spiritually. They dedicate themselves to the rooms, they dedicate themselves to the classrooms; it would be nice for us to dedicate the work of that Commission exactly to a master like Zavoli. How beautiful it would be for those who make politics that in the Chamber in which we listen to the Prime Minister and all the Ministers we remember some teachers. Yes, because Latin teaches us that "maestro" is worth more than "minister": master comes from Magis, while minister comes from minus. If we are able, even in the future of the legislature, to remember a master such as Sergio Zavoli, I believe that we will have taken an important step in the way of witnessing the fidelity to the memory of a man who has been a century of civilization for all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u14	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Hello, Director. Yes, colleagues, Sergio Zavoli has written the most beautiful pages of radio and television journalism that have made the history of our country and the public service of our country. He was remembered as writer, politician, friend of Federico Fellini, Socialist of God, yes, senator, President of the RAI Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, president RAI, director of newspapers, but on this occasion, with great humility, allow me to try to convey to you the emotions I feel today in drawing such an important figure for the journalism of our country. Sergio Zavoli was, as he himself wrote in 2002 on the pages of "Union Review" at the 14th Congress of the CGIL: A privileged witness, being able to use an instrument like radio, first, and then TV, in half a century Republican battles linked to the broad ground, the defense of wages [...] to defend the workers' conquests against brigatist adventurism, to give just a few examples [...] from the days of Reggio Calabria to those of Reggio Emilia, from the scenery of the massacre to those of the years of lead, to the case Moro, and then to Ruffilli, to D'Antona [...] A true intellectual, protagonist of civil journalism at the service of his country. For him the word was sacred, it had a very high sense of institutions, a great humanity. We will remember him for his "Process to the stage" which taught a new way to tell the sport, for his "The Night of the Republic," for the radio documentary - which today we would call reportage - on the cloister, (interviewing the nuns) or, as Senator Bressa recalled before, with the television interviews in the asylum of Gorizia, with Franco Basaglia and his patients, ten years before the entry into force of Law n. 180 that absolves the handles. I have to stop here, even if I know I'm wronging him, but what I want to emphasize at this moment is the quality of his narration: film. Kidnapped by beauty, he was meticulous, picky in his work, everything had to be perfect, on radio as on TV. I had the privilege of learning - I don't know how much - to radio with those who worked with him. To make TV - it used to be said - you had to know how to radio, you had to read without dialect inflection, the technicians told me, and after lunch I was forced to read aloud an article suggesting the pause, the timbre of voice, the coldness in the story. This was the RAI: extraordinary professionalism and pride of working for the public service. We all remember the voice of Sergio Zavoli, indeed he knew how to write: the light cuts of his interviews and if there were silences were not dead times, they were part of the story. His was not a TV shouted, but deep, inquiring, in-depth. It is said that Zavoli's journalism did not look for the scoop, but if they are not scoop the interviews in the broadcast "The Night of the Republic" with the terrorists of the red brigades who had not regretted what is a scoop? His authority was a guarantee for everyone. Music, images, sounds, narrating voice, testimonies; dry, essential, deep, his investigations took shape in the assembly rooms. When the interviewee was in the foreground, his questions were voiceless. Other times, more style. He was a reporter because he was curious and his inquiries were compelling because he didn't have a preconceived thesis, which didn't mean he didn't have a point of view. I don't think there can be heirs, there are no heirs, certainly in the RAI of Sergio Zavoli's years have grown journalists with capital G, the successive generations have gone beyond that way of doing journalism: better? Worse? I know that when I finished seeing or listening to an inquiry by Sergio Zavoli, I said: that's why it's worth paying the public service fee. The quality of democracy depends on the quality and freedom of journalism. In the days of the nights of the Republic there was him, Sergio Zavoli, and many others like him who lit the spotlight and made civil conscience grow. Hello, Director. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u17	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Sergio Zavoli was an intellectual, a journalist, President of a large public company, writer, poet. He was also senator for four legislatures, until 2018. Today I happen to remember it from the very bench that was his until the last day of the parliamentary term. Many of us have met him personally and some of us have been friends with him, but we have all admired him and not only for his finesse and political balance, but also for his cultural and intellectual value. Rare times I have met in Parliament personalities, giants as Minister Franceschini said earlier, with an equal political passion, cultural depth and human sensitivity and it is difficult to remember it without feeling a great emotion. I was close to him in the many years I spent with the Senate, politically difficult years but in which there were still those who, like him, meant the political battle not only as tactics for the primacy, but also as battle of ideas. My friendship with him began long before his and my entry into the Senate, because we met in the 1970s when we were both much younger, in the time when Sergio Zavoli enriched the social and cultural life of our country with his extraordinary work as a journalist and director, author of exemplary investigations for the completeness of information and for the absence of any prejudice. It is the set of these memories that makes me say that Sergio Zavoli was a clear man and a loyal senator: loyal with his Romagna, with his Rimini, who he loved to the end; loyal with the friends of youth, first of all Federico Fellini; loyal with his fellow senators. I remember very well the tenderness with which he addressed to the senators his friends, Anna Finocchiaro, Mara Valdinosi, Roberta Pinotti and Valeria Fedeli. Above all, however, he was loyal and clear in his pride of being a senator of the Democratic Party. Man of the Left, witness to the values of parliamentary democracy and the role that the great popular parties have played in the history of the Republic, Sergio Zavoli knew how to read Italian society very well in its virtues and its degradation. He saw her grey - I quote - in too much time allowed to forget, to ambiguity, to surrender and even to lie. But even before such a merciless analysis Sergio Zavoli never gave up, because he was an old reformist and - I quote again - with a natural inclination even towards a well-governed recklessness. And it is for this nature of his man with his head turned to the future that Sergio Zavoli, talking about himself but addressing his fellow senators, said (hear): If I had some persuasive ability, immodestly I would invite you, present and absent, to believe that you grow up thanks to the problems that you are forced to solve, that it is good to solve and that it is urgent to resolve, in the conviction that it is contained in a word: together. These are very important words for us too, they concern us closely and are of an impressive topicality. Even today, the most direct way to get Italy out of the serious crisis it is going through is the same one that Zavoli indicated us years ago and that is contained in a word: together. By saying "together," Zavoli meant "just with individualism," enough with divisions and subdivisions, enough with the instrumental use of Parliament. Today Sergio probably would have liked to have been remembered in the Senate for his life so full and so adventurous; meanwhile for his work as a sports journalist, because it is there that he learned the job of the great envoy, learning how important in human events individual people and even the last ones are and how much the effort and sacrifices of those who put themselves in the game in those races where, like the "Giro d'Italia" is not admitted that someone is spared. Sport, if it is not fair, is not sport and Zavoli has taught Italy how much for all of us can be worth living by observing a code of ethics. But he would also have liked to have been remembered for his great journalistic investigations, for his testimony on the evolutionary dangers of our democracy and on the victory of democracy and the values of the Republic. He would have liked to have been remembered as a left-wing man and senator of the Democratic Party, of a party in which the internal debate has always been lively and free, but in which political unity remains a value. He would have liked to have been remembered for his work in the Senate, where the majority and the opposition have always listened to him in absolute silence, a sign of interest for what he said, but also of full respect for his person. Finally, he would have liked to have been remembered for his poems, in which he poured out his humanity and his sensitivity; poems from which shone the mystery of a public man confronted with his own personal instruments. Also for me, as for all those who preceded me, among the many memories that crowded my mind when I learned of his disappearance, the strongest memory is that of his voice; a voice that we heard on the radio, on television, a voice that we listened carefully in the Senate Chamber; a beautiful, charming, warm, deep and clear voice that expressed his thoughts together, but also so much about his personality and feelings; a voice that struck me every time I spoke to him in the quiet corners of the Senate or heard him on the phone or when he asked me to go and eat together, because - he said - we speak better. I still have Sergio Zavoli's voice in my ears and it is the sound of his voice that makes me feel him still alive. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u20	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Sergio Zavoli was an extraordinary personality in the Italian journalistic landscape, which marked, with its own style and language, an entire era. She was the only personality in RAI history to have held all roles: she was a journalist (and what a journalist!), author of surveys and programmes, from the "Process to the stage" until the "Night of the Republic," milestones in the history of Italian journalism. But he was also director of the GR1, deputy director of TG1, president of RAI and chaired the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. Roles carried out in a period of great transformation and vitality of the radio and television scene, which has always covered with great sense of the institutions. He has never been a journalist from scoop or from news "mordi e fugitivei," but he has always used the news to understand, analyze and induce reflection. As Aldo Grasso said yesterday in one of his memories: ==References====External links==* Official website He had an intelligent and never superficial style, and human compassion, a rare commodity in those who do his job, was his identifying trait, whether it was cloistered nuns, cyclists and even terrorists. But in these years of useless and harmful attempt to mystify history, it has been said that Sergio Zavoli was a socialist; certainly, "Socialist of God" was self-defined, as the title of a beautiful book of his memories reads. But nobody has said, even in the emotional reconstructions, that Sergio Zavoli in the eighties was a member of the assembly of the Italian Socialist Party: the so vituperata and improperly adjectived assembly of dwarfs and dancers, to prove instead of the effort that, in the name of quality, the new Craxian course intended to impress Italian politics through the opening of the party to the best intelligences of the cultural, artistic and intellectual landscape of an Italy that attacked the future. I happened, in these years of parliamentary experience, to meet and talk with Sergio Zavoli. We had made different choices, but there has never been a lack of respect and, even more so, there has never been a lack of a strong feeling of belonging to the same community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u23	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I wasn't lucky enough to meet Sergio Zavoli personally, but I have some memories: my first memory is TV7, a must-see event; I was just a little girl, but I remember the services perfectly. Then I got to know, through this unmistakable and profound voice - as he was - many of his speeches. The Night of the Republic is unforgettable: fifty hours of testimonies and insights on one of the darkest pages in the history of our Republic. But at this moment I would like, with a few sentences, to recall thoughts that I think can be a legacy to this House and to all of us. Speaking of the public service, he said: "An extraordinary means of promoting the cultural and civil growth of society," therefore based on truth. And another fundamental thing: To know the facts is already a way of awakening consciences. So the teaching that awareness is the basis for making decisions. He was a real intellectual, son of his time, I say. Born in 1923, he had that moral and intellectual rigor, that commitment and civic sense that had to last his whole life. It was like a conditio sine qua non: so we had to be citizens, so we had to be intellectual; from whatever role, we had to carry out a social commitment with so much civic sense. He said a sentence that once again involves us all and said it in this very Chamber: This world needs to be changed and it asks us to do so, that is, everyone has to do their part. This is a very, very substantial legacy. Zavoli gave us tools to understand the truth. He had great attention to the weak because awareness, both as a journalist but also as a politician, meant knowing also who was less visible, because they were the lives of people. An incredible sentence surprised me, but it was consistent and consistent with what it was: I wouldn't want to leave without attending my leave. After the event of my birth, I would like not to miss that, final, of the farewell, that is, to be always lucid, to live every little moment, to understand the mystery of life, to exist, almost to have to testify it again, even if it is the last act. Unbelievable. I think a character of this standing honored our country and did so as a refined intellectual, but ironic, always driven by this spirit of service. I believe that the entire Assembly and the country lose an important child, who has witnessed a century, but has also been the protagonist of being a witness: he has always been the first person to govern his life and also to direct that of others, but in the sense of truth. I think he has been a great teacher and that is why we honor his death with so much respect and grasping the teachings that, as men and women engaged in politics, we must carry on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u26	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the disappearance of Sergio Zavoli pains us deeply. From this Assembly, which has welcomed him for seventeen years, the sentiments of closeness and condolence of the Movimento 5 Star come to his family and his colleagues in the Democratic Party. Zavoli has been a protagonist of Italian journalism and of the civil and cultural life of our recent history. With him disappears a great voice of freedom, one of the most important journalists of post-war Italy, an ideal and moral reference point in the world of information and television. Zavoli was a personality of great intellectual rigour, which he has constantly interpreted, at the service of pluralism and freedom of information, the values of democracy, testified by a firm adherence to the values of our Constitution. In years when all kinds of information and knowledge ran the risk of being subject to market logic and crushed in the grip of politics, Zavoli, a radio and television journalist, practiced the profession with sensitivity, intelligence, passion and strict respect for the reality of the facts told. He did so as a few, as a young radio reporter who arrived in Rome after the Second World War. He assured others - everyone - to do so even when the RAI became Socialist President in complicated years, as a proud and jealous guardian of the authentic mission of our public broadcasting service; a mission which he also defended in his role as President of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. We often don't like our time, he said, and perhaps for this very reason, he, better than anyone else, wanted to look at it, investigate it and especially understand it. He did so with investigations that left an indelible mark in the history of Italian journalism: "The birth of a dictatorship" and "The night of the Republic". He did it with so many other headings and broadcasts and then with books, with his books, and he did it, after all, also as a parliamentarians, from these scranni and in these corridors when, as a rare example for a politician, he loved to entertain with the reporters more to make them talk and know than to let himself be interviewed. For Zavoli it was a necessity to understand, as it was a civil and moral necessity to tell; in short, the heart and essence of the journalism that Zavoli managed to combine and unfold as few others in our country. He was also convinced that television could be a tool to change this society for the better, just as he firmly believed that journalism had to strive to preserve its roots in purity, starting from the public service that had to claim every day, he said, the autonomy of its cultural mission information. This is why his disappearance not only grieves us for the vacuum that he leaves but questions us about important issues of our time, the quality of journalistic work and respect for the rights of information workers, about free and independent information that allows us to become citizens aware of our rights and not subjects. This is the legacy that Sergio Zavoli leaves us. The love for Italy and the knowledge of national history inspired his work as a journalist, writer, poet, as well as his investigations into the living body of Italian reality. Journalism was for him the key to open the door to the knowledge of the country, to go down to its most intimate essence to probe and investigate its beauty and complexity, extraordinary pages of a human and professional path that have carved in an indelible way our imaginary viewers, leaving at the same time a precious trace and precious seeds in our consciousness of citizens. This is mine, our greeting to Sergio Zavoli, a man I had the privilege of knowing, touching first, then appreciating and finally living professionally in this building. Of course, Sergio, it remains the regret of those pages of novel not read together as they were formed, but that at the bottom you can browse in the place of peace and serenity, wherever it is, that you have chosen and deserved. My greeting basically also wants to be a wish, especially to those new generations that face the world of journalism. The wish is to follow the example of Sergio, of those few good masters, now increasingly rare, who every day seek the key of knowledge that can open windows and rooms of our lived to let in the light of awareness where there is the darkness of abandonment and indifference, a work that he has done with great intellectual honesty, sense of institutions and intense human participation, as an authoritative commentator has pointed out today. For this we are grateful to Sergio Zavoli, symbol and bishop of the public service that we would like and for this we will always remember him with sincere affection and great admiration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u29	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. I will only take a minute because for Sergio Zavoli I had a special affection, I loved him very much. He has been a great teacher in work, in life and in this House, I would not like to say goodbye to him because, at least for me, Senator Sergio Zavoli is still sitting in his place, with his sparkling eyes, his acumen, his intelligence, and his gaze of profound humanity. I believe that, if we hear, as I do, that look and, therefore, also this way of seeing politics and our country, we will only be able to improve ourselves in our work and do better for the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u32	Barachini (FIBP-UDC). Television can change the world for the better. Let's make sure he doesn't just represent him and, let's say, distort even one of his faces. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is how Sergio Zavoli defined the importance and role of public broadcasting. For his contribution as protagonist the culture and the democratic life of our country I ask, as President of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, the same that he led from 2009 to 2013, to dedicate to Sergio Zavoli the Chamber in which our Commission meets. [[Applause]] It is a request shared with the representatives of the groups of the bicameral commission, which I am sure you will find your consent, President Casellati, and the President of the Chamber of Deputies Figo. Throughout his life at the heart of the decisive events of Italian history, Zavoli has been able to address the most complicated issues to be understood by ordinary citizens, speaking on radio and television with the language of spontaneous journalism and attentive to the person. His style of story, from the chronicles of the Giro d'Italia to "La notte della Repubblica," became the heritage of society and costume. His greatest ability was to ask, and ask, always right questions, with simple words. A man of refined culture, he did not seek consensus, but rather worked to leave a doubt, deepen, open new spaces of dialogue. Its RAI Presidency and that of the RAI Supervisory Commission were an example of pluralism and respect for the rules of the institutions. His balanced, authoritative and profound voice, the timbre of an Italy whose heritage must make us proud of our past and responsible for our present and our future. For these reasons, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Sergio Zavoli for his great lesson of civil passion, which will always remain alive and present in these classrooms. Today, as Sergio Zavoli said, we need to understand, why we live a time that, in many ways, we do not like. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u33	Senator Barachini, this seems to me a beautiful initiative, which I support with pleasure. I hope, as Senator Renzi said earlier, that all his initiatives will be echoed in that Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u36	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I shall be brief. I would just like to join in the condolences of the whole House, which you have expressed in a perfect way, for the disappearance of Sergio Zavoli. There is little to add to the many words, all beautiful and all justified, that I have heard. Perhaps an additional remark is that Zavoli, unlike many great journalists, what he was, had no problems, I don't mean to get his hands dirty, but to do everything. He, that is, did what he liked. He invented the "Process to the stage," just as he invented the "Night of the Republic." He went from one subject to another, with the taste of the journalist who knows how to deepen but who also knows how to invent. I think he was the last of the old-fashioned journalists, but I think they can still teach a lot of journalism today. We won't forget that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on the bill n° 1905, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Valente, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u38	Mr President, Senators, the bill of conversion under discussion today, in the field of gender equality in the electoral consultations of the Regions with ordinary statute, approved at first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, aims, in a situation of course exceptional, to give full implementation to the constitutional principle of equal access to elected positions, including in the course of the upcoming elections for the renewal of the Regional Council of Puglia, scheduled for 20 September next. I want to say at once that this is a measure of great institutional and political value, since there are not only fundamental rights of the citizens and citizens of Apulia, but the same quality of democracy and, ultimately, the very idea of democracy that we all have. I would also like to thank all the political forces and, above all, the opposition forces, who have understood the urgency and importance of the subject on which the measure is based and have allowed the text to arrive quickly at the debate and examination of this House, also in this area of Parliament. The need for this urgent measure, as we all know, stems from a specific fact, which is frankly not objectionable, both in terms of reality and in terms of legal matters and, finally, I think I can say it from a political point of view. However, before we get to this, I would like to take a step back: the regulatory framework in which the measure under consideration is laid down is defined by a law, which Parliament finally approved in 2016, which in turn amended Law n.165 of 2 July 2004, which was intended to implement Article 122 of the Constitution, which assigns to ordinary law the task of defining the fundamental principles to which electoral systems, including regional systems must adhere. Precisely thanks to the changes introduced in the past legislature, that law, to the general provisions on the promotion of gender equality, today also combines some specific provisions, with the aim of providing mechanisms for the protection of the less represented gender, tarandoli on the different electoral systems. Among these, two mechanisms were introduced, in order to remain only to the systems with preference voting,: a presence on the electoral lists of a minimum quota of 40% of the less represented genre and the possibility of expressing the double preference to candidates of a different kind, with the consequence, in case of violation, of the nullity of the second preference expressed. Without entering into the substance of a debate that Parliament faced a few years ago, however, I would like to recall the context in which that law matured: on the one hand there are the constitutional reforms of the 2000s, such as the reform of Article 51 of the Constitution, adopted in 2003, which provides that citizens have the right to have equal access to elected assemblies and provides that the Republic will promote equal opportunities between men and women with appropriate measures. Then there is the reform of Article 117 of the Constitution of 2001, whereby regional legislation must intervene to remove all those obstacles that prevent the full equality of men and women and promote equal access for women and men to all elective positions. Finally, there is the already mentioned article 122 of the Constitution, which gives the Regions the power to legislate on the electoral system of regional elected assemblies, however, reserving to the State the determination of the fundamental principles. From this renewed constitutional framework comes the numerous regional laws, which in recent years have introduced provisions on the gender composition of the lists and on the so-called double gender preference. Among these I remember only the first, adopted in 2009 by the Campania Region, a model then followed by the other Regions. On this law, the Constitutional Court expressed itself in judgment No. 4 of 2010, which declared it in line with the principles underlying Articles 51 and 117 of the Constitution, as both expression of the principle of substantive equality contained in Article 3. We can say that that sentence changed the course of history on this front. I wanted to briefly recall the regulatory framework and the history of recent years, because they make it clear how difficult it is today to tolerate delays, delays or, worse, hypocrisies on the principle of equal opportunities for elected positions, which has long been a fundamental part of the national order and the shared image of our democracy. Now, the decree-law that we are examining in the first article sets out a principle of which I ask you to consider the relevance, namely that the failure to transpose into regional law the principles recalled in the matter of electoral systems is one of the prerequisites for the activation of the government's replacement power vis-à-vis the Regions, pursuant to Article 120 of the Constitution, governed by subsequent law of implementation. The second paragraph contains specific provisions to be applied in the Puglia Region during the elections of the new Regional Council scheduled for September 2020. In particular, it is established that, in the absence of an autonomous adjustment by the Regional Assembly of the aforementioned provisions of Law No 165 of 2004, two new ones are applied, which - I stress - are assumed to ensure the full exercise of the political rights of the Apulian citizens in order to guarantee the legal unity of the Republic and the respect of the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter on the whole national territory. The provisions we are discussing are as follows: the first provides that each elector will be able to express two votes of preference, one of which is necessarily reserved to a candidate of different sex from the other; the second is that, if two preferences are expressed for candidates of the same sex, the second will be cancelled; finally, again in Article 1, in order to give full and speedy implementation to the previous rules, the prefect of Bari is appointed extraordinary commissioner with the task of ensuring the requirements required for the implementation of the decree-law and to verify together the compatibility of the regional provisions with the new ones introduced precisely by this decree-law relating to the double preference; the remaining two articles contain clauses of financial invariance and provisions for the entry into force of the decree-law. It is clear then, ladies and gentlemen, that the scope of the decree-law was created by the failure to adapt the electoral system of the Puglia Region to the principles already introduced since Law No 165 of 2004 on equal access to elected posts. I am fully aware of the sensitivity of the scope of the intervention, relating to the electoral system of a region, in which it would be risky to create precedents through a little cautious use of the substitution power also made available by the Constitution. I am aware of all this, i.e. the profile not only of legitimacy but also of opportunities: yet, fellow senators, I believe that I can objectively assess the reality of what has happened over the past few weeks and the limits that this legislative intervention respects. It should be clear to each of us that the presuppositions of fact and law fall in the wake of what is imposed precisely by article 8 of law n. 131 of 2003, that it dictates the implementing rules of article 120, second paragraph, of the Constitution, starting from the requirement to assign to the involved agency - in this case, the Region Puglia - a reasonable time within which to take measures due or necessary relative to the non-fulfilment of the obligations previewed. The dates are the formal acts that, in this case, are worth more than many words to say that precisely that criterion of adequacy has been fully respected: after all the informal reminders, the letter of Minister Boccia, with the invitation to adapt, bears the date of 5 June; the day 25 of the same month arrives the information of Minister Boccia in the Council of Ministers, which indicates the non-compliance; of 3 July is the further note of President Conte, with the invitation to decide with the utmost urgency; 23 arrives the formal warning with invitation to provide by the 28th, proposing the hypothesis of a decree-law; finally, of 31 July the participation of the President of the Region in the Council of Ministers representing Puglia. The scan of the dates shows how the intervention of the Government has been made necessary by the prolonged inertia of the Apulian Regional Council, which is simply in fact, but above all shows that it has been granted time to the Regional Assembly to adapt to the national regulations and that it has been reasonable, especially taking into account the imminent electoral deadlines of 20 and 21 September next. A further consideration should be given to the proportionality of intervention, which is also required by the law implementing Article 120 of the Constitution. The electoral law of the Puglia Region presents a proportional system with preference: consequently, the intervention of the Government could only orient itself in the selection between different mechanisms provided by the law of 2016, in order to promote equality of access to the elective offices, towards the model of double preference, based precisely on gender. On this ground too, therefore, there has been full awareness and respect on the part of the Government of the limits that such an intervention was obviously required to respect. Precisely in view of the elements of caution with which it has been carried out under the conditions given, allow me then to take a consideration of the more political meaning in order to underline the importance of an intervention which, for the first time, activates the substitute powers provided for in Article 120 of the Constitution in order to affirm the gender balance in the representation of the institutions. Many people have considered this to be a major replacement; some have considered it excessive; all - I think we will agree on this - we consider it an intervention that we would have preferred not to do. This, however, must not prevent us from considering, with even more conviction, the goodness, as well as the full legitimacy, of the step taken by the Government, even in a totally exceptional way. All I am saying is that if we use this power of intervention to ensure equality between women and men, we do not abuse power, we do not violate the principle of loyal cooperation between the State and the regions, we are not restricting the sphere of rights, but on the contrary we are simply expanding it. The State is simply fulfilling the role of protection of the sphere of rights, which must be protected uniformly throughout the national territory. The main task of our democracy is precisely to advance the rights of all citizens in a uniform manner; this is the full meaning of Article 3 of our Constitution which, in full mutual collaboration between the State, Regions, Municipalities and territorial authorities, all must pursue. (The sitting was suspended at 10.15 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 10.15 a.m.) The amendments to legislative decree n. 216 of 2013, on gender equality in the Regional Councils, came mainly from the consideration, widely shared - given to the hand - and the need for action at regional level. After four years, those numbers have not changed much: according to the February 2020 data, the presence of women in regional councils on average does not reach 25%. There are virtuous exceptions such as those of Emilia-Romagna, Lazio, Umbria and Tuscany, but also declining regions and, above all, regions where women elected to the Council do not exceed 10% of men. The objective of overcoming this imbalance affects us all, regardless of the political strength of which we belong. It is one of those challenges that impose - I believe - the effort to leave the belongings to the deployments behind in order to make a step forward in the general interest that we all represent. We have done so many times in the past; we have repeatedly been able to find broadly majority convergences on the issue of women's rights and equal opportunities for all and all, starting from the strong sharing of the called constitutional reforms. Today with this measure we have the opportunity to send the country a further message of cohesion before the protection and promotion of the undisputed and indisputable rights of each of us. I ask the whole House to do so together once again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u39	He asked Senator Calderoli to explain a question for a preliminary ruling. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u40	Mr President, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I wish to make a point of order, namely that the matter should not be discussed. The matter apparently does not seem much: it is among those who can be called "decretines," which is not a bad word, but refers to the size of the decree. So it is probably not for the Government that, instead, used exhilarating tones against the provision. President Conte, in fact, has proclaimed that with this moral, political and legal imperative a page of the Italian history of political rights has been written. Minister Boccia - whom I greet - said, instead, that dual preference belongs to the category of universal rights. Minister Provenzano, on the other hand, stated that this was a step forward in the fight against inequality. In the corridors the decree was not considered in this way; they consider it a "decree." They call it inappropriate - and, I think, quite vulgar - the decree of women. It has been examined and discussed by the House of Deputies within a couple of hours. On the other hand, I believe that every time a decree-law intervenes in electoral matters it is a very serious fact. From the regulatory and constitutional point of view, for the times, the common sense and the effects it produces, I think we can talk about a veritable obnoxiousness. A reproach for its contents. In fact, that the Government may vary a decree-law and mistakes not a normative reference, but the text, is something that usually should not happen. Article 1 refers to the failure to transpose into regional law the systems of election of the President and the other members of the Regional Council as well as the law of 15 February 2016, n. 20. Well, it is a pity that the law to which reference is made does not refer to the election of the members of the Junta, who among other things are not elected by anyone. The word "incompatibility" has been forgotten; but in a law that incorporates legislation, it would be much debated and questionable whether a wrong reference is used in the content. There is more. Each of the Chambers has its own Rules which, in the hierarchy of sources, can be considered almost paraconstitutional. At the level of the Council Presidency, on the functioning of the Government, the equivalent is Law No. 400 of 1988, which specifically says that it is not possible to use the decree of urgency in the matters referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution, so that in the electoral matter the normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted. This excludes the adoption of electoral decrees-laws. It is true that in the past there has been some dangerous precedent, but usually it was done when there was agreement of all political forces, and here no one has been consulted, or there has been intervention on the electoral process, not on the system or on the electoral law. And if someone intervenes on the composition of the lists - and, more importantly, when preference is expressed - it means that it affects that part that transforms the vote into elected; therefore it is completely outside of a constitutional discourse. I talked about time references earlier. The basis of this measure is Article 120 of the Constitution, i.e. where the legal unity of the country is put at risk or even the essential levels, the so-called LEAs - that double preference can be included in the LEAs seems questionable to me! - intervene with the replacement power. The reform contained in Article 120 is dated 2001, i.e. nineteen years ago. The amendment to Article 51 was made in 2003. The law wrongly cited, which contains the fundamental principles to which reference must be made in the regional elections, is from 2004, with the update of 2016 regarding the promotion of equal access to elected posts. Nineteen, seventeen, sixteen or, at best, four years have passed; yet the Conte Government wakes up on July 23, 2020 discovering the urgency in the middle of the outcome of the pandemic, with the problems before us (general strike for the failure to block redundancies, resumption of school activity, companies that are not known if they will reopen or how children will go to school and workers to work). The 23 Count sends a letter of warning to Emiliano in which the intimate within a reasonable time (five days) to adapt the electoral legislation; failing this, on July 31 there will be a decree-law. This decree-law in my opinion not only could not be done, but it is a danger compared to the regularity of the elections, because if we intervene on the mode of expression of the vote for all the other regions, even at the level of list quotas, if I am collecting the signatures and I have 180 days to collect them, do I have to go and modify a list for which I was already collecting the signatures? So, if someone doesn't present the list because they didn't collect the signatures, can they ask for the validation of the elections because they weren't put in a position to have the 180 days to collect the signatures? Sounds like an excessive danger to me to run. [[Applause]] With regard to inconsistencies, I would like to mention a few facts. In May 2019 there was the Conte government? Yes. Have they voted in Piedmont Region? Yes. Has the Piedmont Region ever made an electoral law with double preference? Never; use state law. Therefore, where it is the State that does not put the double preference nobody says anything; if instead it happens at the level of a Region, the substitute power is used. There is more: we are now in August 2020, while the elections in Puglia should have taken place in May 2020 and were only moved as a result of the Covid. Why did no one intervene in April if it was so basic? It seems to me that it is a beautiful propaganda commercial, then to which prodest I do not know: if it is done to be able to bring also the Movimento 5 Stars in support of Emiliano, to withdraw the candidacy of Scalfarotto or to give a nice kick in the shins to the autonomy of the Regions. Minister Boccia, you cannot say that you want to support the differentiated autonomy and then with a decree-reading remove the little autonomy that was at the head of the Regions. [[Applause]] Some say that this is done to promote equal access. A humble and modest connoisseur of electoral matters tells you this: those who know it know that in colleges that have at their disposal a number of nominations ranging from two to seven, therefore rather small, the double preference of gender damages the female sex, because normally the male is more unfaithful than the female, so next to a male candidacy...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u41	Finish, ma'am. I think he's on his way...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u42	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll finish. The male usually mates with four or five representatives of the gentle sex, which the woman usually does not. The result is that the male carries the vows of four or five ladies and the ladies are not elected. Mr President, I shall end with an appeal and then be silent. If the audience of the passive electorate is increased by fragmenting the expression of preferences, the possibility of women being elected is reduced. Women put themselves on the list, as we did in Umbria electing a woman, just as we elected a president of the House and a president of the Senate woman and in Tuscany we candidate - alive God - a woman. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u43	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u46	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I wish to express my thanks and a sense of surprise. Thank you for the way in which I have the honour of presiding in the Commission, since we are faced with a law which aims to affirm a very important issue of principle. In the Commission there has been no opposition, no impediment, no delay in our work, and this has enabled us to be here in good time to take this important decision. There were no speeches in general discussion, there were no amendments, there were no objections to explanations of vote when it came to giving a mandate to the rapporteur to report positively to the House on the act itself. As President of the Commission, therefore, I can only thank you for the constructive spirit that has been shown. You will understand, therefore, how surprised I received the request from my Group a few minutes ago to speak on a preliminary constitutionality. Let us say that an innovative element has been included in the parliamentary procedure: everything I would have expected except for a preliminary constitutionality, after things had gone that way. But that's it. To Senator Calderoli, who explained the reasons that lead him to consider this measure unconstitutional, I would like to say that all his doctrine - which is vast, we recognize him all - should be put at the service of more noble and more useful battles. This does not seem to me a battle neither noble nor useful and its argumenting seemed extremely presumptuous, apart from the end of the Segrine that I confess I have absolutely not understood. The point is eminently political: we are faced with a principle, that of promoting equal access to elected positions for women, which is unequivocally set not only in Article 120 of the Constitution, but in Article 117, paragraph 7, and Article 51. I believe that one cannot joke when faced with a case such as that represented by the story of Puglia and I believe that the Government would have mistakenly failed to create the conditions for exercising the powers conferred on it by Article 120 of the Constitution and I think that it has done so respecting the principles of loyal cooperation and subsidiarity that are mentioned in that article. As Senator Valente said in her report, the government did not act from evening to morning, invited to adapt, warned and when it had no other tools used that of the exercise of the substitute powers. But I will say more: not only is there no element in the provision that can authorize an accusation of non-compliance with the Constitution (if anything we would have betrayed the principles and values of the Constitution by not moving), but we must say that this is not enough and that it is necessary to promote equal access to elected offices also other measures. I welcome what colleagues in the House have launched to address the issue of the inadmissibility of lists that do not respect the balance between genders and to intervene also in other regions - because Puglia is not the only one - where double preference has not been foreseen and it is right that an ordinary bill should be introduced in this field. I very much welcome the draft law signed by Senator Pinotti - he is here next to me and I thank you for the initiative you have taken - supported by all the groups in this House, to promote the presence of women in all bodies that are subject to public appointments. I hope, since it has been signed by all the parliamentary groups, that the conditions can be created for this measure to be placed on a fast lane and for unanimous approval. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u47	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u48	Mr President, I have actually been given five minutes, but I think it is even less enough for me to describe what happened, or rather how much we risked happening at the Apulian Regional Council, and indeed what we risked even just now in this House. In fact, we ran the risk of seeing a show already seen, crushed and ritrito. When it comes to the issue of gender equality, everyone is ready to support it in words, everyone fills their mouths with the need to achieve gender equality, they go to talk shows and they get a lot of talk, but then at the moment of the facts, when they show real support, the conviction about the need to achieve gender equality, they say something of the kind: dear my women, excuse me so much but this cannot be done, this costs too much; here there is already a man who legitimately claims his place, so excuse me so much, even this time, the gender equality you will win next time. [[Applause.]] It has also happened here in this House, exactly in the same script, and it was about to happen on the Regional Council of Puglia. Well, the President-in-Office of the Council had to intervene, exercising his substitute powers, to assert what is owed to women: theirs, our place in the institutions, our place as representatives and spokesperson for the citizens. [[Applause]] Let's remember that in the first legislature of the history of the Republic the women elected, we women were 49, 5% of the total; in 2018, in this legislature, we reached the record of representativeness because we are one in three. Well, that's great, but it's not enough yet, and it took 70 years to achieve that. It is estimated that it will take another ninety-five years to achieve full equality in the representation of elected positions. Well, this episode in the Regional Council of Puglia really didn't take us, because it really risks making us take a further step back, if we think that to achieve economic equality, according to the Global gender gap report of 2020, it will take two hundred and fifty-seven years. And so, in this context, in this framework, as we emerge from a pandemic that no one has ever, even in this House, failed to point out that it has weighed enormously on women's shoulders, perhaps more than on men's shoulders, because women are already more vulnerable from the workplace and outside the world of work; in this context, where data still show that care work weighs 75% on women's shoulders and where the female employment rate is among the lowest in Europe and falls further and dramatically after a pregnancy, some political forces in the Apulian Regional Council have had the courage to try to bury women, their rights and our rights under a shameful mountain of amendments. I am sorry to say that exactly the same script was staged in this House a few minutes ago. It is indeed a scene that we would have preferred not to see: 1,946 amendments were tabled to the Apulian Council to try to delete women and to ensure that everything would go on as before. Nobody needs pink quotas, because there are no pink quotas, there are gender quotas, to protect both genders. [[Applause]] This time it went well. This time something has happened that has never happened before and this vile attack on women's rights and democracy itself has been foiled by the President-in-Office of the Council. But there will not always be such a President-in-Office of the Council in the future. The only antidote to this no longer happening is then that we women - I know it is hard, I know it costs sacrifice - participate more in political life, participate actively; it will become so much easier over time and we will never risk being removed from procedures again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day, because politics is firmly committed to asserting the strength of inviolable rights, enshrined in the Constitution and in the law of the Republic: gender equality in access to elected positions. This measure is charged with the profound meaning with which the Constituents intended to dictate the Basic Law of the State: the will not to stop at the enunciation of the rights and principles on which our democracy rests, but to go further, to reaffirm the capital importance of their defense and realization, putting in place again and strengthening the logic of responsibility, thus reaffirming the quality of democracy, the image and credibility of our country. Today the action of this Parliament fully fulfils that duty and, thanks to this intervention, it also gives the Apulian electricians and voters the power to free themselves and, above all, to express themselves freely and fully. It is a matter that the National Government, the Government of the Puglia Region and its President and the Democratic Party have always considered central, and I say it as Apulian. 10:45 a.m. (MESSINA Assuntela followed). This is an essential step forward for women's rights, which calls into question a vision of the world, the perspective of modernity, of human rights, which are political, civil and social rights, which we intend to achieve also through strong and widely shared decisions, such as the bill presented at first by Senator Pinotti and signed by all the parliamentary groups, together. This is also an important step that deserves respect and political sharing, having at the center a battle of civilization, and that needs a convergence that goes beyond party membership and is realized through clear and therefore identifiable choices. It is a step forward, but it is not enough to say won this battle of civilization. Gender equality, the theme of the right representation of women in assemblies and leadership roles is still a lively and pulsating issue on which there is still so much to fight and cannot be bypassed through the strategies of those who, from time to time, betray exactly the will not to proceed: a deleterious attitude for the entire community that also makes the function and the commitments themselves that politics must take on itself. It is a struggle that, unfortunately, still today is sometimes debased, even coming to manifest itself in a real gender removal, as Minister Provenzano has acutely said; a struggle that opens a gap in the wall of indifference against which women often break the reasons. This is one of the most important and urgent issues to be addressed in our time. This is a fundamental political point, a moral necessity that recognizes the value of comparison with skills, with different sensibilities and with the new languages that the female universe daily puts in the field. This is a cultural priority that needs determination and courage. Yet, even in cutting these targets of civilizations, stubborn and out-of-time resistances are often encountered. To regain dignity in terms of institutional representation is fundamental; never, as at this critical stage, is it essential to continue to put in place substantive responses for all those women who today are experiencing difficulties. New times and spaces are necessary, revisited through an effective change of paradigm. In a reality in which human relations never, as now, intersect in a network characterized by fluidity and weakness of intersubjective bonds, even more important and urgent is to resolve these contradictions and fill these gaps. A passage, what is accomplished today, necessary and urgent, that crosses and interprets the essential junctions of modern democracies; a passage that is still to the solidity of constitutional principles inspired by a logic of social construction. Through a serious, certain and mature commitment, the rights of women can and must acquire that fullness and inalienability able to raise respect for human dignity above all contingency. They are these indispensable leaps of civilization, necessary not to let us fall on the night of politics and, therefore, on the night of the Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u51	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u52	Mr President, I wanted to speak in this debate. First of all, we were surprised at the start of the debate, because we did not envisage the question as a group and in fact we did not participate substantially in the vote. This is because it seems to us that occasions like these cannot be divisive. Our position, that of the Brothers of Italy, is clear from the beginning: we would like to see soon, in the not too distant future, rules that facilitate the entry of women into politics no longer have reason to exist, simply because with the attainment of gender equality it would no longer make sense to lay down special rules, because at that point each person, man or woman, would be able to apply for what he shows, in politics as in all other professions. But today - we have always supported it - such a rule is understandable. However, I do not think that my political formation needs to be demonstrated. We are the only party that has as its leader a woman and we are a Group that has as its vice president a woman. I could cite also ancient examples: when I was a new deputy and regional coordinator of Lombardy, the party indicated a woman as vice president of the Region; it was the highest position that at that time had the Italian political right in Lombardy and even in Italy. I am speaking today because I did not like the intervention of Senator Maiorino. Senator Maiorino is ignorant, in the sense of the verb "Ignore" because she does not know the situation in Puglia. I've been to Puglia and I've documented myself very well, Senator. All three centre-right groups told the President of the Puglia Region to be fully available to vote on the text proposed by President Emiliano and dismissed unanimously by the Commission. When, in the Council, a number of amendments were tabled which changed the measure, intervening in the field other than gender equality, 2,000 amendments were then tabled with the warning that they would be withdrawn immediately if the only legislation on gender equality had been adopted. At this point, President Emiliano had the majority leave the Chamber. As a result, there was no quorum, at the incredible will of the majority of those who rule in Puglia, and no longer wanted to convene the Council, despite the official statements that if you had returned to the Council you would immediately vote on the rule that was then the subject of the decree-law. This is the truth and that is why I have allowed myself to say that in this matter the senator is ignorant, as the voice of the verb ignore. In this House, emphasis has been given to what has been done. But what has been done? Nothing, on the part of a political movement, has been lawfully put forward a preliminary question, with arguments that can be shared or not (we, for example, did not share them). It wasn't that dramatic. It was not an initiative of this House; it was a speech that lasted twenty minutes. What interests me is the genesis of the story in Puglia, where there are no political parties in support and political parties not in support, but - on the contrary - a problem like this bends to opportunism of the moment and this is bad and a damage to men, women, politics and gender equality. I believe that the decree-law could have been avoided if the central-left government of Puglia had not tried to use the issue of gender equality for other purposes and insisted. I repeat, there would have been no need to force the rules with a decree-law on electoral matters that has no precedent, but that we accept as a consequence of the error of the Apulian center-left that forced the Government to this exceptional need for intervention. I will conclude by announcing that, as we have always said, we will vote in favour of this rule which introduces the possibility of a double vote of preference and confirming the hope of a close time when it will no longer be necessary to consider women a gender that needs support. Only then, when we all agree in that direction - and I hope it will happen very soon - will there be no one who can ever question whether rules such as these are to protect gender equality, suspecting instead that they serve to safeguard the interests of one part of Members rather than another. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u53	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u54	Mr President, Minister, I immediately declare that we have all been waiting for almost seventy-five years for the time when there will be no need to defend the presence of women not only in Parliament, but in all the bodies (I am thinking of university and research and enterprise), because the specific quality of the female contribution is required to pay attention to the fruits and to what it is objectively capable of giving. I myself, for age, for white hair and for everything that this means, have never enjoyed the facilitating factor of the pink quota. Everything was the result of a job, a struggle, an effort of conviction and involvement. But, just because at this moment, for my personal history and for the history of the people who are next to me, I realize that it is difficult for women to reach places that correspond simply to their quality, their competence, dedication to the task and the positive results they achieve with their work, I think that there is still need for some element that facilitates their presence. So let there be a measure that I objectively call not "pink quotas," but a natural policy that provides for what I perceive as a prejudice, and therefore also as an injustice, through an a priori recognition of merit, and that is what fixes quotas in some way. Of course, I was very impressed by the course of the measure when we examined it. Frankly, among the crowd of decrees from which we have been crushed and suffocated since the beginning of lockdown to the present day, there was no need for yet another decree. I was also very impressed by the absolute speed at which agreement was reached between the President of the Council, the Presidents of the Commission and the vote. I would like - as happened with the bridge of Genoa - the same speed was applied to other important and strong topics. I just want to mention one because - as everyone knows - it is one of the strongest presences in my view as value and responsibility. I am referring, for example, to the draft law on people suffering from rare diseases that is stalled, as is the case with the National Plan for Rare Diseases, because there is a tendency to always differ from one category to another. I would like this to prove that it can be done, but then it is done, because the truly dissonant element at this moment is that it has been done only for the measure at our examination. The President-in-Office does not say that it cannot be done. Say more when and how and if you want to do it, because there are so many urgent problems in this country. I quote one that is overwhelming us, which is what concerns school, where confusion seems to increase with some sort of negative entropy. Every time we intervene, the confusion increases, without this contributing in any way to reassuring families and parents. The government is able to make decisions and then identify all its objectives well. Not that the measure we are examining is not an objective at the moment, but it is certainly not the only one. What makes it fateful, in some way, is the fact that it is an exception. On the other hand, just yesterday someone, speaking of today's session, pointed out the famous criterion of merit, the issue of meritocracy. I think that, in terms of meritocracy, women should not fear anything. I recall the first speech in this House, some seventy-five years ago, by one of the first elected Members who, standing up, said that fellow men should not have to worry about the fact that women could play their part well or badly, because worse still than they had done until then would have been very difficult. I remember we were coming out of the war. 10:54 a.m. (BINETTI follow). The presence of women is an element of stabilisation. It is a powerful element of cohesion in the work, including intergroup work, and therefore between different groups and between Parliament and civil society. Let us therefore welcome an ever wider female presence, more and more stated and more explicitly based on merit and, in the interests of success, at this moment also on quotas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for political rights, especially for the rights of us Apulian women. The Government and the President Conte, showing particular sensitivity to the problem, have had to intervene with special decree-law to adapt the legislation of the Region Puglia to a norm approved in Parliament in 2016 that, precisely, provides the bond of double preference. Only Apulian voters had been denied the guarantee of being able to choose between candidates of different genders, as happens in all the regions of Italy, on the occasion of the imminent electoral competition. I have to say, as a Puglia, that the Regional Council did not remedy this vulnus in good time, reducing itself to the last useful session, after the Government's warning, in order to approve this legislation before the dissolution of the Regional Council itself. In fact, for the power games of men between the right and the left, between various amendments and the lack of a quorum, nothing had happened. This was the first time that a Council of Ministers had to meet this failure by exercising the powers set out in Article 120 of the Constitution to restore a rule of law aimed at eliminating any gender inequality. I can strongly state that only the Movimento 5 Stars struggled to the end to bring this result, bearing in mind that, already at regional level, out of eight advisors three are women. [[Applause]] From an analysis of the Constitutional Court, the Republic's task is to remove socio-economic obstacles, on the basis of public interventions aimed, on the one hand, at supporting disadvantaged categories of citizens and, on the other hand, at extending participation in political, economic and social life to all, men and women. Quoting Bobbio's words, equality understood as the equalization of the different is a permanent and perennial ideal of men living in society. Any overcoming of this or that discrimination is interpreted as a stage in civil progress. Proudly, today I can say without hesitation that, with the decree under consideration, we are carrying out in full another stage for the civil progress of our country. A renewal of politics and society is achieved through the joint contribution and balanced participation of women and men. The equal participation of women, at all levels of decision-making structures, in the economic, social and cultural fields, is necessary to ensure the needs of both sexes in policies, programmes and actions. The day of July 28 for Puglia is a dark moment, where all of a sudden the long battles sustained by partisan women who managed to obtain public office for a woman seem to be frustrated. The presence of women in the institutions represents the achievement of a complete democracy and guarantees the breakup of old systems of power. I am a prison manager, a prison manager, and I can attest that the presence of women, in this predominantly male environment, guarantees that sensitivity belonging only to the female sphere. Equal democracy is what our system must strive for and is a question of legal civilization. For this very reason, equal democracy is neither a concession nor a gift. I should therefore like to stress that the presence of women should not be an exception, but normal. As Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars I have the honour to be part of a Group that holds the highest number of female presences among its ranks: a practical demonstration of how politics can be done through equal rights between men and women and can increase those levels, still too low, of the presence of women in institutional positions at all levels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u58	Mr President, the Regional Council of Puglia is composed of 50 regional councillors - five out of 50 women - and the Regional Council of Puglia, composed of nine councillors plus the President, sees the presence of only one woman. The rapporteur, in her speech, first recalled that, at national level, the average female presence in elected bodies in the regions is about 25%. Therefore, since all other regions have complied with legal obligations, the question is whether this intervention is necessary. The answer is yes, because these numbers tell us, of course, that the Region of Puglia has not been able to come autonomously to give itself some norms, despite the reconstruction that my colleague La Russa has done before and that surely corresponds to reality. The principle, the key point is that there was no capacity on the part of the bodies of that region to come autonomously to be able to give themselves rules and rules that could guarantee gender equality in the expression of the vote by the voters of Apulia. If this is a priority, even the debate that has taken place, even by the Vice-President of this House, Senator Calderoli, on the possibility of stopping the action, I think it will fail. Moreover, Article 120 of our Constitution speaks clearly of the possibility given to the Government to intervene, in a subsidiary and respectful manner of the principle of loyal collaboration, instead of a Region, in order to guarantee the protection of legal unity. Given that, before issuing the decree under consideration, the Government has tried on several occasions to collaborate loyally with the Puglia Region, in order to arrive at the definition of this principle and place that has left all the space and time necessary for the Regional Council to fulfil the obligation in question, fully exercising its function, carried out various attempts, we believe it has been corrected to intervene by applying Article 120 of the Constitution and, therefore, in a substitute way. It is important that in the Puglia Region, as in the rest of the country, women have the opportunity to have equal access, like men, to the elective positions, for a principle that we could define as "paradox of priorities." It is, that is, now established and verified that different people and different genders make different choices, in legislative processes and in decision-making processes. This happens in the elective classrooms, as in companies and in all complex organizations. The contribution of the female gender allows us to respond in a fuller, more appropriate and more sensitive way - as the colleague said before me - than to some themes in which the specificity of gender, the history that each has behind us and the sensibilities that nature attaches to each of us help to arrive at more precise, more complete and more respectful determinations of the needs of many, even of those who perhaps, at times, are not adequately respected. Today we opened our work with the commemoration of Senator Zavoli and, in the speech of Mr Zanda, it was said how important the word "together" was for him. It is something that struck me, it is very beautiful and I believe that many of us make politics, interpret their role and strive to act in their service to the nation, the municipality or the region, trying to do so "together" as far as possible, also with respect to the political differences that there are also. Here, perhaps sometimes this whole should be declined precisely from the different genres and not only together with the different political forces or the various souls who live in the same political community. To really succeed in the effort to include men and women in the trials; to do so - of course - starting from the norms, but then allowing citizens to freely express such a choice; and, when electing a mayor or a president of the Region, that the rules help them to ensure that this whole translates into a balanced presence in the executive body of men and women: all this I believe is necessary and necessary. The measure under consideration today also helps the Puglia Region to take this road and go towards this direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I generally do not like the regulatory measures that tend to upset and try to shape it, sometimes until it deforms it. In this sense, the pink quotas - technically rules for gender equality, whether pink or blue, but we all know what pink quotas they are - can be acceptable if they are configured as temperate adjustments and, above all, limited over time; in short, if it is a question of encouraging phenomena that can lead to an improvement in society. If, on the other hand, legislation on the subject is understood as a social orthopedic tool for the introduction of a permanent plaster, the speech changes and, in this case, I would definitely be against it. The intervention on the electoral legislation of Puglia seems to me, in this sense, borderline: it does not serve to ensure spaces on the lists, which were already guaranteed, but in some way to encourage the expression of a vote, following an existing direction now a little 'everywhere. However, that is not what I want to discuss in particular. On today's decree-law I will also conduct myself by following the discussion. Mine, however, wants to be, so to speak, a speech in future memory, and I would like to address my colleagues in the majority first of all in this regard. The point is that this rule is based on sexual identity, that is, on the fact that in the definition of sex of belonging there is an objectivity and that the latter is transfused at all stages of the electoral process: in the composition of the lists, because it must be known how many men and how many women are involved; in the acceptance of the nominations; in the expression of the vote, because when you go to the cabin you know that you have to settle taking into account that there are men and women in the lists; in order to finally arrive also at the possible exercise of the mandate in representative assemblies, whose gender balance laws as these obviously intend to favor. In these same hours, however, your own majority is supporting in the other branch of Parliament a law which, in the combined arrangement between its structure and the illustrative texts, in some way denies the objectivity of sexual identity and makes its exact opposite rise, i.e. a gender identity fluid and detached from the biological data, even from the inviolable right of man, protected by Article 2 of the Constitution. That is what is apparent from the explanatory report. The two initiatives seem to me to be in clear contrast. I say this out of paradox, but not even too much: what would happen if a person counted as a woman in the compilation of lists the next day became a man? Would the protection of gender equality, pursued by this decree-law, or the right to gender identity, enshrined in the law in question in the House, prevail? There is obviously a problem, which - it is clear - has nothing to do with what, in the common sense, is called homophobia. One thing, in fact, is the freedom of choice in sexual preferences that, as far as I am concerned, is out of the question and of which everyone responds to his own dictates. Another is to release the sexual identity - which, incidentally, is the assumption itself for the homosexual option to have a meaning also from the semantic point of view: if I deny identity, obviously I also deny homosexuality - from a fact of objectivity. Colleagues, all this highlights a conflict between sexual choice and sexual identity. And it is no coincidence that such a conflict is deflagrated in these days within the same LGBT world and between a part of it and the feminist world, which after years of battles for equality - like the one that led to the decree that we are discussing today - see the spaces conquered by an ideology that contests the assumption itself (i.e., the sexual identity) of their recognition. With practical implications: it is for example news of these hours that in other parts of the world there is an uprising of women athletes against trans-athletes, that is, against the possibility that men athletes can profess women and compete with them starting from evidently predominant physical characteristics. Colleagues of the majority, I give you a tip: read the writings of Rowling, Harry Potter's mother, and the reactions they have aroused. Colleagues, you have to make a choice: support sexual identity today or drown it tomorrow in genderfluid acid. If not, you will face an insane contradiction that will, by force of things, result in regulatory contradiction. It's no small problem. And perhaps this is a problem worth discussing in Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u62	Mr President, I am speaking for a few minutes to explain the decree-law in question which concerns, in particular, the region of Puglia, from which I come. I am also embarrassed that I speak as a Member of Parliament before and as an Apulian citizen. The embarrassment finds, instead, a political relief because, if today we have arrived to a intervention of the State on a matter of strictly regional competence, a political responsibility is ascribed to the president of the Region of Puglia Michele Emiliano, that in the five years of legislature has not been able to approve the regional law that recalls the principles of gender equality. He did not succeed: he had promised this throughout the legislature as a fundamental point of the administrative and political programme of the center-left Junta. He failed in his consiliature to achieve this goal and to keep a promise made to the citizens of Apulia and, above all, to the women of Apulia. This fact, however, does not surprise us because perhaps it has distant roots and concerns the politics of the past years of the center-left in Puglia, because from 2005 onwards the Region has not been able to adapt the regional regulations. Many times it preaches well, but it is badly rocketed in the facts: the center-left preaches well on civil rights and gender equality, but in fact it is absolutely not able to have its majorities approve an electoral law, as in this case happened in Puglia. It is an act, this decree-law, potentially capable of opening a wound in our country, a particular vulnus in relations also between the central state and the regions. What grieves us and personally grieves me even more today is that the only Region that has not adapted to the regulations is - alas - unfortunately, the Puglia Region; a fact that I personally consider serious because we all know that Article 120 of the Constitution, which allows the Government to replace the Regions and local authorities, is used only in certain cases, and we all know what they are: the failure to respect international norms and treaties, the serious danger to safety and public security, that is, when they require the protection of the legal unity or economic unity of the Republic. These are three very serious cases mentioned in our Constitution and, therefore, specifically, we can say that the Puglia Region has not respected the third point, namely the principles of the protection of legal unity; therefore, a responsibility, as I said, political, attributable only to the Apulian Governor. As we have already expressed in other interventions, in principle - and we have done so politically - we have shown all our willingness in Regione Puglia to approve also in the last possible hours the regional law. Unfortunately, the bench has been blown up exclusively by the center-left majority and today we resort to a very unusual instrument that can create real difficulties in our country and especially in the relations between the State and the Regions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u63	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u64	Mr President, Senators and Senators, today we are called to debate and express ourselves on the decree-law on gender equality in the ordinary-status regional electoral consultations. The exceptionality, I would say the style of this Government manifests itself also on this occasion intervening of empire in the delicate field of regional regulations and because of the attention to a basic principle that we should not stand here and talk about, that is to make effective and tangible gender equality also in the Apulian Region, in this extreme strip of land that is the land of Europe. This makes this decree-law, which - let us remember - comes as a final act to the numerous requests made by the Central State, expressed as a recommendation, urgent and untenable. It is not so much the approach of the electoral appointment - certainly also that, because not resolving it we risk to postpone it for another five years - as the fact of giving more impetus to the re-sewing of the genre gap intolerable in a civil country of the 21st century like Italy. The current one is the time of strong decisions, and our current Government has all the authority and esteem to be able to express it by this further act, in accordance with the constitutional spirit, as formulated in Article 3 of our Constitution, and that strongly wanted our Mothers Constituents, and so also the fathers, so much so that they placed it among the very first articles of the text. What we are going to do today is nothing but the fulfillment of a promise made more than half a century ago, which has been lost for too long. I hope that it will not remain an isolated case, a single case, but instead it will be the prelude to a new season of changes also for the other regions, which still kick to admit the new state of things. Let us return to the land of Puglia, a magical land that expressed tarantism, a complex anthropological phenomenon with which above all women have learned over the centuries to express their existential malaise and with which they have demanded attention, as scholar Ernesto De Martino admirably explained in his 1959 essay "The land of remorse". Today women finally have institutional channels with which to express themselves, and surely to guarantee their proper presence in the institutions is a strong signal to achieve gender equality, especially for Apulian women because, besides being numerically more (51%), they also have a higher level of schooling. Here, therefore, the theme of representation comes to be linked to that of the equal presence of women. That is democracy. It is a shot of feminine pride attached to that of men who are already mature and ready for change; if you want, an act of protest just like the tarantella has long been, but in a more composed form. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u65	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u66	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking my fellow Members for the sense of responsibility, the words they have spoken and the important contribution they have made from all political forces and also for the sharing of a course that is certainly delicate, on which I have already referred in the opening report. Let me just point out a few things that I have heard. We have all defined the legitimacy path of the measure: although it is of course particularly courageous, the regulatory framework referred to (Articles 120 and 122 of the Constitution and the implementation of Law No 165 of 2004, as amended in 2016) allows this intervention. I would now like to comment briefly on the subject covered by the measure, also in relation to some of the speeches that have been requested. Meanwhile, to President Calderoli I would like to make a joke not so much on the question and the opportunity, on which President Parrini has already spoken very well and I do not add to him, but on a sentence I think absolutely unhappy and not worthy of a man also of his institutional culture, about the fidelity and infidelity of men. Meanwhile, I believe it is not about fidelity or infidelity, but about loyalty and fairness. However, by the legislator I would expect not to take action, but rather the stigmatization of a behaviour that risks penalising women and therefore the commitment to work to ensure that, together with a law that is in itself necessary but never sufficient, we also change behaviors, practices and cultures that today make it difficult for women to access political and institutional life; a very difficult - I remember - access in general and very complicated when dealing with the subject of preferences and the way in which they are collected. In the meantime, in connection with the second point I wish to make, we are not dealing here with quotas, and I have heard many times the word 'quote' used. There are no quotas here: there is an anti-discrimination rule, which is quite different from the quota, which is an absolutely internationally accredited orientation, as well as at national level. We are working to adopt an anti-discrimination rule, as has been called for in several speeches. Neither of the two genres must be underrepresented on the lists and, on the other hand, we give an extra chance to the electorate to express preference. Let's broaden the options of the voter, let's not narrow them down. Moreover, if we cancel, we cancel only the second preference; so let us not restrict the field, which is why the Constitutional Court has ruled in favour of the electoral law of Campania and all the others that have followed. Finally, I would like to say that the measure we are about to take today is directly concerned with the quality of democracy and it is not a concession that we make to women. It is a battle that we are leading for the quality of our democratic institutions, in the meantime so that they are more democratic than they have been until now and because the participation of women, also thanks to double preference, has changed considerably in our country. This Parliament has changed its face thanks to the possibility, through the primary instrument, to arrive with double preference, and the regions have also changed their faces. It also changes the quality of the product of the places of democracy in this country, when it is women and men who participate fully. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u68	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u69	Mr President, my thanks to all the parliamentary groups, by majority and opposition, are not rite, but are heard by the whole Government, because in a few days Parliament is preparing to convert into law a decree that the Government itself - Senator Quagliariello - would not have wanted to issue. The activation of the substitute powers under Article 120 has often been recalled and requested, in these dramatic months, and the Government has always attempted, until the last, mediation with the Regions. We have done so on many subjects of ordinary administration and extraordinary administration, from health care to transport, in the most difficult and dramatic moments that also concerned public order, in the end always by common agreement with the Regions. And, following the path that President Mattarella always reminds us of loyal cooperation, we have found a solution. This time it was not possible - and I want to say this especially to my colleagues from the opposition benches - not because the Regions were not available, because they all not only accepted my first letter, which on behalf of the Government invited the remaining Regional Councils to adapt, but in fact they also indirectly asked for the Government's intervention to be followed if the Regional Councils had not adapted. I would like to remind you here in this House - and I thank you very much - that the Regional Council of Liguria, after the warning, unanimously adjusted the rules with a debate in the light of day. This was not possible in Puglia because of different dynamics that it is not up to me to call, but that - I would like to remind you - we often find ourselves in parliamentary debates: some things are said, and then others are done. And when the secret vote to respond to the need to make gender equality clear - as unfortunately often happened in the recent history of that Regional Council - it is clear that the delta that represents the distance between the things that are declared and the things that are then made is very high. That was the case. We did not have the conditions in that Council and we finally intervened. And we did it because it was inevitable to intervene and we will do it also for Piedmont and Calabria. Someone here in this House, Mr President, has called Calabria. Senator Calderoli, whose affectionate greeting is a replacement, and with whom we shared many moments in these classrooms, with his known competence he recalled that the Government did not intervene last April, but the majority has changed - I say it with great frankness - and also the sensitivity on these issues has changed. With the President-in-Office of the Council we have put a clear issue: either it is done, or it is wary. The Liguria Region did it and we thanked President Toti and the entire Regional Council from the Government and I did it personally in State-Regions Conference. Piedmont and Calabria have not done so and, if they do not, we will intervene with a substitute act, but I am sure that Piedmont and Calabria will do so. President Santelli herself, who shows how a woman can lead a Southern Region and change the course of history and events, notes that there are only three women present in the Regional Council of the Calabria Region. The municipalities, since there are rules on gender equality, have more than tripled the presence of women in municipal councils. At some point, the Italian Parliament has put listed companies before its responsibilities and I think it makes a great deal of sense to put certain passages in the proceedings of our Parliament. When we adopted that rule together, which also passed unanimously, on the listed and on the banks, 97 percent of the board members were men and some contested the intervention. Thanks to that intervention, representation has changed today. Were there no women then? Of course they were there, they were up to it, and they were even better at it. They're here today and they're leading those trials. The story would be a long one, Mr President, but since Parliament with a great sense of responsibility has accepted the intervention made by the Government, I still thank the Groups for the contributions they have given us in general discussion and I ask that the opinion that the General Court of the State, at the request of the Government, had prepared is also sent to the Senate, because I think that the passage that the General Court of the State has made on legal unity and gender equality is a great contribution to our debate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u70	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u73	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, where there is discrimination, there is someone who draws a privilege from it. That is why resistance to standards such as this is always very high. In Puglia the legislation on double preference was the victim of a gigantic hypocrisy, because the party against women knows no political color: first the majority scheduled the measure on the last useful day, thus sending a clear signal to a council composed of 90 percent men; then came 2,000 obstructive amendments of the opposition that created the ideal ground for the absence, in the middle of the night, of the legal number. In this way everyone had the opportunity to blame others, but in reality under the bench they could celebrate everyone. The norm had jumped as in 2015, there was only to hope that the government would not have the strength or the will to intervene, instead it did. The arguments to justify the opposition to positive actions are many and unfortunately there are also many women who claim that they are not a species in danger of extinction, that those who have the skills do not need help, that positive actions are a humiliation for our sex. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Women have centuries of discrimination on their shoulders and in Italy only with the 1948 Constitution the principle of equality between men and women is inserted for the first time in the legal order; only since 1963 women have been admitted to all professions, for example to the competition in the judiciary, and only since 1975, with the new family law, have equal rights been established for spouses; then, in 1956, the Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutionality of ius corrigendi and in 1968 that of the differentiated treatment of adultery; in 1957 the European Community forced its members to introduce the principle of equal pay, which, among other things, remained a theoretical principle. He had to wait for 1981 to remove from the penal code the attenuating for the crimes of honour. In short, formal equality has only been achieved since the 1990s, but all statistics tell us that we are far from substantial equality. Especially in the southern European countries there is still a large gender gap. In Italy, women's employment is among the lowest in Europe with a percentage of women employing 20 points less than men. Only in 2019, 37,000 women left their jobs after the birth of a first child. Not to mention the small number of women in management positions in public administration and justice, although these represent more than half of the public sector workforce. The Covid-19, then, aggravated gender inequalities, making the whole family management weigh on women. The imbalance in political representation is particularly serious. In Parliament we women are 35% of the total and that is the best figure in republican history. In the municipalities the female presence is about 30 percent, while in the regional councils the numbers are usually lower. The comparison with other European countries shows us that in none of these countries an approach to equality has been achieved without positive action, only that in these countries the measures have been taken fifty years ago; with the result that, for example, in the Scandinavian countries the equality of political representation has now been achieved. This creates the need to take positive corrective measures of discrimination, such as the one we are voting on today. Article 51 of the Constitution, which states that, in order to guarantee to all citizens, of the one and the other sex, access to elected positions under conditions of equality, the Republic shall promote equal opportunities between men and women. Hence a series of normative interventions on the electoral systems, including Law No 20 of 2016 on the balance of gender representation in the Regional Councils, which requires the Regions to provide at least two preferences, one of which is reserved for a candidate of different sex. This is the rule to which Puglia has not adapted and, as an autonomousist, regrets that the State has been forced to intervene, exercising for the first time the substitute power. But it is also regrettable that this intervention has been limited only to dual preference, without providing for exclusion for lists which do not respect the gender quota. In theory, there could be lists of only men, who would only be sanctioned with a fine. The data show that only if different measures are combined there is substantial growth of women elected: therefore, gender share on the lists, male-female alternation on the list of candidates and dual preference. It is also regrettable that in my Autonomous Province, despite the demands of women, it has not been possible to introduce the obligation of gender alternation in the preferred vote. Since our electoral system provides for up to four preferences, which are traditionally used, it would have been a very effective intervention; for some, perhaps, too much. In fact, as I said before, discrimination always creates an advantage for someone and every position occupied by a woman is a place taken away from a man. In any case, as a Group For Autonomies we believe in the importance of positive actions, but we also think that Puglia has not rendered a good service to those who believe in the value of local autonomy, even when it comes to Regions with ordinary statutes. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u76	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, we have nothing to show about the issue of double gender preference: we have a history that sees us constantly in favour. In all regions we have proposed and voted on any electoral law that would provide for double gender preference. I remember that even in my Umbria, at the time, we were almost forerunners and one of the proposals was at my first signature and I must say that, transversally, the favor of a proposal on double gender preference was not exactly so obvious. We have, as everyone knows, the only female national leader; the center-right elected Presidents of the Region, in the recent round, as Jole Santelli in Calabria and Donatella Tesei in my Umbria. So on this we clear the field in any way: we do not need to show that we are in favour of double gender preference as recognition of effective equality of access from the start. Just as we are totally in favour of the composition of lists that provide for a gender representation of at least 40%, as the law states, but we, in general, in all regions have drawn up lists that provide half and half. Having said that, the problem is the usual mystification of the facts. In Puglia, colleagues, the problem has not been institutional, it has not been of the regional council and it has not been of the political forces present in that Region: the problem is of the PD, that today comes here to make us also the lesson, as usual. It is the PD that failed to pass a law in Puglia that provided for double gender preference. It is President Emiliano who in Puglia has failed to coordinate with his majority, forcing or inviting her to vote an electoral law consistent with national legislation that provides for double gender preference. It is not an institutional problem, I repeat. With regard to this issue, the Government's intervention seeks to put a piece of cloth in relation to the inconsistency and non-existence of a part of its majority. Yet, we are talking about a structured party, which comes from the old school; we are talking about a party which, in theory, should be able to transmit from the centre to the periphery the indications of vote on such important and fundamental issues. It is a fact that bothers not only from the formal point of view and political dialectic, but also from the institutional point of view, because there is no doubt that this is a measure of the Government that is of goat wool, of dubious legitimacy. As you know, Mr Calderoli, in the first part - which I share almost entirely - of his speech, explained the reasons for concern with regard to the serious precedent that arises and with regard to the forcing of a national law that prevents action on regional electoral laws by decree. There are reasons for concern. The main objection to this, however, is that the PD, which is covered by flags which are not its own - because today, in this House, through the rapporteur's report, it is covered by flags which are not its own - and which cannot pass on to peripheral levels, cannot give us lessons, neither of equality nor of regional legislative correctness. [[Applause]] Having said that, I make two small and quick objections. The first is that in this electoral round we vote both in Puglia and in other regions, but also in Valle D'Aosta, Region with special statute where there is no double gender preference: then the women of the Aosta Valley are different from the women of Puglia? [[Applause]] Don't the women in the Valle d'Aosta have the same equal rights of access from the start? And how do we solve the problem, since you act like you want to solve the problem of Puglia? And then in Calabria, where we voted a few months ago, what happened? And what happens to Piedmont and Friuli-Venezia Giulia? Colleagues, let us act in a different way, in a more sincere, more straightforward, more normal, with less rhetorical and less filthy way, because we are all strongly in favour of putting in place every legislative measure that contemplates the difficulty of reconciling women with a whole series of problems related to the double role. We all are, and who more than we can be, since our party sees as a national leader a woman who sacrificed everything to politics? Here, in relation to this, we do not take the little lessons. As for the flags, everyone keeps their own and we avoid putting on flags that do not belong to us. We will see what will happen in the future, downstream of the conversion of the decree-law under consideration. I would like to hope that each regional council will assume its responsibilities and that measures will be taken to enable women to participate fully in all electoral competitions: with equality of departure and not with Indian port quota reserves. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u79	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, today is 6 August 2020 and we are still talking about equality in access to political elective positions. Unfortunately, we still have to talk about this because, after seventy-four years of the Democratic Republic based on well-known principles of equality and social equality between citizens and citizens, there is still a gap. Many people in this House have said this: women have conquered the active electorate, but they have not yet fully conquered the passive electorate. As I have just heard, women are still not allowed to participate in the elections by moving from the same starting tape as men. That's the situation. Today we have a national landscape with regions that express only two women presidents (less than 10%) and the average of the elected regional councillors in Italy is just over 20%. This is inequality. Inequalities persist in Italy for certainly cultural reasons, but also because many Regions have not fulfilled their duties and have adopted regulations that comply with the constitutional principles of equal access to political elected positions. It is clear that the adoption of these rules does not mean guaranteeing the result of the election of women - there would be no more - but it certainly means promoting equal access. "Promoting" is a dynamic verb and means that the Regions must do, as required by Article 117 of the Constitution: it is clear for many years, it is not that we must say it today for the first time. In this Parliament we have recently adopted specific laws, such as Law No 20 of 15 February 2016, which tell the regions exactly what to do. With regard to proportional election systems, with the expression of preferences, as in the case of Puglia, three clear things are established, not even particularly complicated: that the lists must be composed, at least for 40%, of the less represented gender (it is not clear why equality is not provided for, because I would have expected 50%, however we are at 40); that a double gender preference must be expressed, with freedom in the expression of the first preference, but with the second preference that must be of different gender, with the loss of the second preference expressed; that - rightly - women have the same visibility as men in the context of the electoral campaign on the media. Unfortunately, although these forecasts are constitutional and are also very clear, many regions have not adopted the legislation, or have only done so in part. Today we are talking about Puglia, but it also applies to Piedmont, Calabria and some Regions with a special statute, such as Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Valle d'Aosta and, as was said before, the Autonomous Province of Bolzano. In these regions which have not adopted or partially adopted the rules on equal access, the underrepresentation of women in the Regional Councils is evident in the numbers. In Piedmont the female presence is even relegated from 25.5 percent of the past legislature to the current 15%, while in Calabria we stand at 10%, when it is known to all that women are in number even more than 50% of the Italian population, as is the female electoral body. We come to Puglia, where the female representation is ten percent firm. Since the approval of Law No 20 of 2016 nothing has been done, even after the government's formalisation, which expired on 28 July and therefore today it is absolutely necessary and appropriate to approve the decree-law in question, in order to activate the substitution power of the State. What is interesting to say in this House, in a very clear way, is the reason for these resistances. During these years of political commitment - thank God not too many - I realized that the uses and customs rooted in a model of male society persist. I didn't notice just myself, so much so that there are writers and sociologists, like Aldo Bonomi, who talk about the social model of the middle-aged white man from the fixed place, a cultural model very rooted in Italy. This model also persists, of course, because it is a model of power and usually power preserves itself and to self-preserve what has it done? It exercised the power not to choose to invest resources in services that would make our society, in the Regions and of course overall, truly equal. He chose not to invest in nests, not to invest in care services, he chose not to invest to boost female employment, so much so that we stand still at less than 50% of working women. These are choices that weigh like boulders on the model of State Italy. Unfortunately, I realized, and I have experienced this personally, that many of the resistances also depend on a pre-cultural model that I call a bit "machista." In the council of the Autonomous Province of Trento that was degasperiana - fortunately it was, but unfortunately it is not anymore - I have heard unrepeatable statements, repeated however for hours, to create a obstruction such as to prevent the approval of double gender preference. Of course, cultural models prevail and pre-cultural models succumb and even the Autonomous Province of Trento has approved the law on double gender preference, but we are careful. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, colleagues, there's a very annoying noise. [[Recalls of the President]] We are careful because it must be noted that even the regions that have approved the double gender preference are making attempts to withdraw from these achievements with the motivation that they have tried - goodness them - but that women are not found. We deny that, then, because in the lists we are making we can confirm that women are fully prepared to make politics and of course to apply. 11:58 a.m. (Follow CONZACTS). I say all this to confirm that we are witnessing very important environmental resistance to the issue of gender equality, but not only the laws of the State, which we are preparing to approve today, but also the Constitutional Court helps us to go in the right direction because it affirmed, even recently in judgment n. 143 of 2010, that the principle of equal access applies to all regions, including special self-governments. Moreover, we are talking about constitutional rules which must be adopted and applied in the same way throughout the territory of the State in order to ensure, on the one hand, the full exercise of political rights and, on the other hand, the legal unity and unity of the Italian Republic. So, to use the authoritative words of Martin Luther King, we can say that it is always the right time to do the right thing, that it is never too late and so today we are going in that direction and voting on an important measure. Of course, Italy Viva votes in favour of Decree-Law No 86 and votes in favour of every step towards equality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u82	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that this debate takes place before the summer recess, because I believe that, on the other hand, a number of issues have been raised and also reflections deserved and deserved a dedicated debate. I'll try to name a few. In the meantime, I would like to remind you here, as many colleagues and many colleagues have done, of Article 51 of the Constitution, which was amended here in 2003: there was also a very interesting debate in this House and, to be honest, also very unpleasant, about the content of some speeches. As we see, it is an article that has further created and established a fundamental principle. We are all in love and in love with Article 3 of our Constitution, which I always remember, and especially the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, by virtue of which the Republic removes all the causes of inequalities, but in the specific case of gender inequalities between men and women we have seen how much effort has been, throughout Republican history. With this article 51 we take a further step forward and I want to stress this, because it is no small thing. Yet we already had Article 3 of the Constitution, which should have already pushed all Republican legislation towards guaranteeing access and removing inequalities. Article 51 not only re-establishes once again the principle that the conditions of equality must be established in access to the elective positions between men and women, but also states that, to this end, the Republic shall promote equal opportunities between women and men by means of appropriate measures. This is the work that has been done, with effort, and I say it by looking at the senators Valeria Valente and Valeria Fedeli. Law No 20 of 2016, stems from the fact that nobody here wanted to compress anyone's will, but push, yes, and do so through a national law in application of this principle. I have heard other issues here, then I immediately put the question of principle. Many, in fact, have pointed out that there is a substitute power here and that there are also other regions, for example, with a special statute: well, institutionally, I put a topic to the discussion of all of us: this is a constitutional principle reiterated, because, I repeat, we already had Article 3 of the Constitution and we amended Article 51, saying that we had to intervene. How can a principle carved between the founding values of the Republic and our Constitution not be applied in a part of our country? How can we establish a legal unity that applies to Lazio but also to Sicily? I also say this to Senator Julia Unterberger, with absolute respect for special autonomy, special statutes and their constitutional protection, because the issue is there and I believe that this will be the second episode that we will have to face, and it is an issue that the representatives of the self-government should also address. We must work together on this issue, because the question, from the constitutional point of view, arises, as Senator Conzatti also recalled. This also applies to other principles: some constitutional principles cannot meet a barrier posed by special autonomy. The issue must be dealt with at all costs. Without wishing to make any kind of operation, it is a debate, even a constitutional one, which is absolutely serious and important. It also applies to other principles, of which we will have a way and an opportunity to speak. Then there is another theme. In all these years we have made a lot of progress, including from the legislative point of view, but it remains the issue of polis, which is the real context in which we find discrimination. The real crystal roof, which has difficulty being broken, is in the polis. That is the point, which we have always fought against in recent years. The tools to create cracks in the crystal roof are fundamental and must last forever: it is the eternal debate that we have. The countries of Northern Europe, which we always mention, had a phase in which they were put into the field of instruments, which we can call unequal law, that is, positive actions, which they no longer need today. The current situation was not born out of nothing, but from those rules, which have allowed us to achieve absolutely important objectives. The rapporteur mentioned, for example, the experience of the introduction of dual preference in the City Council of Naples, which has produced important results. When I was elected senator in 2001, there was 7.8 percent of women in this House and I believe that this percentage was almost lower than the Constituent. What's changed? In 2003 there was the constitutional change and also in the electoral law the rules on alternation began to be inserted, of course, with the blocked lists, which present other problems from other points of view, but which have produced a different result. The proportion of women present in this House today, which is 35% and we still think is absolutely insufficient, has been produced by these positive actions and by the instruments that have allowed women to have access. 2001 is not far away, that legislature is not far away, we are talking about a few years ago, yet in this House there was 7.8% of women and if today we have reached the result today it is thanks to all the instruments that have been used and that we all hope to have to apply for a short time, because then this will become automatic. There is, however, another problem, especially in the system of preferences, which we know and which we cannot fail to see, due to the fact that the man leader makes the agreement preferably with three, four or five women, who find themselves making water carriers, or preference. This, however, concerns the role of politics and the responsibility, not only of individual candidates, but also of the political forces and the lists that compete. This is a huge cultural and political problem, but it is here that we need the strength of politics, of the political-cultural battle and also the strength of the instruments. 12.10 p.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). I will conclude by saying that replacement power is what it takes. We can say that perhaps we would have hoped it had been applied in the past - absolutely yes - but that today there is absolutely fundamental, for what we have been facing in all these years. Certainly majority and opposition give themselves the exchange rate and create a mechanism of rejection, because the norm perhaps must be approved by a regional council where there are 95%, 97%, in some cases we have also had 100%, of men. So let us not forget that there is no cross-cutting agreement between the majority and the opposition to reject any possibility of female intrusion. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u83	Colleagues, since Minister Hope is present in the Chamber for information, but there would still be forty minutes of speeches in explanation of vote, if each of those who still have to speak for the Group speaks for five minutes, we can conclude; otherwise, I interrupt and move to information. You tell me, because otherwise I can't do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u86	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, as far as we are concerned - I am speaking on behalf of my Group, because I did not have the opportunity to speak with the other group leaders - I would be about to move forward, to reduce the explanations of vote to five minutes each and to conclude this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u87	Senator Fedeli, who has given willingness to intervene for five minutes, still has to intervene; Forza Italia, with Senator Vitali, also for three minutes; also the League for five and so also Senator Dell'Olio. Colleagues, if you do not want me to interrupt to leave the Minister to speak, we apologize to him and continue with the explanations of vote. If there are no objections, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u90	FADELI (PD). Mr President, while trying to stay in the five minutes, I would like to say that today, with the vote on this decree-law, which I hope will be in favour of unanimity, we are able to make a further step forward in a long history that this Senate has, especially in recent years. From this point of view, I too would have preferred not to have to get to what has been proposed, i.e. a replacement choice compared to that of the Regional Council of Puglia, but that is what it is and I take note of it. First of all, I want to thank Senator Valente for the timely presentation she has made of the measure, in merit and in history, which should never be forgotten, because we have so many passages behind us. However, I would also like to thank Prime Minister Conte and the Government, and in particular Minister Boccia, because it has not been and is not easy to build this solution in time to allow women, movements and democrats who have fought in Italy and in Puglia. [[Applause.]] Can I say that I want to dedicate this vote to Apulian women and men, who this time will be able to best express their potential, their abilities and their talents? [[Applause.]] It is a battle that we have shared, because the issue then concerns the rules and an aspect of political culture that I consider important: we are implementing Article 3 of the Constitution (on the basis of which the first discrimination that must be overcome, because it is cross-cutting to all the others, is that of sex, which concerns women, which are half the population), but also Articles 51 and 117, which promote and want to promote the participation of women. I think that this is an important element of promotion and I would like to say in turn a concept that accompanies me over the years: we are not talking about quotas and anyone who does so wants to continue to make minority women culturally. [[Applause.]] We are talking about anti-discrimination rules, which are precisely those laid down in the principles of our Constitution: to discriminate against one of the sexes, making them under-represented, means to commit a violation of human rights and certain principles. This is also a point of political culture which in this House I would prefer to continue to say, rather than hearing more about gender quotas or pink quotas, which bear witness to a culture that is penalising women. I come to the second concept that I want to talk about briefly in these five minutes. There are rules; we have come to this choice, of course strongly supported by the Democratic Party - which, moreover, has anti-discrimination rules and norms in its statute; I want to tell those who invite us to reflect on our limits - that there are certainly - but at least we do not - which concerns an opportunity for the policy change of Puglia and the other regions that will have to follow, in my opinion, in change. The great lesson, in fact, that comes to us from the constituent Mothers and from all the work that we have subsequently done is that, if you are not there, you do not change policies. If women are not in the places of political decision, it means that the policies chosen do not respond to the needs, rights and needs of half the population of this country and, in this case, of Puglia. You have to be there to count and change. This is the great theme that concerns women and men in Puglia and Italy. It was said that it is a theme that concerns democratic quality but also the concept of sharing political choices, choices made in the field of work, parenting and personal choices. The word "sharing" is the big issue behind this choice that we make today. The Democratic Party will vote in favour, but it immediately feels committed to going beyond today's choice because there is the issue of harmonization of all the rules that govern the election of the Regional Councils, but also the issue that concerns all the rules of all the Regions, including the Special Statute. If they are constitutional principles, in fact, if they are a value of governance of politics and, together, of sharing, it means that this concerns everyone because it is an improvement that serves Puglia and the other regions that have not yet done so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u93	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity to talk again about facilitating women's access to politics. Personally, my idea is not monopoly within my Group and sees women worthy of finding channels of facilitation to bring them closer to the exercise of parliamentary, political and managerial law in public bodies. I, however, am opposed to quotas and in 2011 voted against the law that instituted them because I consider them humiliating and mortifying for women, who do not need fences or reserves, but only opportunities. I would therefore have been in favour of that rule if it had been planned for a certain time to give the possibility of a cultural change and of mentality in our country, but not a rule that fences and restricts women forever in a fence. Today we are talking about gender equality, which is another thing and which we share. It gives equal opportunities for both sexes to participate in political life. What we do not share is the instrument used for creating a dangerous precedent: we intervene on foot together in the electoral matter of exclusive regional competence with a decree-law, which is not provided for in our Constitution except in exceptional cases and where there has been consultation. In this case, there was no conciliation because it was a supplementary intervention to allow the Region of Puglia to see the adoption of double preference as opposed to an inability of that Region which is not of the last hour but lasts for fifteen years, during which the central-left governments were not able to vote an electoral law that guaranteed gender equality in the expression of the vote. We are, therefore, absolutely in agreement on the substance; we are opposed to the method. It is not a fair method, it has not taken into account the loyal cooperation between the institutions, and this puts us in a position to abstain in the final vote. It remains a bitterness, that of preaching well and rocketing badly. Finally, I should like to ask one question: what is the point of establishing gender equality in the expression of the vote if there is not a rule that guarantees the presence of women on the lists? We know, in fact, that once gender equality is guaranteed in the vote, the lists can be composed of a single sex and there is absolutely no foreclosure in the presentation of the same. This is a mystery: we want to absolve our conscience, but then we do not create the actual tools for realizing the participation of women. Mr President, I am voting for my Group's abstention on this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u96	RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the substance of the measure that we are examining, I would like to stress with force and determination that the League has demonstrated on several occasions, and unequivocally, to take into account the primary role that women play in politics, understood as the continuous search for the common good, in compliance with what is recognised by the Constitutional Charter. This is testified - just to mention a few examples - by Lucia Borgonzoni's candidacy for the leadership of the Emilia-Romagna Region, that of Donatella Tesei - current and excellent governor of the Umbria Region - or by Susanna Ceccardi's candidacy for the presidency of the Tuscany Region. [[Applause.]] It is very clear, therefore, that the problem of the measure in question is not and will never be its purpose, but it is the legal instrument that the Government has chosen to use. The important issue is that you have no respect for the Constitution, and we, and the vast majority of Italian citizens, are simply not getting used to this. The government has been lagging behind the imminent electoral deadline which - let us remember - was postponed to September due to the emergency Covid. In fact, the information of the Minister for Regional Affairs at the Council of Ministers dates back to 25 June 2020, while the warning to the Region of Puglia is of 23 July 2020 and contained a request for adaptation of the regional electoral legislation within five days. However, this implies a breach of the law which provides that the Region must be given a reasonable period to comply. Only if this term is disregarded is the government allowed to intervene, but always respecting the principles of subsidiarity and loyal cooperation. Even if intervention is necessary in absolute urgency, the Council of Ministers should take the necessary measures to be communicated to the State-Regions Conference. Article 120 of the Constitution, therefore, allows the Government to intervene, but not in the manner and above all in the form used today. Indeed, the procedure provided for in the law leads us to believe that the decree-law is not the legal instrument that can be used, as the conditions for the urgent decree of Article 77 of the Constitution are lacking. To this it must be added that Article 15 (2) (b) of Law No 400 of 1988 states that the Government cannot provide by decree-law in the matters referred to in Article 72 of the Constitution, among which are the electoral matters. The Government, therefore, felt that it had to intervene urgently in a matter of regional competence, thereby weakening the principle of loyal collaboration between the State and territorial autonomy, in fact exercising a clause of supremacy that is not present in our legal system to date. [[Applause.]] All this appears as a clear testimony to the Government's attempt to heal serious shortcomings of the Council and the Apulian Regional Council led by Michele Emiliano. [[Applause.]] It must be remembered that five years ago, in the election campaign, Governor Emiliano promised, among other things, that the first intervention of his Government would be aimed at modifying the regional electoral law, inserting immediately the double gender preference. [[Applause.]] Today, after years, we are here with regret to note that that promise, like unfortunately others, was only electoral propaganda and the confidence that women had placed in that promise was betrayed. Therefore, not only the representation of women among the PD ranks in the Apulian Regional Council is scarce, if not almost non-existent, but throughout the consiliature the left majority has failed to conform the regional law to the principles of the national order. [[Applause]] This is to certify in fact the inadequacy in this, as in other areas, of the outgoing government of the Puglia Region, while the Apulian citizens deserve more and deserve more. In an attempt to heal the failure of President Emiliano, of his Junta and of his majority, who for five years remained guiltyly inert, comes today a state intervention that imposes by decree-law to the Region the double preference of gender in the lists, little less than two months after the holding of the regional elections and even a few days after the filing of the nominations, through an improper use of constitutional dictates, constituting an unpleasant and dangerous precedent of which objectively did not feel the need. The most malicious might see behind this government's tight-legged intervention a purely propagandistic aim not to lose the women's vote. Time will give us answers, but as the wise always teach us, thinking evil is a sin, but often guesses. In view of the above, I declare the vote of abstention to the measure of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u99	[[Brusio]] Please, Senator Romeo, Senator Pellegrini, I don't understand all this love that emerges between the benches. OIL (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, 1946 is the year in which the Italian Republic was born, but it is also the year in which, on 10 March, women voted for the first time. The 1946 that I remember here has nothing to do with the years: it is the number of amendments that presented Brothers of Italy to the Regional Council at the time of the adoption of the law amending the Apulian regional law and introduced the dual preference of gender; non-obstructional amendments, according to the leader of the Brothers of Italy Zullo. I read the quote: "No obstructionism; but our concern is that amendments may be inserted (...) that expose the law in itinerantly at risk of unconstitutionality (...). We therefore withdraw all the amendments and simply vote on the draft law as formulated in the Commission. But to what amendments at risk of unconstitutionality were they referring, since it was the adoption of a law referring to Law No 20 of 2016? Perhaps the only amendment that was frightening was the one presented by the 5 Star Movement, which introduced the non-eligibility of lists with more than 60% of the same sex members. [[Applause]] Then an amendment of Forza Italia was voted, clearly aimed at blocking the candidacy of a collaborator of Emiliano who declared to run with the list to his support, amendment then passed by secret ballot also with part of the majority (I believe about ten votes). Then the rest is a bad page in the political history of Apulia: a sitting first interrupted after the vote on this amendment; then the majority, before voting on another amendment, requires a suspension; then, at about one and a half at night, we return to the Chamber, but the majority requires not to continue, the amendment is withdrawn and magically skips the quorum. We're here today... [[Brusio]] Ma'am, I can't talk...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u100	Actually, there's too much buzz. Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u101	OIL (M5S). We are here today debating and approving a bill that should not have existed, because it is unacceptable and inconceivable that in 2020 we are still discussing introducing gender equality into access to elected posts, almost as if it were a concession. The government had to intervene in two times: first in a soft way, simply making a warning to intervene to the Puglia Region and then, when the Puglia Region did not intervene, with this bill, recalling to articles 3 and 51 of the Constitution, indeed using the dictation of article 120, which perhaps is the first time that is used in republican history. Some people see this as an abuse, an overwhelmment by Parliament towards the regions, but I say that it is shameful that, because of problems of mere left and right political need, they have failed to fulfil their political duty to respect the laws and the Constitution. [[Applause]] Law No 20 of 2016 simply told the Region that it had not yet adapted that it had to insert the double gender preference and the inadmissibility of the lists that exceed 60 percent of candidates of the same sex. That's all he said and that's what the Movimento 5 Stars in Puglia asked for, and that's also what Article 117 of the Constitution says, namely that regional laws remove any obstacles that prevent the full equality of men and women in social, cultural and economic life and promote equal access for women and men to elected positions. But that responsibility is not all to the right, because also President Emiliano in 2015, just elected, said that the first measure would be to modify the regional law and introduce the dual preference of gender; only that he never did, entrenching himself behind the fact that the Regional Council is sovereign, because he has never scheduled the discussion of this change, in fact forgetting that he had a majority because the Apulian regional electoral law assigns 60% of the majority prize. We understand, therefore, that in Puglia the only one that has nothing to do with this mess is the Movimento 5 Stars, whose amendment referred to Law No 20 of 2016. [[Applause]] Among other things, remember that in 2015 the MoVimento 5 Stars presented a list with 46 percent of women, who in Emiliano's support lists were 33 percent, in those of Poli Bortone - supported by Forza Italia, Salvini and Liberali - with 30 percent and those of Schittulli - now an ally of Emiliano but first opponent - only 13 percent. The Movimento 5 Stars did not and does not need a law to assert gender equality, it does of course. Who needs it are the other political groups, who may find it difficult to run for women, certainly in Puglia. [[Applause]] The only reason, then, is the fear of men losing their seats. But we are now approving this decree-law, which is a monk of an important part, namely the inadmissibility of the lists with more than 60% of the same-sex candidates. The question is: why have we not tabled amendments to this effect, why has it not been foreseen from the outset? If a second after the approval of the decree-law came out a joint statement of the three forces of the right who instead of standing side by side with the Government claimed that the institutions were bending to the interests of a political party and that they risked to compromise the free exercise of the vote in Puglia, asking that on these situations the President of the Republic, the question is: why have they not thought about it before and have made an irresponsible obstructionism with amendments that had nothing to do with the double preference. The answer is simple: perhaps the not saying is that if the inadmissibility of lists that do not comply with the 60-40% report had been included, they would have blown up the elections. There is actually something that needs to be said, Mr President. The Apulian electoral law provides a sanction for those who do not respect that relationship, but the fact is that it was not applied in 2015 because all political groups were below that threshold, except the Movimento 5 Stars. That is why we approve of this law today, but it is the first step in making Puglia better and that is why I declare the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u102	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u105	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I steal 30 seconds to certify my abstention vote, because my tablet went out while I was voting, so I wanted to specify that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u106	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Health on the content of the measures to implement containment measures to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I always consider the presence in Parliament an opportunity to share the strategy that the government is putting on the ground on the Coronavirus affair and above all an opportunity to receive ideas, ideas and suggestions also in view of the next choices that we will have to take from here to 10 August. The democratic dialectic, even if sometimes harsh, I am convinced that it makes the country stronger in facing such a difficult passage and also for this reason I believe that we must never lose sight of the reasons for a confrontation: what is the state of the art? How is Italy doing today in terms of health care? In my information, I would like to start from a few issues which I consider to be very important and which have been formalised in recent days by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), then by the main European institute that follows the evolution of the epidemic in our continent. This centre has indicated the incidence rate of 100,000 inhabitants in the last fourteen days and in Italy the number is 5.7 cases, in Germany 8.4 cases, in the United Kingdom 12.6 cases, in France 19 cases, in Croatia 25.3 cases, in Spain 53.6 cases, in Romania 75.1 cases. These are numbers that I think explain better than many other words the work done in these months and the situation in which our country is located, in a context that is anything but simple, because in the world it is definitely the most difficult time. We proceed globally with about one million new cases per week, there are now 19 million cases globally and the number of deaths has exceeded 700,000. These are numbers that require no comment for their drama and strength. Even in Europe, in our part of the world, the situation is far from peaceful: just look at the Balkans, where the numbers are absolutely worrying and growing and this has also led us to adopt some drastic measures of containment, with prohibition of entry and transit from some of these countries; however, in recent days the situation is complicated also in some very important European countries. I would like to mention, among them, Spain, which in yesterday's day reports almost 1,800 cases, the highest number since the most intense phase of March and April. What then is the truth? The truth, if we look up for a moment, is that today Italy is objectively placed better than other countries. This is an objective fact that we are also recognized internationally. It's a result of all people. I want to be very clear on this point: it is a result of the whole country, not of a part: it is the result of the Government, it is the result of the Regions, it is the result of Parliament. It is a result, first of all, of our National Health Service, of which we must be proud. [[Applause]] It is a result of our doctors; it is a result of our nurses; it is a result of our health workers, who have done extraordinary work and to whom, without rhetoric, we will never stop expressing our gratitude. In this regard, allow me just for a moment to thank all the Parliamentary Groups of the Senate, precisely because yesterday an important vote was taken and the law against aggression was passed: a rule of great civilization, unanimously approved to the Chamber of Deputies and then to the Senate of the Republic, which I believe gives a right signal, a signal from a country that wants to take care of those who take care of us every day. Of course these results have been made possible by the behavior of our fellow citizens, which has been extraordinary and which we must remember in every step. Again, a simple truth: none of us, at any level, had an instruction manual. We were the first Western country hit after China; we didn't have it in Rome, the presidents didn't have it and the regional councillors in the Regions, the doctors, the nurses, the hospital operators didn't have it. And yet the Republican institutions ruled. So, I think this should be a shared assessment of our national community, of our Parliament: the Republican institutions have held up. Is all this enough? Is that enough? The data we see and what we've done so far tell us we're safe? Can they tell us that the battle is definitely won? I don't think so. My opinion is very clear and very clear. I think we are much better off than we were in March, April and May, and I think Italy is much better off than many other countries in the world and Europe, but I don't think the battle is won, I don't think we can feel safe. I have already had the opportunity to say in this important Chamber that we are out of the storm - and this is a truth - but we are not yet in a safe harbor. We therefore need to keep the level of attention still high, to keep the guard high, because we have recovered so much ground but still there are problems, there are pitfalls, so we need the utmost caution. After two very difficult months, those of March and April in a particular way, the two months of lockdown, as is known we started, starting from May 4, a long, gradual, prudent season of reopenings. We must continue exactly on this path. The first reopenings, as you will remember, those of May 4, have concerned the heart of our production sector: industry, manufacturing, construction, wholesale. Then on May 18th - even in this case you will remember - we restarted other fundamental activities of our country: I think about the services of the person, the restaurant, the bars. Again, on June 3, we took a further step, reopening the borders between the Regions and also with all European countries. In short, it is a path that a little at a time, with great prudence and graduality, has led us to a season of reopening. To date, we can make a positive assessment of this first phase of openness. We were worried - certainly - because at the time of reopening and restarting, contacts between people and the possibility of restarting the infection increase. My opinion is that the monitoring system that we have built, and that in particular the Higher Institute of Health has put in place together with the Ministry of Health, in very close coordination with the Regions, has enabled us to assess step by step the impact of these reopenings. In fact, the numbers tell us that the curve, despite the reopenings, at least for a first significant phase continued to bend on the right side. Now, with the same clarity, the data tell us that for a few weeks we have been in a phase of substantial stability. This tells us that the virus still circulates, that there are clusters and outbreaks that often emerge in our country, but that our monitoring system and the prevention system that we have organized in every territory put us in a position to intervene. We will need to increase our resilience, to be quick and fast, to be able to detect these outbreaks immediately, to isolate positive cases and to intervene with great determination when they arise. I think that this monitoring system based on twenty-one criteria - which I am not returning to - has been one of the points that has allowed us to manage the epidemic in recent months. I would like to recall in this House that last Monday, three days ago, we presented the results of the seroprevalence study conducted in our country by the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with Istat and the Italian Red Cross, which I thank for the extraordinary work that has been put on the field. In the end, we have obtained a positive response from over 65,000 people: it is the highest data at European level; there is no other serological analysis made with a scientifically reliable sample (ours was built by the National Institute of Statistics). These first data we have obtained, and which we will make available to the national and international scientific community, allow us to have a further photograph of what has happened in these months. Again, the numbers are clear and clear. 2.5 percent of the people in our country have met the virus and have developed antibodies in their blood. It is a number that, projected on an absolute value, leads us to a 1,482,000 people. The data from this investigation are very detailed. The most significant one, which I think has a more significant value, concerns the geographical distinction: it is not a surprise for us, but it is quite clear that there is a huge diversity in the impact that the virus and the contagion have had in the different areas of our country. The most affected region, as we already knew, is Lombardy (7.5 percent), with dramatically high peaks in particular in the Province of Bergamo (24 percent) and in the Province of Cremona (19 percent). Instead, there are much lower data in other regions. In particular, I would like to remind you that in the Southern regions there is always an average that is below one percent (no South region reaches one percent), and the two islands are even 0.3%. This data tells us that the measures implemented and the rigour of the measures put in place have allowed to stop the virus where it had already arrived in a very significant way, that is, in the geographical areas where the impact has been harder and has arrived early on in the temporal plane. Consider also an element that I do not consider irrelevant: Spain, the other great European country that did a similar survey to ours, although with slightly reduced numbers, indicates a seroprevalence percentage of 5%. We are at 2.5 percent and this is also a fact that makes clear the terms of an impact that there was. On the basis of the assessments I have made so far, we can reaffirm what I think is now clear, namely that there is no zero risk and that we are called to continue this process of reopening (because we will continue on this path), in full awareness of the things I have said so far and, therefore, of this line of prudence, wisdom and caution that I believe has positively brought us here. What are the three fundamental rules that remain decisive for us and that we absolutely must keep in the phase that awaits us (in August and I believe also in the first autumn recovery)? These are three essential rules, recognized by the entire international community without any exception: the use of masks, which in our country are mandatory in closed places open to the public; the distance of at least one meter; the frequent washing of hands. These are three essential behavioral rules that we must absolutely try to consolidate in the behavior of our fellow citizens. The whole international community shares the fact that these three rules are truly decisive in this phase of coexistence. I say it this way, with great clarity and clarity: let us not divide ourselves on these three rules, which must be shared heritage of the whole country. There is no political issue here; there is no left, right or otherwise on these three rules, because they are three essential rules to continue with caution a re-opening process which I think is absolutely essential. The last order I signed on Saturday, August 1st basically proposes these three essential rules. The order has then been declined on the matter of transport, but it is generic and reaffirms these three fundamental rules that we will also report as an essential basis of the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. It is clear that other activities will open; we continue this path. If we are solid on these three fundamental principles and we share them and if, in this harmony with the country, we manage to make live these three rules as those that we need until we have more solid solutions of a medical nature (I think about the vaccine and the cures), we can continue this path of reopening. We will also do this with the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, since the idea is to try to restart some of the activities that have so far been suspended. I am thinking, for example, of the trade fair activities (which are of great importance for our country) and of the cruise ships (which also represent an important piece of the economic world of our country) that can start again, but in full compliance with these rules and protocols that our technical-scientific Committee has validated and put in place. These three rules are constraints that cause slight restrictions, but it is clear that if we compare them to the lockdown phase that we have experienced, it is quite clear that we are in a different season and that we continue to pay a price that puts us in the condition to continue this process of reopening within the season of coexistence with the virus. Autumn will be a season that we will have to face with these rules and with the utmost care. I would like to recall in this Chamber of the Senate, where I was asked in particular by a question from Senator Romeo and the other Senators of the Northern League Group, that in these hours we are completing the general guidelines for the resumption of October. This request had arrived and there has been a long work of the Higher Institute of Health and the Ministry of Health. The document, which arrived yesterday at the Technical and Scientific Committee and which we will arrive within a few hours to the Italian Regions, will provide the horizon with which to face the phase of recovery. It was a request somehow arrived. There has been a long work of the Higher Institute of Health and the Ministry of Health. This work was delivered yesterday to the CTS and produced a document that we will arrive, within a few hours, to the Italian Regions that will provide the horizon with which to face the phase of recovery. It was a request from this Parliament that I undertook to respond positively and I am pleased to be able to give this information today. [[Applause]] In these months I believe that we have built a positive relationship, as it should be, between science and politics. I believe very much in this positive relationship, while respecting each other's differences and mutual autonomy. There is no doubt that it is politics that has to choose, but I am deeply convinced that politics can choose better if it has - let us say this - the ability to listen, to dialogue and to understand the scientific evidence that can come to us every day from our scientists. I think the policy is stronger, so let me say that the work of the Scientific Technical Committee, also on this level, on the security protocols that we are building, is very important, and here again let me use this information to say that the Civil Protection Department of the Presidency of the Council has already delivered the minutes to those who have requested it and that we will continue exactly on this line. [[Applause]] Transparency, as far as I am concerned, has been a fundamental rule from the outset that we have given ourselves and we will continue to regard it as such. It is a value that we absolutely do not want to give up. I quickly add three points to the information: first, the school has been the subject of numerous debates and I have had the opportunity to say that we will feel the lockdown permanently closed in our country only on the day when all schools of every order and grade, without differences and without distinction, will be able to reopen. Closing schools has been, as far as I am concerned, the most difficult choice to make. Unfortunately, it was an indispensable choice. It also explains the numbers of which I have tried to reason and the differences between us and other countries of Europe and the world, but it is clear that we will have to start again in September. I confirm that the Government's intention is very clear on this point: the schools will reopen and reopen all. Our goal is for them to reopen safely. [[Applause]] This morning the security protocol was signed between the Minister of Education and the social forces and we believe that this is another step forward in this process. On schools we are working to restore a more organic relationship between the universe of health and the universe of school. This structured organic relationship has existed in the history of our country. In 1961 a rule was passed that introduced school medicine into our system. This rule was lost in the 1990s, in a season of cuts, a season of austerity in which the contraction of public spending had the effect, probably, of breaking this bond. Now, I don't think we have to go back exactly to a model of the past, but the basic theme of an organic, not episodic, structured relationship between the departments of prevention of health companies in our districts and school complexes and institutions is particularly important and is particularly important at this time, because we must not leave our teachers and our principals alone. If there is a health issue, it is necessary that those who have competence in this area give a hand and stand by our principals and our teachers to manage the matter. Secondly, as far as vaccines are concerned, I would like to use this information to share a further battle, a challenge in which our country is firmly involved and which I consider particularly strategic. My opinion is that a safe, sure and clearly validated vaccine with all the scientific canons can put us in a position to finally win this battle. Our country is investing with all the energies it has in a challenge that, of course, is not the challenge of a country, it is not the challenge of a continent but it is the challenge of the whole world right now. I have already informed you of the alliance for vaccines, which Italy has signed with France, Germany and the Netherlands. This alliance was the driving force behind the European Commission's vaccine initiative. We signed a very important first agreement with Astrazeneca. Clearly, today we are talking about a vaccine candidate, but this agreement will allow us to have, if this vaccine candidate passes all the tests, the first doses by the end of 2020. This vaccine candidate, which today seems to be the one later in terms of time, is a vaccine candidate that has been studied, processed and designed at Oxford University. However, I would like to remind you that the viral vector, which is a fundamental part of this plant, is produced at the Irbm company in Pomezia. So, there's also a piece of our country. And the blasting of this same vaccine, produced by Astrazeneca, will take place, for all European doses, at the site of the Catalent of Anagni. This means that Italy is not watching. Italy is at the forefront. Italy is inside this game, which we hope will give us, within a few weeks, a result. [[Applause]] I am, of course, very careful. We're talking about a vaccine candidate. Even if we have a contract that says that it will come, if it goes well, already at the end of the year, it is still a vaccine candidate. The magazine Lancet, which is one of the leading scientific journals at international level, reported a study on phase 1 and 2 of this Astrazeneca Oxford-Anagni Pomezia vaccine, according to which, basically, phase 1 and 2 had very encouraging results. Phase 3, which is under way, is a phase that should have been done by everyone in Europe. However, when the contagion curve in Europe fell, it was moved to Brazil, South Africa and other parts of the world. Our hope is that, in the shortest possible time, we can get as encouraging news as those that have already been released by the magazine Lancet. Still on the vaccines. In addition to Astrazeneca, with the European Commission we are working to close contracts with all the other large pharmaceutical companies that are at work. There is a small group of the European Commission and Italy is within this small group precisely because it is part of the first alliance of vaccines with Germany, France and the Netherlands. We will try, in the next few hours, at the level of the European Commission, to close many more contracts, because, as soon as one of these companies should give us a positive news, we will be in a position to immediately take advantage of the vaccine in our country. I'll add one more thing about vaccines, because I think it's relevant. There is an all-Italian vaccine, put on the field by ReiThera, a reality of Lazio, a reality of our country, also important. In this case, the in vitro and animal testing phase has been completed and the human testing phase has begun, which will take place at the Spallanzani Institute in Rome and at the Rossi Policlinico in Verona. This is an exclusively Italian vaccine and it is a pride of our country to be able to count a vaccine exclusively ours, which is started in a path that we hope can be positive. As a final point, I want to speak for just a moment about the decree-law that we are discussing these hours. Within this decree there is a reply to Question No 3-01834, tabled in this Chamber by the Brothers of Italy Group. As you know, the months of Covid-19 have been difficult months for all other pathologies. For three months the country has been concentrated almost exclusively on the Covid-19 and our health facilities, hospital and non-hospital, have concentrated the vast majority of their energies to face this enemy, who was our main opponent. It was about saving lives and it could only be so. The consequence is that a whole series of performances have been suspended, postponed, and we are in a situation where we already had a significant weight in terms of waiting lists and now, unfortunately, as the weeks pass, this weight has become even less bearable. I have proposed to the Government, in particular to the Minister of Economy and Finance, that in this decree we can identify resources, equal to half a billion euros, for that extraordinary plan, which was requested in the question of Brothers of Italy and which I think is very useful and important: half a billion euros so that our National Health Service can, in the coming months, recover medical visits, screening, surgery and diagnostic performance, which in these weeks of Covid-19 unfortunately we have not managed to face. I think this is a good news too. [[Applause]] , which goes in the right direction and which testifies to the commitment of the Government and Parliament in this situation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u108	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Health. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u109	Mr President, Minister, we have become friends now, since we have been confronted repeatedly in this House. Minister, I must say, as has already been said, that beyond the cultural roots, which divide us but belong to us, because we come from afar, it is difficult not to approve and not appreciate its cut, its grip, its way of setting the reasoning, compared to a government that is told me of "quaquaraquà" (I do not think of any other term). In short, she silences, does and tells a part of what she does, along with her undersecretary and colleague Sileri, while others worry about doing press conferences and wandering behind the likes, posts and fake news. This is serious for us and so we appreciate it. As you can see, even from the Lega Group sometimes there are applauses, which will force Mr Candiani to change his speech: now he must throw it out and make it all new again. Beyond the lines, Minister, we appreciate your approach to Parliament. With regard to this, you come to the House to ask us for ideas, ideas and suggestions. It confirms that we are surrounded, because unfortunately this is the reality of the facts, so much so that the Spanish friends are in the midst of the storm, that we lived a few months ago. Obviously this does not reassure us, when we open up the summer season, tourism and borders, which of course are permeable and must be. Minister, you tell us about a constant monitoring system, but I have to start detailing this. The monitoring system to which it refers is, unfortunately, still a system that pursues symptoms and febrile manifestation. You are well aware that if there is no fever, the swab is generally not made. So we are still in the first phase, in the first level of monitoring and mapping of the phenomenon, through symptoms. There is a fact that has been evident from the survey on seroprevalence, which you tell us has been useful: in my opinion it was a purely statistical exercise, so much so that even the Istat placed the threshold of the 150,000 cases tested, in order to have an appreciable result, while we had to record - of this allows us to say that we had been easy prophets - that not even half of the subjects involved accepted an examination, that because of its invasiveness could only be problematic. That result, Minister, as you know perfectly well, tells us that the incidence of the virus on the Italian population was about six or seven times greater than the incidence of symptoms, with about 1.5 million cases estimated. With regard to this, Minister, it is quite clear that, continuing to trace the symptom, we risk leaving in the streets a huge presence of viruses, of which we do not know the infectious and viral charge, but which must continue to worry us. In fact, the three watchwords that we recommend and share, that is mask, washing hands and distance, are now like three other commandments (the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth), that we add to the first ten: they are fine, but let's also remember the three pillars that suggests that Organization quite useless, but that on this could instead be consistent, namely tracking, treatment and testing, to understand where the virus is. In this regard, the survey of seroprevalence in my opinion and we do not believe that it has been largely up to the premises and above all the costs; the Immuni app has been lost and we do not know what happened to it; the tests of the school, in turn, what happened to them? The Arcuri phenomenon came out saying, "We're going to knock the whole school down"; very well, where is it? Forgive me, Minister, but when do we do these tests, since in August we go to the sea and in September we return to school? In addition to the need to test the staff, teacher and not, of the school, when we are going to reopen - because that is a necessity, which we fully share - there is in fact to provide a shield for the health staff, which I demonstrated yesterday, because aggression is not only of the virus, but unfortunately we must also expect a problem of legal action against the school leadership, if there were a recurrence of infection in the school environment. We had proposed an amendment to this effect, of which Mr Iannone was the first signatory, and we recommend that, in one of the many measures that you will soon bring us, we develop a system of protection for medical and educational staff with regard to the possibility of a criminal problem. The three pillars of the WHO, in my view and in our opinion, still seem neglected, so, Minister, as I said, we like the rhetorical image of the port, but it may not be enough, so that is enough, because sooner or later we will have to reach it. Today you come here to report on government measures that also concern non-health matters, so we have the usual two levels of the problem, the health problem, on which we have discussed and discerned, and the economic and financial one, on income and labour. As for all this, if the Italians on the health side were good - we in turn join in appreciation for our staff at all levels - and understood the message, working correctly at the time of lockdown, on the economic and financial part relating to incomes, the protection of those lost and the lost work, clearly, Minister, there is so much more to do. I realize that you are a part of this at the moment, but we recommend that all your Government pay attention to this second phase of the problem, which in September and October will be all of its damned effects, on which we will not always have to act in terms of buffering and reducing damage. Sometimes we also try to anticipate events and transfer to Italy a vision, a project and a hope of the future. As far as the matter of waiting lists is concerned, I would like to thank Mr Totaro, who put a question on this subject during the last question time. To give an idea of the extent of the phenomenon, just today in Umbria - which, besides being my Region, is the smallest and therefore helps us to describe the problem better - the delay has been quantified: the population on the waiting list is equal to half of the regional one (for a total of almost 400,000 performances, on a population of 800,000 inhabitants). So, ladies and gentlemen, this gives a sense of a phenomenon that can easily be described as dramatic. [[Applause.]] It is quite clear that if Covid does not die - we have now acclaimed him, except for important comorbidities - but one dies of cancer, cardiovascular diseases and a thousand other diseases that, if neglected for such a long time, can determine the non-solving of problems of a medical and health nature. With regard to this, you, Minister, tell us that half a billion are being made available to the regions to act in terms of drying up waiting lists, but you know, as I know, and anyone who deals with health, that the issue of waiting lists is not just about money. In the meantime, it is very well to act with the provision of money, but the Government must also take responsibility for laying down certain rules for, for example, a different involvement of the private sector. There are regions on diagnostics that still keep the private at about 4%. One of them is mine, Umbria. It is quite clear that all this must involve a reorganization of which it would not be bad if the National Government and its Dicastery could dictate the guidelines. I shall end by thanking you for the way you approach it, but recommending, as I have done from the outset, a more protagonist role in the government's action for everything that is happening and will happen in the coming months. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u110	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u111	Mr President, Minister, we are very pleased that you are here today to share and dialogue with Parliament and the Senate on the next steps that the Government will take from here to 10 August. We are happy because, even in this complicated situation, this morning has brought us good news, starting from the transparency of the data of the report of the Technical and Scientific Committee (CTS). Not later than yesterday we had a debate in this House on this matter and we are very pleased that this issue has been unlocked with transparency for all of us, Italian citizens and citizens. The other good news is that this epidemiological investigation, conducted by Istat, Red Cross, Ministry and Higher Institute of Health, is bearing fruit on which we can build subsequent policies. We talked a lot about it when the Senate passed the decree for the epidemiological investigation. This morning and yesterday we were talking about it in the Commission, where we will be happy to deepen the issue with you, with Istat and with the Red Cross, just in order to understand how on this basis we can base our policies, starting from the data on asymptomatics and on who has developed antibodies. It is, therefore, essential. The data you reported at the beginning of your speech about the European Union naturally comfort us. They have to make us use all the care if the countries around have a higher number of people infected. We need to be very careful about this. They tell us that we did, as you recalled, in Italy a very serious and rigorous lockdown. I thank our citizens, the citizens - I agree with what you said - our doctors and the National Health Service. I remember this yesterday in this House and I repeat this today because I believe that we need institutional closeness at the moment. I went personally to the Hospital of the Civil Hospitals in Brescia last Sunday - a structure that was particularly affected - where I was able to see with hand what doctors, nurses, auxiliary staff, hospital cleaners have accomplished, with what sacrifice and self-denial. I have noticed above all how much competence, information and experience in the field have accumulated - also this is the excellence of the structures of our National Health Service - to be schooled in other European countries. In fact, there have been continuous exchanges of information because we had the epidemic a little before the other European countries; therefore, the professionalism of our health system is now also able to transfer experiences not only within the national territory, but on a global basis. I fully share your words on prudence, Minister. That is what we must now transfer to the country. So, still cautious at this stage, coexistence with the virus and reopenings. These are the three points on which we move, all of us having responsibility for the delicacy of this moment. You spoke of harmony with Italian citizens and citizens: all of us politicians must make a huge effort; there are no political colors about this - I fully agree - because we can be in tune with the Italian people to instill respect, responsibility for these three rules: mask, distance and washing of hands. We must all make an educational effort in relation to this issue in the messages that we send and in the behaviors that we assume in order to transfer, above all, to our young people, the sense of respect and responsibility. From this terrible epidemic we have all learned that we are not only responsible for our health, but for that of the most fragile people and especially our elderly. Minister, you spoke of an organic relationship with the school. At this stage, in order to keep together the three nodes (prudence, coexistence and reopening) we must keep together health, work, school and transport. What is the task of politics in my view today? To ensure that coexistence with the virus at this stage does not lead to the result of creating further inequalities in our country. Let me give you an example of transport. I share your position, Minister. He has made a transport order; of course, even in local transport, this will affect commuting. In this regard, I think that the government must act with an organic relationship and in tune so that there is no production of inequalities compared to those who cannot. In fact, those who will not be able to move easily, will be able to take advantage of private means, and in this sense I believe that the task of politics is to observe and monitor also the transport plan that in the various territories of our country is preparing. I'm thinking big cities. It is clear that once schools are reopened in Rome, there must be a proper transport plan: of course, we are thinking of staggered revenues, but there must be a very important study. I also think of the mountain areas of the North, we talked about them a few weeks ago: how will the schools reach the children? Basically, we need to equip ourselves for the transport plan, economic policies, and labour policies that they all hold together. What is the risk? We say this in no uncertain terms: that social differences can be exacerbated in the autumn with the consequent creation of anger. We have to prevent this. We were talking about it yesterday; you also mentioned it, Minister. Yesterday we approved this beautiful measure on the safety of health and social workers: now we must make this provision live and equip ourselves, because the more quiet the population is, the more we can guarantee the safety of our doctors and our social workers, the latter with a great role for the most fragile parts of the population. Special attention - we always remember - deserves the issue of families with disabilities, Minister, because there are still many problems of opening up the day centres, residential and semi-residential: this is a fundamental issue. If in this delicate phase we act with responsibility all together, we can manage to get out of this bad epidemic and we must also seize the opportunities and potential that can arise from it and that the Italian people can develop. We must live up to the seriousness and responsibility of the citizens during the lockdown and move forward on this path. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u112	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u113	Minister, we greatly appreciate the work done; not only your style, but the quality of your work and the government. We have already had the opportunity to stress several times how much we share this commitment to coexistence with the virus, which requires prudence and intelligence, avoiding using propaganda on such a delicate subject and calling all of us to consistent behavior. The issue of the virus cannot go through the political debate and the different positions. Its information has made even more evident what colleagues in the opposition can also appreciate. I also appreciate the choices made in the matter of fairs and cruises. We discussed this, Minister, and it is an important point: we are talking about important economic sectors, to the extent that this is rightly the case through the protocols approved by the CTS. We also appreciate the decision to publish the Committee's minutes. I think it was a right and wise choice, precisely because transparency is a fundamental element from the start. Maybe you could avoid yesterday's curtain, but this is another speech and applies to everyone: the same applies to those who did it and the same applies to those who caused that curtain. I would just like to raise two problems: the first is the strengthening of cooperation with the regions. The President of the Republic has said something that I very much agree with, speaking of loyal cooperation. From this point of view the affair of the trains must be overcome in a preventive way, also because it is not that the Covid-19 chooses to take the red arrows or Italo and not to take the regional trains. 13.26 p.m. (Following Errani). Strengthening, therefore, this cooperation for me means not simply seeking the responsibilities of the different levels, but taking on a common responsibility in the loyal collaboration between the Government and the Regions. I say this in relation, above all, to what we have to do and to the very important commitment that, in the recovery, we will all have to move forward, with reference to the investment plan, to the qualitative leap we have to make on territorial health, to the commitment on waiting lists. I welcome the allocation of 500 million to tackle the issue of waiting lists. We know well, however, as Senator Zaffini said, that there is a strategic and structural problem here and I want to say it very clearly, because there are political issues that need to be addressed. We must be careful not to think about tackling the issue of waiting lists with an even more significant process of outsourcing, because this would produce a problem related to the quality, professionalism and prospects of the National Public Health System, which was the only real guarantee we had in the fight against Covid. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, that we are able to discuss these issues explicitly and clearly. Even in this Chamber, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask for a moment of strategic debate on health, which would be very important. This House seems to me to be mature in order to be able to hold this debate and to be able to resolve together some of the problems we have before us and which we had before the Covid-19 and which the Covid has, from this point of view, highlighted in a striking way. That is why I thank you, the Government and the President of the Council for the work you have done. We still have a long way to go and excuse colleagues if I say so, but in the drama of the Covid we must never forget the victims, but we have a historic appointment, yes, for a reform-refoundation of the National Health System that we cannot afford to lose, because perhaps it is more unique than rare. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u114	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u115	Minister for Health, thank you for your presence here today, because these informations have become constant and we are pleased that you have such a direct conversation with Parliament, which we wanted and I note that it is happening very frequently. I appreciate what you have said to us today, and I must say that many of the things you have already said to us, because the article in the New York Times also mentions Italy as an international model. I believe that this is an important satisfaction for our country, for our Government and for Parliament, because in these acts that are always counted we are able to put our hand in order to improve them, as it is right that it is and as we had hoped. I must say that I really appreciate the fact that an important step has been taken in the direction of further approach. The other thing that I owe you with honesty, Minister, because I have heard the media services, is the secrecy of the minutes. You said there would be no problem; it happened today at noon; they are sent directly to the Einaudi Foundation. Therefore, I really must express my appreciation for this too, because it is facts that result in some positions, so we give it further confidence. According to the data that are circulating, unfortunately we are really surrounded by countries that we believe to be up to our standards, such as Germany, France and Spain, but I have to say that Italy behaves much better. This certainly also thanks to the attitude of our citizens, because not everyone goes to the beach without mask or participates in the movida; I have to say that most Italians - and we have to thank them - that instead the mask wears it. We politicians, in fact, must be a model (I see you are holding it, I am talking about it) for our citizens; that is what we must do, whatever our political affiliation is. We ask for sacrifices from our citizens, but let us also do them, because we know how much it costs to carry it all day long; on the other hand, the health care staff brings it all day long, which we will never end by thanking. This is therefore another important fact. The three safety standards you have mentioned have, in my opinion, been consolidated. Let me give you a personal example, thinking about how I felt in my car when there was no requirement for a seat belt, now the first thing I do is fasten it. With the mask it is becoming the same: when I leave the house, the first thing that comes to mind is to ask me if I have the mask and take it. It's becoming an almost everyday habit, one of the gestures we have to do. From this point of view, we have also appreciated everything he has told us about what is being done with the various measures that are coming, I am thinking, among other things, of the one for the extension that is in the House, but also those that will probably arrive in the Senate at the end of August. On these issues, beyond the health aspect, today is the news that according to Istat, even the economies of families are beginning to recover, almost at pre-Covid levels; even if the issue does not directly concern you, Minister, this means that policies have been adopted that have worked. We may also talk to the Minister of Labour about this, because while we are crying everywhere about the integration fund, I consider it necessary and right to do some control, because we find people who work even though they are in the integration fund. This is a step that I think needs to be taken, because it is right for the economy to recover, but it must also be done with acts of confidence; therefore, where someone has abused something, it must be sanctioned, otherwise we do not understand why people who always behave seriously should not have impacts like everyone else. I think it is important to do so, I say it to you but also to the other ministers. On the other hand, I have to say that the transport affair has left us a little disconcerted, because unfortunately, from morning to evening, the most important railway companies have found themselves having to make changes again. Since you say that Parliament must also give you suggestions and help you to improve the conditions, Minister, I believe that the coordination of the deadlines of all the measures put in place is very important in order to avoid bewilderment and, unfortunately, also the fact that our citizens are having to change their plans: we have seen citizens who unfortunately had to cancel journeys, even have been canceled railway runs, so it is a problem that we must anticipate, because everything that happens must be a warning to improve. Our opposition colleagues, too, always urge us to make a plan for the pandemic. I think we're doing this on the basis of our experiences. The model you mentioned earlier, also considered at international level, which keeps track of everything we are doing, is becoming practically a plan for the pandemic to be put in place later. However, Minister, I would like to stress a few things about what we will have to do afterwards. Meanwhile, it's fine that he said that the school starts on September 14th; many Regions have identified this date and my Region, Emilia-Romagna, has already declared it. It is absolutely right: one cannot ignore the fact that our children have to go to school, because it is an important fact, if we want, of semi-normality for them, that they have been imprisoned for all these months. We must acknowledge that they need to have direct interpersonal relationships. Teledidactics can be a help, but it's definitely not the school we want. Obviously we need a greater interaction with the regions, because they are the ones who will have to deal with them. She spoke before transport: school transport is the responsibility of the regions, as is the responsibility of local authorities. We therefore need a greater interaction between these bodies and, of course, we will need funds (but we will make them available). Good also the fact that it reopens to the fairs and the cruises. I'll give you two more important points. It has been pointed out, for example, that training courses in the presence of health workers can also be resumed. We need training. The health care staff was faced with something bigger than anything, because no one had ever had to face an epidemic of this kind, and had to interact with all the changes taking place. We therefore need more training, also in the area of sanitization and everything that happens in our structures. If we do so in the presence - given that health workers have certainly made safety a status - we are also able to improve this aspect. I would also like to highlight another issue. On the vaccine, the agreements you have signed, both nationally and internationally, are fine. I would point out to you, however, a couple of questions. I hope - I think so, because I had some assurances - that clinical trials (Phase 1 and Phase 2 you were talking about) will be conducted on both male and female subjects; in fact, the difference between males and females in the administration of vaccinations has different effects. This distinction is provided by law for trials only and I hope that it will also be made for vaccinations. It is the medicine of gender, which has been inserted with Law No. 3 of 2018. Finally, Minister, I recommend that we keep an eye on the issue not only of the vaccine that is being tested against Covid-19, but also of the influenza vaccine, which will help us avoid confusion with those health conditions which could be interpreted as coronary virus and which instead are influenza. This is another very important issue that we ask you to monitor. For the rest, I am very grateful to you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u116	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Hope. Minister, as some other senators have already told you before me, you always have the grace, the role and the tones, if I may, that lead us to think well of you. This is a compliment that I offer you, believe me, with sincerity (except that I can't tell lies and this is one of my known flaws, as a politician, because it is said that instead politicians usually tell lies). However, today I want to highlight a number of aspects, not only regarding your statements and your information, which concerns only the matters you are dealing with as Minister of Health. However, these are matters which I would not like to talk about right away. What I intend to dwell on now is the exact representation of what you see. You, Minister, are looking around and basically seeing the Senate benches empty. This is a demonstration of how completely ineffective it is, from a purely, and not technically, parliamentary point of view, the function of the information that the Minister must give under the provisions related to Decree-Law No 19, in which it was decided, in order to try to give back centrality to Parliament, a warm cloth. We are pleased to hear it and we are pleased to have news about the state of the art, in particular during this period of medical emergency, among other things extended until the end of October. But it is clear - and we will talk about this - that the cry of sorrow of the Region for which the Group of Forza Italia intended to entrust to me, who am Vice-President of the 1st Commission, the role of intervening today, is as follows: the problem of the relationship between Government and Parliament, between executive power and legislative power remains always central. Parliament's role is unfortunately completely diminished at this stage; it is absolutely ineffective and inconsistent. You come to give us news, which you could also give, as President Conte did during the lockdown period, through press conferences addressing directly to Italian citizens and not therefore to Italian parliamentarians. The problem is always that: the role and centrality of Parliament, unfortunately still under development. In fact, I'll tell you more. What has happened in this period of emergency, in my opinion, can become very dangerous, because when you create the conditions of a precedent, it often happens that this becomes a rule. Minister, since you come from a left-wing party that believes in the division of powers, the centrality of Parliament and the function of politics, especially representative politics, the parliamentary one, this must necessarily make you uncomfortable. In fact, we are only here to listen to it; each of us speaks - we have ten minutes per Group to express our views - but that remains the problem. As you know, a referendum is under way on a suicide decision by this Parliament, namely to cut almost half of the Italian MPs, substantially reducing them to a small group of people chosen by the party secretariats. So as to finally realize the true caste: instead of destroying it, we will make it once and for all [[Applause]] ! We had not succeeded before, we will finally set it up after the reduction of Members. However, this also arises from a clear need, namely to reduce Parliament to a minor point of view. Minister, pay attention to what is happening from lockdown to today. I am sorry that your fellow Minister is not here now for relations with Parliament, because his role will soon be useless. What is the need for a Minister for relations with Parliament? [[Applause]] It just doesn't make sense. It's one of the many jokes. The Minister is right not to be there, because what is the point of the Minister in Parliament for relations with Parliament? It sounds like a pun, but it's the sad reality this country is experiencing. Well, the idea of standing up, however, a bicameralism equal - which should be, yes, strongly reformed - has transformed, by the will of the Government, giving life in fact to a monocameralism. Yes, dear Undersecretary Sileri, who has been watching me, in fact since the lockdown occurred, we proceed with the system of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, before, and of decrees-laws afterwards. You will have noticed what happens with the most significant political measures. The Decree-Law liquidity, the Decree-Law relaunch (as you have defined them) and the Decree-Law simplifications are discussed and amended within one of the two Chambers, after which comes the maxi amendment, with the work done by the Commissions, which is voted. They will remain so, yes and no, ten days to arrive in the second Chamber, which assumes an absolutely useless role. It happened to the Senate: we did not insert a single note both in the liquidity decree and in the decree I raise for the simple reason that everything was done in the Chamber of Deputies. I'll tell you more. The simplification decree has instead been sent to the Senate and assigned to the Constitutional Affairs and Justice Commissions and probably to the Chamber of Deputies (the House to which you belong), Minister, you will not be able to intervene, if you wish to do so, simply as a Member, because you will simply have to vote yes or no (presumum will vote in favour, being a Minister of the present majority), without being able to debate. Even his party and group friends in the House of Deputies will not be able to speak with their amending power. In practice, Members' rights no longer exist. This long premise is at my heart, because I believe in Parliament, in the division of powers and in the system of checks and balances, thanks to which Italy has managed to grow, becoming a true democratic country because our Constitution has been safeguarded. Well, all this, unfortunately, does not happen anymore and my feeling, which is basically also a fear, is that unfortunately this sort of state of emergency is becoming a rule of Parliament's work, also because - let us be frank - one of the majority forces has always believed in the so-called direct democracy - I say well, Mr Sileri? - that is to say, by believing that Parliament is essentially useless and bypassing it, entrusting itself directly to the citizens. This is the first part of the intervention, which I felt was most significant. Isn't that right, Deputy Vicar Leader Malan? I know that this issue is very close to your heart too. Minister Speranza, I have something to tell you, and I do it quietly. She deserves peace of mind, having been calm with us and because we know that she is not responsible for all this. I would like to make a brief comment on the information you have given us. You basically said that we were good and we contained the damage in our country and that today, on the basis of the indications you were given, even through the rate of incidence you spoke about, we are better placed than other countries of the European Union. But you must admit (you also said this) that we are not out of the danger, that there is a problem of Covid still present, that we will probably have problems even during the autumn and that therefore, for these reasons, you must absolutely maintain the three rules on the use of masks in the closed places, on the distance of one meter and on the washing of the hands. All right, we'll do it. All this, however, contrasts with a contradictory attitude, because if it is true what you have told us, then you must explain to us why your government has decided that a referendum that will involve over 55 million Italians and that could be carried out quietly also towards the end of the year (when you said that maybe the vaccine will come) must be done next 20 September. [[Applause]] You have to explain this to us, because, among other things, among the electors involved there are 4.5 million Italians living in Argentina, Brazil, Santo Domingo, the United States of America and so on, that is, in countries where you yourself have admitted the existence of huge problems of contagion and that are in full lockdown. I conclude by saying to you: do not forget that you, as Minister of Health, rightly, in my humble opinion, blocked the links with 16 countries in the world, even with Serbia, so countries also close to us. What's the point of blocking a Serbian who wants to arrive in Italy when maybe someone from Tunisia can arrive? We now know that only in my region of 200 illegal immigrants, more than seventy are infected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u118	Senator Pagano, don't make me take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u119	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Well, do you explain to me why health measures should not involve those people as well? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u120	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u121	Mr President, Minister, it is a little disappointing to speak - I say this to the President who represents the whole of this House - in a basically deserted Chamber, with a majority that has evaporated. [[Applause]] We take note of that. It is true that we are, for someone, already with the suitcase in hand and ready to go on holiday, but these are themes to which we must get used and above all to which we must give the necessary importance. Mr Minister, if we applauded you earlier, we obviously welcomed your attention to our request to prepare the guidelines, the points that will be needed for the reopening of October, for the next phase. I would point out that we would also like to share its content, so not only to know that it has taken into account our indication. It is certainly true that his work is within a minefield because the Government is working with an approximation that concerns us, for example when we talk about economic interventions or even the indications that are given to Italian citizens. Without a doubt, Mr President, the Minister is committed, he is calm; the Undersecretary is coming to the Chamber and to the Commission and he is dealing in a correct way, but we know that his colleagues are making a great deal of confusion, starting with Minister Azzolina and the schools, with the question of the benches that have now become the subject of jokes, or by President Conte, more committed to managing the renewal and procrastination of the Secret Services than to giving the attention he owes to Parliament. [[Applause]] Or think of his colleague, Lamorgese, who is objectively giving the bad proof of a "colabrodo" minister who cannot manage public order and security on national territory, even at the borders. What about his colleague De Micheli with whom we have seen that you are not exactly aligned when it comes to defining how you go by train, by plane or how you move from one side to another. [[Applause]] This is the government team, Minister. This is your government team, so it doesn't hurt if we are also disappointed enough with what is happening because, I repeat, if you come here and reassure us, what the government team is doing is something else. His speech was reassuring, as it should be, but there must also be a relationship with reality. This relationship is missing, we see it constantly, as I said before, with the activity of the entire Government. And then there are some questions that we want to ask and on which we want answers. We heard that out of the 150,000 kits for the planned serological tests, 60,000 were used and the Committee decided yesterday that the campaign would be closed. This definition doesn't convince us at all. We want to be sure why resources have been made available with the aim of screening and if we stop at 60,000 we wonder what happens. It's this approximation we don't like. What impresses, then, is the contradiction with those who ask for caution and caution. In recent days I have been with Senator Salvini to visit the Lampedusa hotspot. Have you been in there? If you haven't been there, go. Go see what happens in there and what risks to people's health are there. Moreover, your colleague, Mr Boccia, who was here a moment ago, has come to say in a very ridiculous way - I read from a statement - that: 75% of the positives are Italian (...). As for the positive foreigners, rescued by the sea, they are all subjected to tests and swabs and many of them immediately depart. Goodness of God: 25 percent applies to 15,000, on the other hand there are 60 million Italians. What are we talking about? Do we even know how to do the math? [[Applause]] The concern is such, Minister, because, by now, it is a matter of news. I'll bring back some if maybe she missed it. July 27, Caltanissetta: "Migrants fleeing, tracked 125 out of 185. Now they're gonna end up in quarantine. July 27th, from "la Repubblica": a part dedicated to Palermo: "Migranti." New mass escape from Sicily: hundreds escape from the structure of Porto Empedocle. From 28 July: "Migrants on the run. Caltanissetta yesterday, today Porto Empedocle. In 100 way from the center overcrowded. 29 July: "Migrants: new attempt to escape from the CARA of Caltanissetta" (ADN Kronos). We can move on. Again on July 29th, "The Journal": "Migratory Center": a colabrodo. 50 more on the run from Agrigento. And again, from August 4th: "Continua the flight of migrants. 700 of them board the quarantine ship. This report concerns us very much, Mr President, because it is clear that the lack of border control and the lack of control of when these people land on our territory creates a serious risk of spread of infection, which is even involved in illegal landings. And that is unacceptable. [[Applause.]] And it is even more unacceptable if it is linked to the great effort and effort to which Italian citizens and regular foreigners present in our territory have been subjected by complying with the rules. [[Applause]] It is on this approximation that we do not agree and for which we have great concern regarding the work carried out by the Government. You're building a tent city near Vizzini, replacing what was Mineo's CARA. We are opposing and opposing the citizens of that territory, because it is not acceptable that, when a government fails to ensure that those who are quarantined remain there, it even creates piles of hundreds of potential infected simply because it does not know where to put them. This is not a serious management, Minister, and if it is not about your Dicastery, take charge of it, because the government's activity concerns all Italians. And if Minister Lamorgese is unable to do his duty, the government must take charge of it! [[Applause]] Mr Minister, we then come to the well-known question of state secrecy imposed on the minutes of the Scientific Technical Committee. You come here today and, I quote, you tell us that transparency has always been the choice of the Government. I don't think so. You set the secret. When the Einaudi Foundation requested the availability of the minutes, you opposed the secret, resorting to the Council of State. And if you did, it's because you didn't want information to be made available to Italian citizens, saying, literally, as the State bill said: "Because there is a risk of damage to public safety" What are we talking about? You came here today to take away the secret of state only on one side. In fact, by going to consult the part that is already available today, we see that there are 3577 pages of attachments not made available. [[Applause]] The first report starts at number 12, while we know very well that the state of emergency was declared by the Government on 31 January and the constitution of the Technical and Scientific Committee dates back to 5 February. Mr. Minister, transparency takes place from A to Z. If you have suffered this situation and do not share it, it is your problem and you will deal with it with the rest of the Council of Ministers. I say, however, to those who wanted to open Parliament up like a can of tuna, that you closed it and sealed it very well. And if yesterday, here in this House, we did not take a position, that can of tuna would be, even, still locked in the drawer. [[Applause]] This is not transparency: this is creating opacity and concern in citizens about what are the real goals behind the management of the health emergency as proposed by the Government. Doubt, in fact, comes. Turning, however, to what I said at the beginning, Mr President, we are concerned about the approximation in the definition of the rules and actions by the government, starting from school, with the ridiculous choice of replacing the fixed benches with those things with the wheels, which call mobile benches but which are, brutally, wheelchairs with the bump. A horrible thing, on which I do not even know how we will be able to train our young people in education in the coming years. For this task, then, you have still entrusted everything to Arcuri, who had already given example of bad management skills during the initial phase of the coronavirus emergency. Now you've entrusted him with the management of the school. And as much as the government comes here today to say that the school will reopen without any problems, we know that will not be so. With regard to matters, Minister, which have long been foreseeable, why is this not being discussed seriously? You mentioned here, and you must have done so, to the medicine of the school, which has been eradicated and eradicated by the school for years now and which, instead, must return there. In these times, even more so, the presence of serious medical principals, constantly present to monitor the progress of schools and of a possible contagion, is fundamental in order to prevent that the exams are stopped once again rather than the educational sessions. Scientists were not needed to say this, they simply needed the political capacity to administer, they needed to look forward since the crisis began, knowing well that the school must reopen. In conclusion, Mr President, if Mr Galli's infectivologist, just this morning, making a prediction about the vaccine, ventured that he will be ready next year - hoping for a first part, but perhaps a second part - thus providing a long time, I say that now it is necessary to give guarantees to the Italians also in relation to a serious anti-influenza vaccination campaign. In fact, when autumn approaches, we will not be able to superimpose the risk of Covid to the flu risk, thus packaging a large mixture. On this we need to have certainties from the government, that from his intervention they do not arrive. Of this we are certain: if we do not do such actions, we will actually have a serious crisis, and there will be no more excuses for the initial improvisation, because this had never happened to us, but we will be faced with an expected disaster. In conclusion, we want serious commitments. We don't just want a sheet of commitments made here at the beginning of August, when everyone has their bags ready to go on vacation and I still tell the senators of PD, totally absent. Mr President, we are concerned that the government's management, as has been proposed so far, is essentially geared towards manipulating the consensus of the citizens, creating concerns and then providing solutions. This is not a serious management. We are very concerned, because our country is a country that has managed, for the great responsibility of the Italians, this crisis situation, but cannot be panicked by the underestimation of the problems that we will find this autumn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u122	Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u123	Mr President, as the Minister of Health rightly pointed out earlier, although the current epidemiological trend does not reach the critical levels of the past few months, there is, however, a slight but constant increase in cases of contagion. The newsletter of the Ministry of Health of August 5 noted that in the last twenty-four hours there had been an increase in new infections, that is 384 cases compared to the 190 of the previous day, and unfortunately also of the dead, arrived to 10 regarding the 5 of the previous day. This moment must therefore be interpreted as an absolute warning not to loosen the measures and to put in place the correct presuppositions for timely and effective interventions, in the inauspicious hypothesis of a resumption of the epidemic. Indeed, the situation is much more serious in the rest of the world, if we look at what is happening in the Balkans or at the outbreak of the epidemic in countries like Spain, France, Germany or, again, at the very complex phase that the United States is experiencing, with more than 4.5 million cases and 161,000 deaths or Brazil, with more than 2.8 million cases and 95,000 deaths. However, health care cannot be lowered at all and we believe that the choices made by the Government, based on rational evidence and precise technical assessments, are absolutely right and sensible. From the health point of view, in fact, although the epidemiological curve of the contagions has lowered and remained stable for a few days, the data showing that the virus continues to circulate, giving rise to limited outbreaks, which without adequate measures and caution could feed a resumption of the epidemic. This situation can be compared to that of a fire that has been tamed, but that has not yet been completely extinguished, because small outbreaks bury under the ashes, which in our case consist of the so-called import clusters, for which it is clearly necessary the strictest and strictest control by the institutions and the government, which is already taking the appropriate measures, and other outbreaks and clusters that now tend to affect younger individuals of the population. In any case, the virus cannot and must not be considered a distant and past enemy: it is still present and, if it is not promptly circumscribed and arginated, the infection risks to grow again and accelerate. You, Minister, did well to remember - and it would be good if we did so more often - that we still have no vaccines or drugs that can destroy or combat it: we have no effective weapon other than the prevention of infection, that we can implement it according to precise rules, such as respect for interpersonal distance, the use of the mask and frequent washing of hands. As the President of the Council of Ministers pointed out in his latest communications to this House, the extension of the state of emergency is necessary for the decisions taken by Decree-Law No. 19 and 33 of 2020 do not lose their effectiveness and so that the existing measures, prepared with the state of emergency, continue to have regulatory coverage. Caution, prudence and respect for the rules for the protection of our health must be the watchwords. A few days ago, Mr President of the Republic said: "There are no values that place themselves at the centre of democracy such as freedom. Of course, we must also take into account the duty of balance with the value of life, avoiding confusing freedom with the right to make others sick." [[Applause.]] The extension does not mean another blockage of the whole country or a limitation of the freedom of citizens, but aims to maintain the conditions to gradually resume a normal social, economic and productive life, according to security criteria, respecting the freedoms of all. It would therefore be appropriate that in these extraordinary circumstances government action should be supported by all, by the Regions and also by oppositions, which last, in the opinion of the undersigned, could avoid some sudden criticism, sometimes even unfounded, that generate only confusion in the population and have nothing to do with the primary objective of the action of this Government, constituted by the protection of the health and freedom of all citizens. [[Applause.]] I close my speech by quoting some of the words with which Italy has been appreciated internationally for the management of the emergency, after the outbreak of the pandemic (in this case, I also mention the words reported by an article in the "New York Times"): we were a place to avoid in all ways and an epicenter of nightmare; today we are a model, albeit not yet perfect, of containment of the virus, because we were able to give lessons to the rest of the world, to our neighbours and to the United States, thanks to the actions and measures adopted by this Government. So let us not lose sight of what has been done so far: thank you, Minister, Government and Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u124	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Health, whom I personally thank, together with the Undersecretary Sileri, for the availability.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u126	I have the floor, but I would ask you and all those who wish to intervene to remain on schedule.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u127	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, it has been seventy-five years since the US Air Force dropped the atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima. Three days later it would be Nagasaki: same device and same scenario of death and devastation. I believe it is our duty today to pay tribute to the thousands of victims caused by those attacks. But even more, I believe it is our precise duty to renew our commitment to ban nuclear weapons, as provided for in the UN Treaty signed on 7 July 2017, which our country unfortunately has not yet ratified. And I consider this to be a very serious fact. I want to share with you the incipit of Article 11 of our Constitutional Charter, which tells us that Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. These are words that express an absolute principle, but also an intrinsic need to act. Exclude war does not automatically mean promoting a peace policy. We live at a time when the question of nuclear re-armament has returned to the highest level and there is a return of interest, beyond an escalation of conflicts, between the major powers. At present, violence is increasingly accepted as a method of resolving conflicts not only between different states. We cannot and must not be spectators. We must not remain indifferent. Scholars speak of a new era of risk, which was never so high, even in the early 1950s, when the USA and the USSR faced the first hydrogen devices. The recent turning point in the geopolitics of atomic weapons led the metaphorical clock of the apocalypse, designed by scientists from the University of Chicago, a hundred seconds from the hour of the apocalypse. One hundred seconds is a little more than a blink of an eye, which reminds me of one of the many testimonies offered to public opinion by the survivors of the bombings in Japan: it dates back to about ten years ago and belongs to a woman who on the day of the atomic in Hiroshima was only a child. Already then she begged us to make loud the voice of those who could account for the horror and warned us: if humanity does not eliminate nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons will eliminate humanity.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u130	CASTIELLO (M5S). Mr President, two or three months ago, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic at the Tribunal of Naples issued 126 orders of custody with regard to very serious events at the San Giovanni Bosco Hospital, belonging to ASL Napoli 1. These are facts of unheard of gravity: at that hospital, one of the largest in Campania, a registered office had been installed - these are the words used by the text of the decree of the prosecutor's office - of the alliance of Secondigliano, the camorristic sign in which the three most powerful and fearsome families came together. I am referring precisely to the clans of the Licciardi, Mallardo and Contini, who had even set up a real sorting office for people in need of medical examinations or laboratory tests, so that a common town, in order to undergo a mammography, took three hundred and fifty four days, while passing through the office of the sign of Secondigliano forty-eight hours. They had also set up a factory of fake certificates for systematic scams at insurance companies. Some repentant have then declared that this widespread infiltration was common also to the other great Neapolitan hospitals, so much so that the investigations are being carried out with oil stain. Well, what happened? Access has been arranged: the prefect of Naples, by delegation of the Minister of the Interior, has arranged access. The access committee - according to press reports - has drawn up a detailed and timely report, in full conjunction with the contents and evaluations of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Naples. After that, the prefect of Naples, on the basis of this report - always according to press references - put forward the proposal for the commissioning of ASL Napoli 1 for camorristic infiltrations. The proposal has been in the hands of the Minister of the Interior for some time, but it does not end the procedure, and that is why I have taken the floor, Mr President. In conclusion, here is first of all a problem of the right to health, protected by Article 32 of the Constitution as the fundamental right of the citizen and the primary interest of the community: the only time that the Constitution, with regard to all subjective rights, marks a right with the adjective "fundamental," and this says a lot about the hierarchy of values. Moreover, there is the serious impairment of public order (ex Article 117, second paragraph, point (h) of the Constitution). There is therefore a need for legality and transparency. It is not possible that the Minister of the Interior does not decide and delay, especially since a very large group of senators - of whom I too am a member - submitted the question in immediate response No 301654, at Senate sitting No 224, on 3 June, to whom we did not receive any reply. We therefore ask the Presidency to activate the pressure mechanisms provided for in the Senate's Rules of Procedure so that there will be a prompt response, which is expected not only by us interrogating senators, but by the whole community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u133	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the situation of the Serena barracks, located on the border between the municipalities of Treviso and Casier, and which is responsible for hosting illegal immigrants, managed by a cooperative society with public funding. There's 293 of them. They've always been a problem with public order. Some live in a borderline way, others are real criminals, but another problem has been added to this. Thanks to the anti-Covid monitoring work of the Veneto Region, of these 293, this morning 136 are positive to Covid. These people refuse quarantine, refuse distancing as well as the use of masks, leading to problems that interweave between public order and health emergency, with a break-up of Forces of constant order. At night, as is documented in the newspapers - I take the example of Saturday and Sunday - music starts at full volume and noises that even affect the surrounding neighborhood, which is residential. The problem is very serious, which also harms the local communities. I heard the mayors Mario Conte of Treviso and Renzo Carraretto of Casier who are on the alert. I want to be synthetic. I have a few requests to make. As for the first: the center must be closed and the people in it must not be transferred to other cities or countries; I do not want the evil of my hometown to be transferred to others. They must be repatriated, as already requested by the administrations of the Region, the Province and the municipalities involved. With regard to the second: the Italian State follows the claims for damages lodged by the two mayors of Treviso and Casier, Count and Carraretto, and also provides a fund to cover the health costs of illegal immigrants entrusted by the State to the Veneto Region, which must be absolutely repatriated because they involve costs. The third request is as follows: I do not demand - and I appeal in particular to the leftmost part of this majority - that you imitate or learn from what Minister Salvini has done, because you are impervious to knowledge. However, have at least a little compassion for Italian citizens who have lived with an admirable civic spirit - also recognized by you - the lockdown and all the deprivations that still endure today, and then find themselves - for example - in Treviso in front of 136 new positive cases. It is yesterday's news that there are 300 more cases in Italy, and this has aroused scandal and alarm. I ask you, therefore, to have compassion, for once, also for the Italian people: close the ports. No more landings! Stop! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u136	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind you of what happened on 6 August 1863 in Pietrarsa, Portici, in an excellence of the South industry, with about 1,200 workers, of whom 800 are specialists. Excellence was the Bourbon factory wanted by Ferdinand II of Bourbon, a company then sold and fallen into ruin after the end of the Kingdom of the two Sicilies; the factory was privatised and sold to engineer Bozza for little money. On August 6, one hundred and fifty - seven years ago, the workers decided to show off the factory and the guards who were called shot at the workers. They manifested because workers and wages were reduced in a few months. The discontent was so widespread that, on August 6, 1863, the workers decided to stop the machines and play the siren as a sign of protest: a peaceful revolt, aimed at asking for rights and guarantees, turned into tragedy. They shot at the workers killing four: Luigi Fabbricini, Aniello Marino, Domenico Del Grosso, Aniello Olivieri. On the basis of subsequent studies, we can say that there were other victims, in fact, in the hospital, precisely because of the injuries reported. Four men, four Neapolitan workers were killed because they tried to defend their rights. For us, history cannot be erased. With the massacre of Pietrarsa, August 6 is the first May of Neapolitan workers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-249.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 1 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.28 a.m.
