ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 3 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u4	I inform you that on 7 November 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the Interior: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 148 of 7 November 2020 laying down urgent provisions for the postponement of electoral consultations for the year 2020" (2010). I communicate that on 9 November 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 149 of 9 November 2020 on further urgent measures in the field of health protection, support for workers and businesses and justice, related to the epidemiological emergency by COOVID-19
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u5	The Governing Board, meeting on 10 November 2020, delivered the following opinion: As a transitional measure, in view of the current epidemiological emergency situation, for the hearings of the Senate Commissions and the bicameral Commissions for which the Rules of Procedure of the Senate apply, participation with a videoconference connection to the proceedings is permitted, subject to the presence at least of the President or Vice President of the Commission and of the Head of the Secretarial Office.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u8	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we commemorate Giuseppe Di Vittorio, a man of my land, a great trade unionist, a great politician of our country, sixty-three years after his disappearance. He devoted his whole life to others, to the struggle for social justice to ensure a better future for those who had nothing, for workers, for those who were exploited, for the last, for those who could not go to school. He began working in the fields at the age of ten because of his father's premature death and at the age of eighteen he was already secretary of the socialist youth circle of Cerignola, his hometown. At the age of twenty-one he became secretary of Minervino Murge's chamber of work and at twenty-nine, that is, in 1921, he was elected deputy while he was in prison in Lucera (he had been arrested following a large anti-fascist strike in Puglia). His election was resounding and took place despite the terrible climate of intimidation that the squaddies had put in place in Cerignola and throughout Puglia, where resistance to the nascent fascism was very strong. He was soon sentenced to twelve years by the so-called special court for the defence of the State and took refuge first in France and then in the Soviet Union, and then returned to France, where he continued his action until he was arrested and then extradited to Italy. In 1943 he was released and resumed his action for the constitution of what he dreamed could be the common home of all workers, namely the Italian General Confederation of Labour. He was a member of the constituent assembly and then elected again in the first and second legislatures. He led a very intense life, without ever sparing himself and backing back even an inch on his battles for the affirmation of the social and cultural value of work, with wages that would allow the workers and workers to finally get out of poverty and for the affirmation of the independence of the union from politics. He dreamed of an open, democratic and plural union that brought together all the workers without distinction of ideological or party origin, because he was convinced that only unity could foster and accelerate the social and economic progress of the country, founded on the Republican Constitution, and the emancipation of the weaker classes. In the matter of unity he used to say - he said so very often - that workers, when they divide, forgive. Immediately after the war he realized that the country needed a new and modern vision and so launched the work plan, which had as its sole objective the common interest of the country, and combined the needs of the workers and those of the entrepreneurs, giving the first a fair wage and, therefore, a spending capacity that supported the demand for products and services and rewarded the investments and the productive effort of the entrepreneurs. Today we would classify its policies under the big hat of expansive policies; we would call them expansive policies and support domestic demand; policies that will however apply years later compared to their conception, in the sixties, and determine the productive success of our country in the years of the so-called economic boom. Di Vittorio was one of the few greats of Italian syndicalism that came from the movement of farm workers and not from that of workers. He has lived and struggled in very difficult decades, marked by dictatorship, fierce repression, by two world wars, by strong ideological opposition and then by the cold war. He did this without ever renouncing his own principles, his own dreams and what he considered an indispensable duty, that is, the defense of the weak, of the last, of those who had no voice. Remembering Giuseppe Di Vittorio today is not only a just and due tribute to man and his battles for the emancipation of society and for the rights of workers; it is not only a commemoration of manner. Those struggles are unfortunately very topical, because the battles on piecework, on precariousness and on the dignity of work; the struggles for a fair wage that allows a dignified life and allows to raise their children, make them study and become protagonists of society are all themes that, unfortunately, have reappeared over the last few years, the years of the gig economy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u11	FADELI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me today to recall Giuseppe Di Vittorio as a Member of Parliament, as a member of the Senate's Labour Commission, as a woman trade union leader who has spent her life in the CGIL. A great anti-fascist, a Father of the Homeland, a politician and a great trade unionist, Di Vittorio has been a protagonist in our history of world trade unionism, an example for many women and men who have fought with him and after him for the rights and dignity of the world of work. Di Vittorio was born in 1892 in a liberal and agricultural Italy, in a phase of tightening up social and territorial conflicts, in a context in which workers and labourers had no right, no education, no political representation, no hope and lived under indecent conditions. When he died, in 1957, he left a Democratic Republic founded on work on the eve of the economic and industrial boom in which, thanks to his contribution, workers and workers are recognized, they began a process of progressive affirmation of rights and found political-parliamentary and trade union representation. The story of his funeral made by Pier Paolo Pasolini for "Vie Nuove" perfectly describes this transformation, the ability that Di Vittorio had to build a representation that is made of physicality, shared effort but also of emancipation, personal growth and organized change. I've never seen people like this in Rome. I feel like I'm in another city... writes Pasolini. Thousands and thousands of men and women, almost all dressed in clothes that are not of work, but not even the good ones, of the feast: the clothes that they wear in the evening, after having washed from the anointed or from the smoke, to go down to the street, in the square. Pasolini still says "they are hardened men (...)", "they are hardened everywhere. But as the coffin has just passed (...) I see from their attitude that something happens inside them. One, in front of me, folds his head a bit on one side: I see the long, black cheek of beard and the red knob. His skin is contracted, as in a spasm: he cries, like a child. I look at the others, too. They weep, with a smile of desperate pain. They do not care to hide or dry the tears that have filled their eyes. Here, they mourned a man, a trade unionist, a leader who had dedicated his whole life to them - to laborers and workers - helping them to become aware of themselves, to become what he called the working people, who believed the very meaning of Italy and the Republic, so much so that there was no separation, in him, between the interest of the workers and the general interest of the country. From this deep conviction derives also the central value that has always recognized to the unity of the workers and, therefore, of the union organizations that represent them, convinced that only the union and only a unitary union, not corporate, never subordinate and respectful of the function of the enterprises, could hold together the interests of the workers and create a popular and national community. There was nothing that he was not willing to sacrifice for the unity of the workers, unlike other historical communist leaders. For him, the first belonging always remained that of the world of work, and so also the condemnation of the Soviet intervention of 1956 in Hungary was motivated precisely by taking the view of the workers and the conviction that democracy was always the choice to prefer to defend their interests. Di Vittorio had confidence in the workers, had confidence in the people, had confidence in the Republic and in Italian society. As Bruno Trentin wrote in a letter to his sister, Di Vittorio also naively saw in Italian capitalist society the wealth that could be produced, and that was not, rather than the existing poverty, and it was the idea of wealth that thrilled him. The contribution he made in the constituent assembly also allowed the affirmation of social representation as a pillar of the democratic state, an instrument for the participation of workers in the national political guidelines, thanks to a free, democratic, independent, horizontal, unitary union; a model of union which he later made live in CGIL, to which he was able to give autonomy, identity, economic strategy, trade union and politics, wanting to keep up with the times in order to remain always in contact with those who work. In this there is also a projection on the organization of Di Vittorio's personal experience, which does not resign itself to a destiny of ignorance. From self-taught she manages to become a trade union and political leader, esteemed and recognized, and she convinces herself that knowledge and culture are instruments of emancipation, equality, change, and here there is that ability to inspire, identify and guide the best. He said so himself in a speech at the 2nd Congress of Popular Culture in Bologna in 1953: I believe that I am representative of those deep layers of the humblest and poorest popular masses who aspire to culture, who strive to study and try to reach that degree of knowledge that allows them not only to ensure their elevation as individuals, to develop their own personality, but to conquer the condition that gives the popular masses a higher sense of their social function, of their national and human dignity. Here, in remembering today a figure like Di Vittorio, we cannot fail to think of how much can still be an example and inspiration for all of us, for the workers and the workers, for the new generations. To conclude, I borrow the words of Luciano Lama, who once explained in the following way what is to be learned from Di Vittorio: The courage to face reality, even the one you don't like. The constant effort not to appease the surface, but to see what is under the things. Finally, the habit of thinking about it, not to be hasty in judgments, but then to have the courage to express them even against the current. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u14	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we, too, as the Lega Group, are here to recall the figure of a Member elected in 1946 to the constituent Assembly and, therefore, one of the constituent Fathers. Reading the biography of Giuseppe Di Vittorio cannot escape the greatness of the person: of a family poor of laborers, forced to work from the age of ten, he still had the strength to study, to learn to read, to write, but, very young, already at twelve years, he had the intelligence, the strength, the foresight and - in my opinion - just the inner spirit to organize a protest, something that was going to protect the rights of workers. His whole life was a concatenation of events precisely to affirm the interest for the weakest classes, starting with the peasants who were still marginalized in the countryside, but also the working class in the cities that were going to enlarge. What surprised me is precisely the vision, lucidity and incredible life that he lived between two wars, in an incredibly difficult time. He participated in the First World War, during which he was also wounded, but also in the Second, and was imprisoned several times: the first time as a boy and then, with the dissolution of Parliament and the unions, he was sentenced to twelve years by the fascist regime. He managed to escape, went to France, and however, every time he went to another state, he could always work for the union, in favour of the workers. He did so in France, in the Soviet Union and in Spain, fighting for the Resistance. This impresses and makes us understand how his dose of great courage and leadership - a term that, however, at the time was not commonly used as today - allowed him to be recognized as one of the most important representatives of trade unionism in the world. By Vittorio, he even managed to be elected to Parliament for the first time in the ranks of the Socialist Party; directly from prisons, he entered Parliament. He had, therefore, a tormented life, during which he always knew how to fight for the things in which he believed. He also managed to hold positions distinct from those of his own party. He then entered the Communist Party, but managed to assume difficult positions, aligned with his own beliefs. In the same way, he condemned the racial laws in Italy in 1939 and in 1956 he distinguished himself from the position of Togliatti compared to the invasion of Soviet troops in Hungary for the repression of the revolt. He uttered words that can only be shared: The Red Army shooting at workers in a socialist country! This is unacceptable! Those are bloody regimes! A gang of killers! For a person of his level, opposing the secretary of his own party was truly an act of great courage. At the level of the world trade union federation he made a document condemning this event and was therefore completely isolated from the party and forced to follow the official opinion. However, he continued in his great work as a trade unionist and - ironic of fate - was struck by a heart attack just as he was meeting union delegates in Lecco in 1957. His was, therefore, an important life. I think that, beyond political positions, his biography and his history must teach us that, when there is such an important belief not only for themselves, but also in defense of categories, one can accept to live incredible dangers and even imprisonment; in the end this work pays, as can be seen also from the rights that the workers have fortunately obtained. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u17	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, remembering today the figure of Di Vittorio cannot have only a sense of celebration. It is a great figure of the twentieth century, which has marked the history of our country, the working-class and peasant movement and that extraordinary historical process for the conquest of rights, social justice and democracy. Remembering him today could mean, for us, being aware of the spirit and tenacity with which he faced that period. Di Vittorio was a man of his time, born in 1892: two world wars, the transition from an economy based on agriculture to an industrial economy, a radical social change. Vittorio was worried. Trentin says that he had an anguish both as a man and as a CGIL, he feared that he would not play a recognized and recognizable role in the development of contemporary society. In short, it is the meaning of true reformism and in the end it is the same problem that we, colleagues and colleagues, have today: to live up to our time, and not to record its difficulties and contradictions, but to play a role capable of innovation, of changing, of giving meaning to politics and of combating inequalities, of giving a national function to the ruling class. This is what Di Vittorio did. I would like to mention just a few elements of that great experience, including the Rome Pact of 1944. Di Vittorio, with Bruno Buozzi and Achilles Grandi, gives life to union unity. That was an inspiration that animated the whole life of Di Vittorio: the idea that the unity of the world of work was the fundamental key to the transformation and the national function of the union, not simply vindictive, but general, that is, capable of interpreting the changes. Thus comes the Work Plan of 1949: its commitment to prevent the working-class and peasant movement from being reduced to a simple claimful function in itself. There was a very famous conference, which represented a great novelty for this country, organized by the CGIL, on the Labour Pact and all the most important economists of our country referred and compared with that approach. It was a very innovative way to perform a function. Just think of Di Vittorio's commitment to countering the positions against the mechanization of agriculture, which also came exactly from the union, also from the CGIL, even from the laborers. I would also like to recall the Congress of Naples in 1952, when it launched the proposal for a statute for workers' rights. We arrived - as we know - only in 1970, on the impulse of Gino Giugni and Giacomo Brandolini, but certainly that was also a great intuition. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are facing the same problem today. Work has changed radically: we need to rewrite the fundamental foundations of labour rights, in this case, and not just of workers. I do not want and cannot forget 1956: its very firm and determined condemnation of the invasion by the Soviet Union of Hungary, a very difficult passage for Di Vittorio. He joined the Communist Party in 1924. In the face of a unanimous pronunciation of the leadership of the Italian Communist Party, Vittorio assumed the responsibility, as Secretary General of the CGIL, to take a clear, firm position, an overall judgment on real socialism and the idea of democracy. These hints serve me to say that it is very far from the truth a representation of Di Vittorio only as a self-taught foreman, from the dragging oratory, as a figure with neo-populist characteristics: it is not so. Vittorio was a great reformer: in his time he had an advanced vision, affirming an idea of freedom of thought that, in a rigid and opposed ideological dynamic, represented an extraordinary contribution, a wealth. If today we talk about the autonomy of the union a great merit certainly has Di Vittorio: autonomy of the union, of the CGIL, in relation, first of all, to the Communist Party; in short, a reformer. This is what we must learn: freedom of thought; indeed, first of all, freedom of thought, autonomy, courage to see the change that concerns us and must be interpreted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u20	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, a former colleague of ours, Benedetto Croce's nephew, who sat between these benches in the 10th legislature for only seven days, having resigned, is the author of the voice "Giuseppe Di Vittorio" (Giuseppe Di Vittorio) in the biographical dictionary of Italians. From this voice, written by Piero Craveri, I would like to draw some ideas for the memory of the great Apulian trade unionist, politician and exponent of the antifascism that was Giuseppe Di Vittorio. His status was that of an agricultural worker, with whom he will enter Parliament in the May 1921 elections. Let us remember that we are on the eve of the takeover of the power of fascism, and he was elected in prison for disorder and general strike in his Apulia. The events of his childhood and adolescence, referred to by himself or by others, are already all charged with unique meanings, because early is the legend that will mark his entire life as a trade union and political militant, and that is formed in that corner of Tavoliere between Cerignola, Canosa and Minervino Murge. Di Vittorio participated in the agitations of his labor league at the age of ten. In 1904 during a general strike he died next to his peer and friend Ambrose, mowed by the fire of the troop. In 1907 he founded the Socialist Youth Circle in Cerignola and the following year entered the leadership of the league that had Antonio Mineo as head; in 1911 he was secretary of the Chamber of Labour of Minervino Murge. In this very early parable was accomplished the first proper union formation of Di Vittorio, whose essential features were the league, the strike, the contract, the timetable and the tariff, according to the values expressed by the trade unionism of Apulia. It would also be too long to synthesize the extraordinary parable that began in the first decade of the twentieth century in the Apulian countryside - my colleagues recalled some of the salient features of his life: he crossed the history of Italy, an orphan of democracy, and his most critical and dark moments and extended to France and the Soviet Union. He also took part in the Spanish Civil War, up to the non-sharing note - mentioned earlier by my colleague Errani - of the official positions of the Italian Communist Party on the invasion and repression of the anti-Soviet uprising in Hungary in 1956. In the same way the consolidation of the trade union action of the same organization with precise political objectives was certainly one of the firm points that cost to his life not only sometimes heterogeneous opposite interlocutions, but also the total historical and social recognition of the link between human subjectivity and work, between the world of being and that of doing, between freedom and will, between democracy and law. With regard to these heterogeneous interlocutions in the sign of creating and maintaining as broad conditions as possible on the issues of union and legitimacy did not hesitate in 1902 to declare, in the independence that distinguished it until the end,...) I do not know how to wear the mask of the lie. Thousands of men live in the world working the day. So I'll work Di Vittorio entered the constituent Assembly, brought the values and lived life of the trade union world to which he belonged and for which he had fought, as I said, since the age of ten years. I have always been particularly impressed during his political career by a phrase that he spoke in response to someone who challenged some political attitudes, claiming that he had to use the hoe and not the spade: he replied that he knew what the hoe and the spade were, having used them both. I think it's a fundamental lesson. Finally, Mr President, I would like to remind you of your life, which has always been for the attention of union unity, of the unity of the workers' movement. I have a long militancy in the CISL, another great Italian union, but when we boys in union formation held meetings in the Di Vittorio room of the National CGIL, we considered that seat the symbol of the struggle for rights, for democracy in Italy and for the unity of the workers' movement. I think his biography is a testimony to young boys and young girls today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u21	The Vice-President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Garruti, may speak to report on the Commission's work on draft law No 1970.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u22	Mr President, as you know, as a member of the 1st Commission, we have not been able to conclude the examination of bill No 1970 for the conversion of Decree-Law No 125 of 2020. The Budget Committee is convened tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. We would therefore ask for a postponement of tomorrow morning's convening of this House, between 11 and 11.30 a.m., to start the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u23	Knowing the Commissions in place, I'd say 11:30, Senator Garruti, so we're a little safer. If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u26	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking about the events that have taken place in Como recently. Unfortunately, these are very painful events, which undoubtedly took place by the marginalized, undoubtedly, illegal immigrants, however, who do not have a regular residence permit. The most painful, certainly, was the stabbing of Don Roberto, who dedicated his whole life to the reception of the marginalized and homeless, to the problems precisely of this community, however assisted by many people, who live and sleep under a porch. Last week there was another very serious incident. A woman, at the entrance of a supermarket, was approached by a foreigner, who we discovered was not in possession of the residence permit and who should not have been in Italy, who asked her for money. This lady, on the way out, had the sensibility and generosity to offer him a sandwich, to give him something to eat. This gentleman (but "sir" is not exactly the right term) followed this woman and, near a parking lot, used her violence. There are witnesses and then he was arrested, just as Don Roberto's murderer was arrested. I think that the safety of Como citizens, as well as that of the rest of Italy, is one of the priorities. It is not possible that there are people who travel around our country without having a residence permit, without having a title and who, despite the help of many people, feel that they are delinquere and continue to do so. We can't afford that. Every time I read that a woman has been raped or harassed, it's a pain for everyone. It is not possible that people cannot travel around their own city and that even a generous act to say "look at them," is misinterpreted and the person has to suffer such trauma. It is not possible, especially at this moment, not to think about doing something serious and definitive not to see around, in our cities, people who want to criminalize and who, apart from everything, are not grateful. It is not always possible to postpone everything to the fact that there are psychological or psychiatric problems: it does not exist. Our citizens have the right to security, which must be the first of the priorities to be pursued. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u29	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, in renewing my sincere best wishes to the first female asian and African-American vice-president of the United States, Kamala Harris, I want to focus today on another woman, a Saudi woman, in the case of activist Loujain Alhathloul, thirty-one-year-old in Saudi prisons. The case came to the fore a few days ago and imposes more than one question and some perplexity on our conscience. Can we remain calm when millions of women are deprived of the most basic freedoms, praising this continuing violation of human rights? Since we have strong and well-established trade relations with these countries, do we continue to ignore them? Can we continue to confer medals and honors on Saudi king Mohammad bin Salman Al Sa'ud, who officially flaunts a social commitment and a deep interest in cultural and humanitarian activities to the right and to the left, and therefore rewards him when, for example, the crime of Saudi journalist dissident Khashoggi, consumed in the Saudi embassy in Turkey has not yet been clarified? King Salman in 2018, with cunning and certainly with lack of scruples, he cut out all the heirs to the throne, relegating them to a golden prison (it is still five-star hotels), but requisitioning them a heritage of more than 100 billion dollars, with a coup d'état that recalls much what he did in the eighteenth century Louis XIV, better known as the Sun King, when he eliminated the French aristocracy in a single stretch relegating it to the home of Versailles. I think we can't go on like this. Such arrogance and arrogance must find an embankment and must find it in a solid democracy like ours. Our Government and Italy all must acquire the right posture towards these tyrants who occasionally raise their heads and make strong with those who protest civilly and peacefully for primary, elementary rights, simply for human rights. Common sense dictates that, even before our international commitments. Today it remains the increasingly soft voice of a woman, Loujain, an activist who has entrusted her protest to the extreme fight of fasting, relegated to prison after a thousand mortifications in the body and soul, sexually abused and subjected to electroshock, rea has demanded for her and for thousands of other women the freedom to move without the need for a male escort, after having achieved the success of having the freedom to drive a car thanks to a campaign of general mobilization. Therefore, the international community and our country cannot ignore anything; they must demand the immediate release of Loujain and bring her home, otherwise they will be complicit in a serious injustice. Just as we cannot pretend not to see the systematic violence perpetrated on Syrian women refugees in Turkish refugee camps, which an absurd civil war forces us to live at the mercy of the events of our turn. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u32	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the inquiry into the transmission of the report on the spread of the Covid-19 in Sardinia has clearly confirmed what has already emerged in recent days and that, as a Sardinian Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars, I had already denounced in this Chamber in front of Minister Hope on 2 September. These are my words at the time: This year, unscrupulous takers have put the right to enjoyment and their profit before the citizens' right to health. The result was that of a recovery of the contagions and an unprecedented and unmotivated media attack on the Region of Sardinia. Well, today we can confirm with certainty the serious health situation that has been determined in Sardinia, which is the consequence of the ill-management by the Sardinian-Legist junta, which during the summer has allowed a "free" all to holidaymakers, residents and superficial entrepreneurs. The choices made have occurred at national level in a dramatic way. Yesterday Angelo Cocciu, the leader of Forza Italia in the Regional Council, dramatically admitted in front of the cameras of "Report" that the center-right chose to keep open the night clubs and discos until August, while being aware of the spread of the contagion, and that he would do it to respond to the pressures that came from the premises themselves, such as the Billionaire, who had stratospheric contracts with important DJs. That's what he said, unfortunately. It was therefore preferred to protect the business of those locals to the detriment of collective health. In fact, we remember that the discotheques were closed only after Ferragosto, August 16, by order of the Minister of Health, and President Conte reiterated, with DPCM of September 7, to close the discotheques. In September, the Junta tried to remedy its mistakes through improvised and wrong measures, such as mandatory tests for those who arrived on the island, then challenged by the Government and dismissed by the judiciary. But there's more. President Solinas, on 11 August, would have extended the opening of the premises also on the basis of a green light of the Regional Technical and Scientific Committee. Well, no one seems to have read this opinion, despite repeated requests from the oppositions in the Regional Council, so much so that today the prosecutor has opened a file to investigate the Sardinian Region for a manslaughter epidemic. Now the Junta and the whole Sardinian center-right must make public this opinion; they owe it to the Sardinian citizens and to the whole of Italy, in these days struggling with a very critical phase of the pandemic that has spread throughout the national territory in autumn also because of these bad choices. I therefore hope that the Governor of Sardinia will immediately clarify the political choices made this summer regarding the opening of the discotheques. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u35	SACCONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to make one particular case known to the House. It is not my custom, but I would like the House to learn from this devastating experience: Elisabetta Federico died last November 2 here in Rome, at the Children's Hospital Jesus, hospitalized for a bone marrow transplant. I do not want to go into the subject of the story that this young girl has suffered; mine simply wants to be the recollection of a cue, included in a long post of his father, Dr. Maurizio Federico, responsible for the National Center for Global Health of the Higher Institute of Health: a long post on Facebook taken from many national newspapers, in which - I guarantee you, Mr. President - there is never an accusatory tone, never an invective, but only words of praise and thanks to the Child Jesus hospital, aware of the authority and also, in some of the doctors, of the traits of humanity. In that post, however, there are questions to which the legislator must give answers. One of Maurizio Federico's questions concerns Plan B during a bone marrow transplant. Unfortunately, he discovered on the skin of his daughter, an adoptive daughter, that there is no plan B in international protocols, so if the donor's blood should be revealed, the night before the transplant, not compatible or unsuitable or not highly qualitative, unfortunately nothing can be done anymore, because you have not previously become aware of this. With a petition launched on the site "change.org" which has already collected 5,000 signatures, a request will then be made to the Minister of Health, who will be translated into a parliamentary question, so that the Minister of Health - which I imagine is pressed by the cursed pandemic and who knows how many cases in particular because of this one are not taken into the utmost consideration, because too stressed the health system - will be used to review these protocols. I would like to conclude, Mr President, with a tribute, because the hematologist said that there is no plan B, because it never happens. Here, our commitment as legislators is to make sure that that "never happens" that it was an exception for Lisa become a "never happens again" that those who have to do a bone marrow transplant can not have a plan B. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u38	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the latest tragic episodes of newborns abandoned in dumpsters or, unfortunately, sometimes killed, as in the case of the newborn of Trapani who died with his skull smashed, because thrown from a window on the fifth floor of a building, we must all reflect on these events; not just make considerations or words of circumstance, but make concrete acts, including legislative measures. Only in this way can we help mothers in serious difficulties and support them in such complex and difficult situations. Similar episodes (about 400 in a year in Italy) take place in every reality of our peninsula. The tragic events are almost always linked to mothers prey to postpartum depression or upset by fear of isolation and abandonment, unable to handle situations and realities greater than their age, or still caused by family and social dynamics that upset the soul and cloud the minds of women or families often already in difficulty. Beyond the importance and fundamental role of the associations for the protection of mothers or for the support of families in difficulty, I wanted to stress the need to offer a concrete possibility to mothers and parents who abandon the newborn, not wanting to recognize it. This painful and terrible choice - as I said - is motivated by various and complex problems. Infants are often abandoned with the umbilical cord still attached in the most disparate places, even in the dumpsters, exposed to cold and rain, with a strong risk of infection and thermal stress, capable in some cases of causing death. We welcome the idea of setting up reception points for infants located in hospital facilities, which we can define as 'culles for life' or 'culles social', where the newborn can be left in safety and anonymity and where he can receive appropriate care and care. These cradles, which we could define the modern wheels of the exhibits, as the one previously present in the Santissima Annunziata Children's Hospital in Naples (where I work), could be located at all birth points. In this regard, I have presented a draft law which includes, in addition to the location of the cribs, a whole series of awareness-raising and information initiatives and the establishment of a national toll-free number. We give a concrete response to help mothers, families in difficulty and newborns, innocent victims, so that this sad plague disappears.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u41	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank you for a speech which you have kindly given me and which could be made tomorrow, but which I would like to make now on behalf of all the citizens of Abruzzo who are struggling with the Covid and the terrible crisis in hospitals and health facilities. It is a complaint that can at this point serve for all similar situations that are probably being consumed in every corner of Italy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that I had seen the worst in my professional life as a journalist, having witnessed disasters and dramatic scenes such as those related to the tragedy of Sarno or the earthquake in L'Aquila, with the victims drawn out of mud or rubble. But, as a result of what I have seen these days as a simple citizen (because I had an misfortune, which at this point becomes an opportunity) who could, as far as he could, make himself available to doctors and especially patients in critical conditions, struggling with death in the hospital in Avezzano, I think I have been more useful in these five days than in two years of parliamentary activity. What do I mean, Mr. President? I am telling you this, but I am addressing the Minister of Health and also the President of the Council. In the Marsica there are more than thirty municipalities and in the hospital of Avezzano the situation of the contagions is out of control; not only you cannot do the treatment, but you can not even make the swabs, because there are no machines to process and the reagents are missing. In the hospital in Avezzano there has been this unique, terrible situation, in which the sick Covid are infecting the sick of the other departments, because it has not provided in time for the paths designated to separate the two realities. There are doctors and surgeons who leave the operating rooms and are forced to pass through infected areas. So to say in the end what? There is no time, but I appeal to the President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister of Health to immediately take a look at that hospital structure, which not only can no longer cope with the emergency, but which has become a problem for itself, because it has become a centre of contagion. It takes therefore immediately an external hospital, a tension structure, and it takes medical and paramedic staff, because the situation is absolutely out of control. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u44	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as the Forza Italia Parliamentary Group, we too had asked to speak in order to remember and commemorate Giuseppe Di Vittorio, the politician, the trade unionist. I do so now, at the end of the sitting, echoing what my colleagues from all the previous parliamentary groups have told me, who have already traced the biography of Giuseppe Di Vittorio, a biography certainly out of the ordinary. As a very poor and semi-literate labourer in Puglia, therefore of my land, in the early twentieth century he became the founder of the largest union of democratic Italy. He was also a member of the constituent assembly and then even president of the World Trade Union Federation. We are talking about a trade union and political militant, who forms in a land dear to me, as I said, in a particular triangle, that of the Tavoliere delle Puglie, in a territory between Cerignola, Canosa di Puglia and Minervino Murge. Of course, Di Vittorio's life was an adventurous and intense life, which often even reaches the confines of the myth, without losing sight of the two most precious values, both concrete and solid: work and democracy. Always on the side of the workers, of the weakest social classes, Di Vittorio has made a great contribution to the reconstruction of Italy after the war. We must not forget your commitment to the drafting of our Constitutional Charter. At this moment of great difficulty and discomfort that the country is experiencing, I would like to highlight Di Vittorio above all the sense of national responsibility, which has always prevailed in him, even in the tragic moments of the young Italian Republic at the end of the 1940s and his ability to address everyone, as if he spoke to everyone, his ability to speak to the heart of the people, therefore to the workers of Cerignola as well as the employees of Rome and Milan, to the workers of the factories of Turin as well as to intellectuals. A current message his and, in conclusion, I like to remember his own words: Our cause is truly right, it serves the interests of all, the interests of the whole of society, the interest of our children. When the cause is so high, it deserves to be served, even at the cost of enormous sacrifices (...). When one has the full awareness of serving a great cause, a just cause, everyone can say to his own woman, to his own children, to affirm in front of society, to have fulfilled his own duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u47	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to bring the health problem in Calabria to the attention of this House once again. In the last few days we have seen and heard too many: we have seen scoops, news that one minute before they were about a former Commissioner for health in Calabria and one minute after the new Commissioner in the meantime appointed. Well, all these news and scoops have done nothing but certify the government's failure on health in Calabria. I recall a thought of the Calabrians, who are now ill-suffering all that concerns the Commissariat in Calabria, which is the certification of twelve years of failures, of twelve years of teasing towards the Calabrians, towards Calabria and towards the health of the Calabrians. As Forza Italia Group, we have tabled a question, signed by all the Senators of the Group, addressed to the President of the Council and the Ministers Hope and Boccia to give us answers and we will not stop until these answers arrive. Without stealing too much time, I would like to read you some passages from the letter of a Calabrian woman, lawyer Veltri, who, in my opinion, sums it up in a very good way, makes us understand what the Calabrian people feel at the moment: Hours and hours spent in vain hope that you, Minister of Health, could open a gap of light in my martyred land, populated by proud people, hardworking in poverty, obedient, almost passive in the face of unjust and untrue rules. I call on you to symbolize the respect that we Calabrians have of the centuries-old culture, which imposes civilizations on us, which hinders us in the rational choice not to act violently. But we are now buried by atavistic injustices, which we suffer without having the strength to arouse ourselves. They've been Calabrian forever and ever. I want, I must be able to sedate my conscience with justice, which believes in the Constitution written by just men. In one day, in a moment, your ordinances have broken every dream, every hope of raising us up. Twelve years of the police station forced us sick to emigrate despite medical excellence; twelve years of the police station saw the department depowered, the hospital closed, the sacrosanct right to health denied; they were forced to endless ranks to return to the few who were effectively entitled to benefits that we should all have by law. Rights denied over the ephemeral justification of "the healing of Calabrian health," always and in any case to the detriment of an abandoned land, sedated by promises never realized. And while, proud of being a people who managed to keep the Covid at bay, at least in the first period, while the other Regions strengthened the departments of infectious diseases, here they reduced the beds in the same departments. When the masks did not arrive, there was no woman, mother or grandmother who did not sew them, cutting fabrics placed in the trunks. But we obeyed, prayed and reopened the niche activities, our workshops, certainly not factories. And while we are in the red zone again today, with our children who do not see the future, the wheelchairs arrived, while the masks arrived looked like veils of toilet paper. But what criterion, apart from the one formally adopted, did you intend not only to extend the Commissariat, but also to strengthen it? Why didn't you intervene directly by strengthening hospitals rather than sedate us with the bicycle bonus? In December, for Christmas, if we are free again, our tables will not be set up. We don't want bonuses, we want concrete, fair and fair presence. We want to continue to live with and for the dignity that distinguishes us; we demand equality, just justice, concreteness. Minister, go beyond the bare numbers, beyond the fine words of wanting to heal Calabria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-273.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 11 November, at 11.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.36 p.m.
