ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u3	I inform you that the Presidency, after hearing the Leaders at the Conference meeting last night, has decided that the convocations of the Permanent Commissions for renewal referred to in Article 21 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, already scheduled for Tuesday, July 14, are postponed until the next day, Wednesday, July 15, according to the following timetables: Commissions 1a to 7a to 7 p.m.; Commissions from 8th to 14th at 9 p.m. Groups will have to communicate the members of the Commission by 12 noon on Monday 13 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u4	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-01453 on the crisis in the flower industry due to the coronavirus epidemic. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware of the extremely difficult situation in the field of floriculture, and that is why we attach the greatest attention to such a significant and strategic share of the national agricultural sector, both by identifying every possible instrument for immediate support and by working in a long-term logic for the relaunch of companies in the sector, compatible with an unprecedented emergency and crisis. In his continuing talks with the European institutions, in particular in bilateral meetings with the Commissioner for Agriculture and in the Council of Ministers, the Minister has always stressed the need for urgent and effective action in favour of flowering. With regard to some of the first measures introduced, I would like to remind you that in the so-called re-launch decree, today under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies, there is provision for a non-refundable contribution in favour of persons operating business activities and self-employed persons or holders of agricultural income, as well as the extraordinary exemption from the payment of social security and welfare contributions to employers due for the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2020 in favour of the companies belonging to the flower industry. The latter, moreover, can access the guarantees offered by the Ismea Fund, which has a financial envelope aimed at operations in the Covid period of 350 million euros. It is the intention of this administration to organize a communication campaign in Italy and abroad to support the revival of the floral product made in Italy. Finally, in order to meet the difficulties of farms and fisheries that have suffered a severe liquidity crisis, Ismea has allocated 30 million euros to provide loans of a maximum amount of 30,000 euros at zero rate and with a duration of five years, of which the first two pre-depreciation. The measure complements the other extraordinary measures taken by the Institute, including the suspension of loan instalments, the extension of the operation of guarantees and the extension of the time limits for participation in the Bank of the Earth. The application may be submitted via the ISMEA portal directly from the undertaking concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u8	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group is absolutely dissatisfied with the answer for its inconsistency: only smoke and no roast; very obvious things. On 18 March, when we presented this question to the Minister (four months ago) we had in mind the problem of Italian flora: we are talking about 23,000 companies, 100,000 employees and 2.6 billion euros in turnover. These are not crumbs, but the real substance of Italian gross domestic product. These figures appear even more serious considering that the Government has done absolutely nothing. Last week, Istat, as far as the economy is concerned, said that in autumn one out of three businesses could close down and 800,000 jobs could be lost, probably even in the Floric sector. But it is certain that this will happen in the Floric sector and it is very serious that the Government has not done anything to date. Many companies in the sector will close and fail and will also fail an important part of the Made in Italy floral, and this sector boasts an international record, not only Italian. Once again - I am sorry to tell you, Mr Undersecretary - we have not even been able to copy the other European countries. In Europe it is enough to look at Holland (600 million euros available to floriculture), France, Germany, Switzerland and Spain, with certain and immediate resources for the floriculture sector. Nothing in Italy. To date, according to Istat, there are 70,000 marriages skipped due to the coronavirus. The wedding business is linked to that of the Italian cut flower sector, which in Europe is second only to Holland, with a loss of 200 million euros. If we consider also the losses resulting from the missed conferences, public events, fairs, assemblies and parties, we add another 200 million euros, thus reaching 400 million euros of dry loss. And you tell me about the Ismea agricultural bill to be returned? But don't make us laugh, not to cry, the whole Italian Floric sector! The other fundamental aspect is that in the framework of the so-called relaunch decree, which you mentioned, the League proposed the wedding bonus, which was rejected precisely by its majority. It would have been an important measure because it would have promoted the development and support of Italian floriculturalism. Six months of suspension of social security contributions is also very little: it takes two years of suspension plus certain liquidity, which we continue to ask for. In the Chamber of Deputies, with a unanimously approved agenda, the Government undertook to take urgent action in order to support the activities of the companies in the field of flowering, providing for the establishment of an ad hoc fund (what you have denied in the decree I raise because you do it to join the Emergency Fund to protect the supply chains in crisis). To date there is no line of contribution for Italian florovivaism. It is clear that this sector needs certain support. If you are not able to give answers to Italians, Italian agriculture and Italian flora, please draw the consequences, because - sooner or later - all Italians will do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u9	Following is the question 3-01649 on the right to benefits from Covid-19 of seasonal workers of tourist-receptive enterprises. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u10	Mr President, Senators and Senators, this question calls the attention of the Government to the category of seasonal workers in the tourist-receptive sector, for whom - in the opinion of the honourable Member - the possibility of access to the support measures put in place by the Government to cover the emergency Covid-19 has not been recognized. In this respect, I must first stress that the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, from the beginning of the pandemic, has acted to ensure the function of income support instruments in favour of all categories of workers, in order to contain the catastrophic effects that the serious pandemic has generated in the world of work. For these reasons, a comprehensive protection system was introduced by Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, which includes, inter alia, the provision of compensation for self-employed workers, self-employed persons and employees working in specific sectors of production. In particular, Article 29 provides for support measures for seasonal tourism workers and thermal baths. With regard to this question, the failure to provide Covid-19 benefits to fixed-term workers employed in the tourism and spa sectors is highlighted. In this regard I can report that the INPS is proceeding to a review and to the consequent acceptance of the applications of the workers, as identified above, interpreting the provision of article 29 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 and of which article 84, paragraph 5, of the Italian I throw again decree, in the sense of admitting to the benefit the workers who - in addition to having unintentionally ceased as seasonal in the fields of tourism and thermal establishments in the period between 1 January and 17 March 2020 - have had a further and last relationship of work ceased unintentionally, but not as seasonal and not necessarily in the aforementioned productive sectors. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Labour, in agreement with the MEF, is engaged in these days in the preparation of measures to protect also fixed-term workers in the tourism and thermal care sector, through the issuing of a decree implementing Article 44 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 and that it can guarantee protection for the category in question in March, April and May 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u13	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I appreciate the effort the Government has finally taken on this subject, but I think it should be speeded up: this is not a small audience, because we are talking about at least 180,000 people who have actually worked in the tourist-receptive and spa sector in the previous season, they have been hired with fixed-term contracts and not seasonal contracts - because the rule allows the entrepreneur to adopt this instrument - and are without protection (so they have been discovered for the months of March, April and May). I think we need to speed up: I have already spoken with the Minister who mentioned this regulatory intervention a few more times, but I think it is necessary to push, because we cannot leave such a vast audience without any support, because the uncertain tourist season, which has now begun, will probably not allow the absorption of all these people, who will find themselves in the autumn to not even be able to demonstrate the seasonality of the employment relationship. Prayer is therefore to speed up this issue and also to frame the solution in the perspective of next autumn, because these workers will remain totally undiscovered again.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u14	Following is the question 3-01482 on the treatment of patients with coronavirus in the Lombardy RSA. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u15	Mr President, as part of the strategies for preventing, assisting and controlling coronavirus contagion, the Higher Institute of Health has promoted national survey on contagion in residential and social health facilities. In the Lombardy Region 677 RSA (health care) were contacted, of which 266 responded (about 39 percent). A total of 3,045 residents died in these facilities from 1 February to 14 April 2020, 166 of whom were positive Covid-19 and 1,459 with compatible symptoms. More generally, as part of the strategies for the prevention and control of the SARS-Cov-2 virus epidemic, the need to pay close attention to the elderly population has emerged from the outset. Since the adoption of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 March 2020, the Lombardy Region has also been prescribed the strict limitation to the access of visitors to health care residences as a fundamental measure of prevention of contagion. Older people represent the most fragile population par excellence and to be protected with the most appropriate caution, also and especially during the epidemic that we are experiencing. The circular of the Ministry of Health of March 25, 2020, updating the lines of organizational address of the hospital and territorial services in the course of emergency Covid-19..., reported the emergency connected to the guests and the patients hospitalized in the RSA, particularly fragile for which it is necessary to carry out close surveillance, as well as the strengthening of the care settings. The circular emphasized the following essential actions: priority is given to dedicated residential structures where patients with Covid-19 who do not need hospitalization; strengthening the staff in service at these facilities, including through extraordinary recruitment mechanisms, as well as the possibility of using personnel already employed in semi-residency and home care services, providing training and prevention courses specific to all the staff working there; systematically carrying out swabs for the early diagnosis of infection for health and social-health workers and providing them with personal protective devices. There is also a need to ensure the continuity of canteen, laundry, cleaning and related services, and to extend to dedicated operators the measures aimed at defining a possible infection. The subsequent Ministerial Circular of 29 March 2020, with interim indications for the rational use of SARS-Cov-2 infection protections in health and social health activities (assistance to persons affected by Covid-19) in the current SARS-Cov-2' emergent scenario, elaborated by the Working Group, prevention and control of infections of the Higher Institute of Health, has specified that it is of fundamental importance that all healthcare professionals involved in the care are properly trained and updated regarding the modalities and risks of occupational exposure, the prevention and protection measures available, as well as the characteristics of the clinical framework of the Covid-19. In order to pursue the objective of maximum possible protection, it is necessary that staff should be equipped, on the basis of scientific evidence, with personal protective equipment appropriate to the professional risk to which they are exposed, and this is all the more so with regard to staff working in a context of high welfare intensity and prolonged exposure to risk. On the test side, Circular No 11715 of 3 April 2020, containing the Covid-19 Pandemic - updating the indications on diagnostic tests and the criteria to be adopted in the determination of priorities - recommended that the performance of the test be ensured to healthcare professionals and assimilated at greater risk on the basis of a definition made by healthcare companies as employers. In addition, among the operators exposed to the highest risk to be tested in order to protect themselves and reduce the risk of nosocomial transmission, those of the RSA and other residential structures for older people have also been identified, although asymptomatic. I would like to point out that the document of the Higher Institute of Health (Interim Indications for the prevention and control of SARS-Cov-2 infection in socio-sanitary residential structures), updated to 17 April 2020, was transmitted to the autonomous regions and provinces with the circular of the Ministry of Health of 18 April 2020. The indications of the document concern the areas of prevention and preparation of residential structures for the management of any suspected, probable or confirmed cases. The measures provide for a strengthening of key programmes and principles for the prevention and control of care-related infections, including appropriate training of operators. In particular, the reinforcement should provide for adequate preparation of the structure to prevent the entry of Covid-19 cases and to manage any suspected, probable or confirmed cases that might occur among residents. The document covers the need for adequate active surveillance between residents and operators for early identification of cases. The facilities should be able to carry out temporary isolation of suspected cases and, if effective isolation is not possible for the clinical management of the confirmed case, transfer to a hospital environment or to a facility suitable for isolation for any further clinical assessment and treatment required. As regards the regional aspects, the welfare department and the welfare Directorate-General of the Lombardy Region indicated the following. The very serious pandemic hit the Region in a particularly severe way, which has a percentage of the oldest population among the highest in Italy, with the over 65 equal to 22.5 percent of the population, according to the source Istat of 1 January 2019. The RSAs intended to accommodate almost exclusively citizens over 65 years of age at 31 December 2019 were 708, of which 657 were managed by private individuals, for a total of 64,411 beds. In order to cope with the health emergency, the Region reports that it has provided a series of operational instructions given to the various joints of the regional health service and constantly updated to understand the indications contained in the ministerial circulars. The Region specifies that it has adopted the procedures for the carrying out of swabs to operators and guest patients in line with the ministerial provisions and that it has constantly provided updated information to the healthcare staff on the various prevention measures and the correct use of personal protective equipment. With regard to the access of the family of the guests to the RSA, the Region has put in place the first measures limiting visits with the communication issued on 23 February 2020, where it is specified that the relatives of the patients admitted to the health and social health facilities must comply with the rule of access to the structure in number not exceeding one per patient. The Lombardy Region also excludes from having taken measures to encourage undue mixes in the management of Covid positive or suspected Covid patients with negative ones, and reports that it has advised the structures to block new accesses from March 9, 2020 and the identification of autonomous structures from the structural point of view (separate pavilion or physically independent structure) and organizational, in order to ensure low intensity assistance to Covid-positive patients. However, membership was on the free choice of institutions. Specific measures for the protection, prevention and care of the guests of the RSA and safety for the operators involved were provided for in the resolution of the Regional Council No XI/3018 of 30 March 2020, which wished, in particular, that for the benefit of the particularly fragile guests received in the RSA the care should be provided at the same structure, in order to avoid the risks due to external transport. Moreover, the Lombardy Region, with Decree No 529 of 11 April 2020, signed by the regional president, has constituted a commission of verification for the RSA composed of eminent scientific personalities outside the Region. It has the task of carrying out a structured audit, in order to verify the best best practices and actions that may be necessary to best address in the near future a coexistence with the Covid-19 virus. In turn, the Minister of Health has given the task force, set up within the crisis unit, to carry out thorough inspections at the RSAs of different regions. At present, these checks have been initiated in Lombardy, Calabria and Sicily, with reference to specific situations of infection or death in certain social and health facilities. In particular with regard to the Lombardy Region, on April 9, 2020, a visit took place by the Ministry of Health at the Pio Albergo Trivulzio, to the result of which were found organizational and management criticalities. On 20 May 2020, the Ministry of Health sent to the Lombardy Region a note containing the requirements for improvement actions to be implemented in order to overcome the problems that emerged, aimed in particular at the protection of fragile subjects that represent the weakest element and therefore more at risk in the chain of contagion. It has also been pointed out the need for the Lombardy Region to take action to activate and implement all the actions planned and dictated by the circular of the Ministry of Health of 17 March 2020, and subsequent additions, as well as the document drawn up by the Higher Institute of Health, updated to 16 March 2020, also recalled. The Lombardy Region has also been invited to communicate the deadlines for compliance with these requirements. I assure you that it is precise understanding of the Ministry of Health to carry out further activities of verification among these types of territorial welfare structures, in order to shed light on the organizational-structural and safety criticalities that have been able to contribute to the spread of the contagion between the patients and between these and the health workers, as well as to verify, at the same time, whether the measures taken by the Regions in the matter of RSA have been and are adherent to what dictated by the circular specifications issued by the Ministry of Health. Finally, I note that with the beginning of the phases after the lockdown, in which there is the coexistence with the virus and a gradual return to normal activities, it becomes indispensable a remodelling of the assistance that allows a prompt intervention in case of new outbreaks, with a taking charge of the patients affected and those in home isolation, also through a real integration between hospital care and assistance on the territory. In addition, it is necessary to ensure continuity of care for fragile patients (chronic, non-self-sufficient and disabled), ensuring compliance with the provisions for prevention of infection and the protection of the health of patients and operators through any specific protocols. These priorities have been the subject of a recent regulatory intervention as referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of Decree-Law No 34 of 2020. It should also be recalled that a working table is in place at the Technical and Scientific Committee which is developing guidelines that make regional initiatives on the strengthening of territorial assistance and its integration with hospital assistance homogeneous throughout the national territory, taking into account the specific needs mentioned above. I therefore assure the interviewing senators that the greatest attention is given by the Ministry of Health to the respect of the best RSA management practices in this emerging context. To conclude, I apologise to Senator Mirabelli for the fact that the data provided to me by the Ministry are up to date on 14 April 2020. I have already requested updated data a long time ago. I believe that having updated data can be useful to understand whether from February 14th to today things have greatly improved or not, so it will be my concern, as soon as the data will be in our possession - then transmitted by the Regions and analyzed - to provide them for an accurate analysis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u18	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General and the Government for confirming their willingness to keep an open focus on the issue of nursing homes in general after what happened with the pandemic. I welcome the call to follow this issue and announce that we are going to put another question in order to have more up-to-date information than the situation of nursing homes. I also take note of the responses received from the Lombardy Region that you have reported to us (I believe that the data came from the Region). I take note of that and record that they continue to be self-absolute. Frankly, even with regard to the question, some things do not add up. For example, it appears to us that many nursing homes that had asked relatives to close in February were denied the possibility of doing so. However, now we are not looking for responsibilities, since a number of investigations are being carried out by the judiciary. The subject I believe is what the President of the Republic asked to visit Bergamo: it is necessary to understand what happened, to understand what was wrong in order to prevent it from happening again. We cannot fail to address this issue in Lombardy where, in nursing homes, the mortality rate was 9.7% for diseases related to Covid, while in the rest of Italy it was 3.7 percent. Something has not worked and we must understand what has not worked, I repeat, not in order to attribute responsibility to someone - the judiciary thinks of it - but because those mechanisms that have not worked have to be corrected and because, if the epidemic starts again, we must be sure that those errors will not be corrected. We owe it to Lombard citizens and Italian citizens. If we do not do this and we limit ourselves - as I have unfortunately heard from the answers he has told us - to self-absolve ourselves and to say that we have done everything we had to do, that figure of 9% - compared to 3% in the rest of Italy - continues not to explain and since I do not think that bad luck is a category we can appropriate, I think we must go ahead to try to understand what happened in Lombardy in the RSA.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u19	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.06 a.m. and resumed at 30.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u20	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Education will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-01756 on the issue of electronic identity cards in the Ladin language in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 (3) of Decree-Law No 78 of 19 June 2015, converted, with amendments, by the law of 6 August 2015, No 125, provides for the issuing of the new electronic identity card (CIE). The Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2015 laying down technical rules for the implementation of the IEC defined the technical characteristics, the modalities of production, issue, issue of the electronic identity card, as well as the maintenance of the relevant computerised archive. In the Autonomous Province of Bolzano the issue service by the municipalities of the new CIE in trilingual form: Italian, English and German should be launched shortly. Article 32, paragraph 3, of the decree of the President of the Republic of 15 July 1988, n. 574, laying down rules for the implementation of the Special Statute for the Trentino-Alto Adige Region concerning the use of the German language and the Ladin language in relations with the public administration and judicial proceedings, provides that: The identity cards are drawn up in Italian, German and Ladin languages, in the municipal territories of: Ortisei Val Gardena, S. Cristina Val Gardena, Selva di Val Gardena, Corvara in Badia, Badia, La Valle, San Martino in Badia, Marebbe, as well as for the hamlets Oltretorrente, Roncadizza and Bulla of the Municipality of Castelrotto (Bolzano). To date, despite the rule of implementation of the Special Statute for the Trentino-Alto Adige Region mentioned it expressly provides for it, it does not seem that the Ladin language has been included in the CIEs that will be issued by the aforementioned municipalities as the software endowments provided by the Polygraph Institute and Mint of the State do not foresee it. It is therefore asked to know what are the reasons why, in issuing the new electronic identity cards, the linguistic specificities of Trentino-Alto Adige-Südtirol as provided for in the decree of the President of the Republic of 15 July 1988 (No 574, cited above), and if the Minister does not consider to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senator draws attention to the service of issuing the new electronic identity card launched in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, emphasising the regulatory provision contained in the decree of the President of the Republic No 574 of 1988, which provides that the same is issued in some municipal territories in the Italian, German and Ladin languages, as well as in English, the default language of the Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2015. In May the issue of the Italian-German bilingual electronic identity card was launched at the municipality of Bolzano. This is the result of a journey involving the Government Commissioner for the Province of Bolzano and the Consortium of Municipalities of South Tyrol. It is particularly complex from a technical administrative point of view, as it has resulted in the need to adopt the graphic approach and the technical standards defined for the electronic identity card at national level in order to correspond to the particular autonomous structure present in those territories. The identity document has taken the form of multilingual graphics and this feature has necessarily involved difficulties in drawing up the outline of texts and formulations to be reproduced in order to include identical graphic characters and the use of a terminology that has been shared with the institutional representatives of the different linguistic groups concerned. Following the successful conclusion of the creation of the Italian-German electronic identity card, we can now proceed to deepen the design of the identity card with translation into the Ladin language, including its format. To this end a technical change to the aforementioned ministerial decree of 2015 may be necessary for a specific configuration of the support for the Italian-German-Ladin paper because the same will have to be prepared for the introduction of four, Italian, English, default language, German and Ladin, in compliance with the provision of article 32 decree of the President of the Republic July 15, 1988, n. 574. I will therefore give a personal boost to the necessary further insights in order to also allow the issue of the identity card with the Ladin language. I think, however, to point out that in the mores of the definition of the necessary technical aspects preparatory to the start of the activities of issue of the document, the commissioner of the Government for the Province of Bolzano, together with the consortium of the Municipalities, has already prepared in Ladin language the notes of transmission and the instructions of activation of the electronic identity card Italian-German bilingual, in order to facilitate the citizens resident in the territories of Val Gardena and Val Badia in the use of the document. The above in due respect for the existing legislation which is based on the recognition and protection of linguistic minorities as the fundamental principle of our Constitutional Charter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u23	Mr President, I thank the Minister. With this question we wanted to bring to your attention the issue of identity cards also in the Ladin language in the municipalities where the respective linguistic minority is established. The hope - which I have seen is common - is to be able to resolve in short terms the technical problems to which it has referred, given that these are nevertheless values protected by the Constitutional Charter, but also by the Statute of autonomy, by its implementation and, therefore, by fundamental values of our system.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u24	Senator Cirinna has the right to explain the question 3-01763 on the indication of parents in children's identity documents, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his presence. In my question, I would like to put to your attention the issue of issuing an identity card for children of the so-called rainbow families. On 3 April 2019 a directive of the then Minister of the Interior was published in the Official Journal amending the provisions of another ministerial decree of 2015 and re-establishing the words "father and mother" on children's identity documents, with particular reference to electronic cards necessary for expatriation. The Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2015 specifying that requests for electronic identity cards valid for the expatriation of the child were to be submitted jointly by father and mother at the national desk. So it happened that in 2019 all the texts of the modules and also of the electronic system were immediately adapted, with the consequence that only the questions supported by two parents of different sex were accepted and are still accepted. It is well known to all, not only in this House, that the presence of two parents of different sex is not a condition in the lives of all minors. I simply think, without wanting to go too far, to orphaned minors. In particular, there are children and children in our order who, by the effect of inscriptions or in particular cases of adoption judgments already passed in court and regularly noted in the margin of their birth, to date have at all effects of law (no appeals, courts, or Cassation) two parents of the same sex, who are unable to request and obtain for their children an identity document corresponding to the personal and social identity of the same. As you know, the text is deposited and I ask you to know from Minister Lamorgese simply if you can restore the existing wording before 2019, when the words:... father and mother... were simply indicated by the word: "parents." PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member draws attention to some of the problems that would have arisen as a result of the changes made in this matter by the Ministerial Decree of 31 January 2019. With this measure, amendments were adopted to the previous Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2015, which restored on the electronic identity cards of minors valid for expatriation, the words: "father and mother" instead of the words: "parents." The particulars on the identity card represent the personal data of the holder resulting from the relevant record kept by the City of Residence and in accordance with the respective data of the civil status, as well as the relevant records. Evidence that on January 9 last the TAR of Lazio has declared the inadmissibility for lack of jurisdiction of four judicial actions aimed at obtaining the annulment of the provisions of the ministerial decree of 2019, considered illegitimate for violation of plurime dispositions of law. To date, it is not apparent that the applicants have summarized the cases before the competent ordinary court. The Data Protection Supervisor has recently announced that he has received reports on critical issues in the application of the Ministerial Decree of 2019, in relation to the profiles related to data protection and the protection of minors, demonstrating the availability for the identification of interventions aimed at their solution. As a Ministry of the Interior we have accepted the availability of the Office of the guarantor for a deepening of the topic and I inform that already in the next few days will be started by the competent offices of the Ministry a comparison on the topic. At the outcome of the interlocutions, the areas of action that should be highlighted need to be defined. Once you have received an overall assessment on the subject, you can consider the consequent adaptation of the software suitable to enter the data related to the applications for the issue of the electronic identity card for the expatriation by pairs of same-parents, however it is necessary a previous regulatory change. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Cirinna may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u27	Mr President, I very much welcome what the Minister said. I remember that the Guarantor for the protection of personal data had already expressed himself on the preventive opinion to the ministerial decree of 2019; however we must also show that, beyond the ideology that a Government believes to carry forward regarding a previous one, there are inviolable rights that must be respected at this moment in reference to these children who are still of series B, in a country in which it is enough to have the luck of being born from a heterosexual couple to access all rights. These children do not have grandparents or related ones, they are punished for the way they were born and for the love of their parents. I believe that in a secular, free and democratic country this cannot continue to happen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u28	Senator Pharaoh has the right to explain the question 3-01765 about the lack of equity in the trial involving Silvio Berlusconi, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u29	You, Minister, on the conviction of Silvio Berlusconi in the trial on TV Mediaset rights and the statements of Judge Amedeo Franco chose the line of silence: you did not speak a word. We do not contest this, let alone; we have challenged in the past the opposite, that is, excessive talkability, for a Dicastery that would need more sobriety. The problem is not that I didn't say anything, but that I didn't do anything. Today's question time is a tool that we use to urge you to do. The judge who talks about filth, platoon execution and a priori judgment is the extensor of the sentence that condemned President Berlusconi, with obvious repercussions in the democratic game of the country, because that sentence kept out of Parliament the man who led the longest a government in the history of Italy, and you cannot whistle and turn on the other side, as if nothing had happened. It is not up to us to say how things went, but it is up to her to make a decisive contribution to discovering the truth. We are not passionate about the fans, but neither is the shame that makes fans backwards. We cannot afford to minimize this, and we cannot accept that this story should end up in the newspaper jigsaws, when it has been printed in the front pages of all newspapers in the past. The Berlusconi ruling is the litmusol map of the functioning of Italian justice, for a former Head of Government as well as for any citizen. We must be sure of the impartiality of justice in our country; we must be sure of the credibility and authority of the judiciary, which has already been severely affected. And all political forces should demand clarity across the board, rather than the buzz, even a little annoying, to my left. I also value the fact that it is not only Berlusconi's party, but a different party, which puts the guarantee and respect of citizens before the law at the centre. So, Minister, we ask you what action you intend to take in practice to ascertain how the facts really went. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u30	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u31	Mr President, the interrogators refer to a recording by press and attributed to the magistrate Dr. Amedeo Franco, who died in May 2019, to ask what initiatives the Ministry of Justice intends to take in this regard, within the framework of its powers. I would like to mention precisely the powers of the Ministry to point out that, in general, according to Legislative Decree No. 109 of 2006 the Ministry of Justice carries out investigations in order to request, where appropriate, the exercise of disciplinary action by the competent institutional body responsible for this matter before the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the General Prosecutor at the Court of Cassation. The investigation must be based on detailed and specific facts relating exclusively to magistrates currently in service. With regard to the case under question, where factual profiles of this type arise, within the framework of competences and within the regulatory framework that I have just highlighted, the offices will carry out all the appropriate assessments within the annual term assigned to them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u32	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u33	Mr President, I am, of course, dissatisfied with the Minister's reply, because I believe that his attitude in other circumstances has been quite different, even in this particular case that they are very similar to that we are discussing today. I must say that I was not convinced of the idea of a Parliamentary Commission on this subject, because I believed that within the Dicastery and in the actions of the Ministry of Justice all the necessary activities could already be carried out to try to clarify a story that is heavy enough for our country, beyond how this story will end. It is not said that there is only one way out of what is being discussed with regard to this subject, but surely the ascertainment of the truth is a necessity that we all feel. If the Ministry of Justice decides not to do anything and not to take any action (it was what I had basically asked for and the Minister's response seems that way), it becomes inevitable parliamentary action. We will therefore also consider this opportunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u34	Senator Perosino has the right to explain the question 3-01762 on the availability of spaces suitable to ensure social distance in the judicial offices, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u35	Minister, I understand your commitments and your responsibility in such a sensitive and vital area for the functioning of the State and democracy (see previous question). However, I would ask you to go further than the report prepared by your offices, which you have certainly seen in response to my question. The anti-Covid regulations (decree-laws, DPCMs, ordinances and decrees) aim to avoid assembly and practice social distancing. The courts suffer chronically from lack of space. In the contract of Government of Count 1 there was provision for the revision of the suppressed courts; Legislative Decree No. 155 of 2012, article 8, paragraph 4-a, provides that the Minister of Justice may arrange, within the framework of special agreements concluded with the Regions, that the buildings used for the service of the peripheral judicial offices and the detached sections for the exercise of judicial functions are used, for the necessary time. Then the 2012 reform can be revised and started the procedure of reopening the thirty courts suppressed up and down Italy, while using the buildings, as peripheral judicial offices and detached offices of the merging courts, in order to ensure the functioning of the justice. Emblematic is the case of the Province of Cuneo, where out of four courts three were suppressed: two in Mondovì and Saluzzo joined to Cuneo and Alba merged to Asti. The building of Alba, almost new and functional, is available, subject to agreements with the Region and the Municipality, being in the center of economically strong area and with a basin of 200,000 inhabitants, being the old jurisdiction of the court of Alba extended also to a part of the Province of Turin. Anti-pandemic prevention is not expected to be short. Hoping that the acute phase has passed around the world and the disease is in remission, we certainly go towards a new lifestyle and new habits in social relations. Therefore, my request, on behalf of widespread instances and interests (Law No 241 of 1990 and subsequent amendments), is the reopening of the thirty courts that have been abolished in and out of Italy, not even today understanding the reasons for the reform either economically or functionally. I therefore look forward to your reply and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u36	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u37	Mr President, I understand the concerns of the interrogating senators, who ask to know the initiatives they intend to take to ensure that in the ordinary course of judicial activity the preventive protocols for Covid-19 are respected, since the deadlines for implementing the organisational instruments provided for in Article 83 of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, as amended and supplemented, have been advanced to 30 June 2020. I would like to point out that, at every stage of the emergency, the Ministry has provided the judicial offices with all forms of assistance in the organization of judicial activity, including through general circulars, aimed at providing guidance to ensure the uniformity of the way in which organisational powers are exercised expressly entrusted by the legislator to the managers of each judicial office. I recall, for example, the circulars of the head of the department of judicial organisation, staff and services, dated 2 May 2020 and 12 June 2020, issued precisely with a view to the full recovery of judicial activity. Since the first phase of the emergency it has been evidenced the necessity to adopt organizational and logistic measures aimed to the protection of the health and hygiene of the environments and the safety of the premises. The judicial offices were immediately authorised to make direct purchases of sanitary equipment, as well as an adequate number of respiratory protection devices. In addition, a simplified procedure was laid down for the management of requests from judicial offices relating to plexiglass walls and bulkheads and a number of temperature control instruments were developed. Support and guidance are also being offered to offices on cleaning and sanitation of ventilation systems during the summer period. Corollary of the measures most notably hygienic and sanitary ones remain those logistic and organizational ones, among them: the regulation of the access to the services; the establishment of paths dedicated to the user; the management of a database of the better classrooms, in order to better ensure the social distance and the other health prescriptions. Certainly, the need to maintain social distance is intersected with the problem of spaces, especially because of the need for the resumption of so-called judicial activities in the presence, with an increase in the influx of users, employees, magistrates and lawyers, a requirement also signalled by the Inspectorate for the public service, with notes addressed to various judicial offices. On the point, the acquisition of new spaces by means of the use of the instrument referred to in article 8, paragraph 4-a, of Legislative Decree no. 155 of 2012, which gives the Ministry of Justice the power to agree with Regions and Autonomous Provinces in order to temporarily arrange the use of the buildings of the so-called abolished judicial offices, with remuneration of the staff and expenses charged to the budget of the Region, does not appear of immediate practicability, requiring technical times that are not compatible with the needs of emergent character proposed by the interrogators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the right to speak in response to Senator Perosino for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u38	Mr President, I have not been convincing enough, but I assure you that my request is politically transversal and corresponds to the ideas of all those who have to do with the world of justice, not only in the court to which I referred, Alba, in the province of Cuneo, but throughout Italy, having spoken about it with colleagues from every party. You know that the economic and social desertification of entire areas, neighborhoods, various economic activities, with changes in habits and users' disservices, have occurred around the closed courts and the seats that have been abolished, and today they also make 70-80 kilometres to go to the courts that have been merged, with costs, times and even pollution. The National Committee of Courts has been audited by you. I would ask you to try to hold a second hearing. You know that there is a parliamentary intergroup on judicial geography, which should have made visits, but it got stuck in 2019. In my opinion, what you said, and that I could assume, is also right, but that is not all. It is also necessary to disassemble - except for exceptional cases - the smart working in the courts, because the courtroom is something else: it is passion, it is sensations, it is an overview of the parties and requests from judges, prosecutors, lawyers and defendants themselves. In the funds, of considerable amount, available for relaunching, perhaps there is also a small amount for reopening, which corresponds to the real economy and to judicial functions in a shorter and more secure time. I invite you, as far as possible in a question time, to reconsider the matter together with your collaborators, waiting for a better answer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u39	Senator Iannone has the right to explain the question 3-01761 on the assignment of the activities necessary for the start of the school year to the Special Commissioner for the emergency from Covid-19, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u40	Minister, for months the Brothers of Italy Group has been trying to transfer them, without results, all the concern for the moment that lives the world of Italian school. We have in any case denounced that the government had taken the wrong paths and choices that have left the whole world of school very perplexed - to use euphemism. Moreover, we brought our proposals of common sense in a timely manner, during the discussion on the school decree (a completely wrong decree, in our opinion) and none of our suggestions were accepted, which reflected the demands of the whole world of school, from pupils to families, to teaching and non-teaching staff, to school leaders. Nor did we fail to represent you with all your concern about the start of the new school year, with regard to conditions and timing. The Italian government is the only national government that does not have a model for the school. We learn from the drafts of the decrees that flutter and from the declarations, in a triumph of the formula of the "except understandings," that it is believed to entrust to Commissioner Arcuri, that moreover has given bad proof of itself in occasion of the choices tied to the emergency Covid-19, the functions for the correct start of the school year. We ask you here, which is the home of the Italian people, of whom we are the representative, the confirmation of this decision and the reasons for which the Ministry intends to expropriate itself and abdicate to its own responsibilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u41	The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u42	Senator Iannone, the government is preparing all measures to ensure that the start of the next school year can take place in an orderly and secure manner. Article 235 of the decree-law relaunching establishes at the Ministry of Education a fund for the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, precisely for the adoption of the necessary interventions for the reopening of school institutions and containing the epidemiological risk. As announced, this appropriation will shortly be increased. With these financial resources you can derogate from the minimum and maximum number of pupils per class and activate additional teaching staff and ATA fixed-term posts for the next school year. For the first time in years it will be possible to reduce the classes too crowded, also thanks to the acquisition of additional spaces on the basis of the emerging needs of the individual territories, thanks to the work of the regional tables specially established. Moreover, the aforementioned decree-law has increased the fund for the operation of schools by 331 million euros for the cleaning and constant hygiene of school environments, as well as for the purchase of personal protective equipment. These funds have already been paid to school institutions and can also be spent on small maintenance operations to increase the availability of classrooms. The school leadership has not been left alone to deal with the problems at all. The Ministry's commitment, in all its components, even peripheral ones, is strong in addressing together with school leaders, local authorities and other institutional actors the critical issues of individual territories and schools, as I am directly experimenting with my participation in individual regional comparisons. It is in this broad and articulated framework of interventions put in place by the Government that the proposal present in the decree-law on simplifications must be placed to identify the commissioner for the coordination of measures of containment of the epidemiological emergency as a subject that, by virtue of the extraordinary powers and derogations, can also buy and distribute school furniture. The choice, already announced in the plan for the reopening of schools launched last 26 June, to entrust this task to an existing commissioner structure is the most rational: on the one hand it will allow a greater timeliness in the purchases, on the other it will avoid diseconomies and duplications. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Commissioner Arcuri and his structure which is already working to meet a new, challenging task in favour of the country's public school. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u43	I give the floor to Senator Iannone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u44	Minister, I must declare myself completely dissatisfied with the answer. I realize that there is a lack of contact with reality: obviously, you do not see or do not want to see what the Italian school is going through. The spaces are not there and you have difficulty in finding them; the staff, at this moment, is committed to being a surveyor and, above all, we are already in mid-July. You should know - who did the local administrator well knows - that the school year is planned at very different times and, therefore, let alone in the post-emergency condition that we are living. All anxieties, anxieties and doubts remain for pupils, families and teaching staff. I want to remind you of what has been done to our precarious teachers, to the magisterial graduates who the other day showed before the headquarters of his Ministry, to the third-class precarious people who were in Montecitorio this morning, all concerned about the tables for the evaluation of titles. Mr. Minister, really worrying about the Italian school needs above all an effort to understand the real needs. As for the Brothers of Italy, to entrust to Commissioner Arcuri, after what we saw during the emergency - the delays and discrasies in finding the masks and personal protective devices and all the shortcomings of the Government towards the citizens - is equivalent to entrusting the presidency of Avis to Count Dracula. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u45	Senator Alessandrini has the right to explain the question 3-01764 on the appointment of Domenico Arcuri as Commissioner for the safe recovery of school activity, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u46	Mr President, Minister, from what is learned from press reports, the Government, in the so-called simplification decree, entrusted the extraordinary Commissioner for emergency Covid Domenico Arcuri with the management of the restart of the school year 2020-2021. After expelling Parliament from its functions, the Government is preparing to do the same with the members of the Executive. To date, all the critical issues have emerged that have characterized the government measures in the field of school issued following the emergency Covid, beginning with Decree-Law 8 April 2020, n. 22, which contains urgent measures on the regular conclusion and the orderly start of the school year and on the conduct of the State exams, in which many aspects related to the management of the reopening of schools in September have not found an adequate solution. Even in the conversion phase there were many uncertainties, especially regarding the possibility of achieving the right distance between students, finding the spaces and recruiting the necessary teachers. Only at the end of June were the guidelines issued for the reopening of schools: a summary of generic indications and without the necessary technical analysis, without actions, methods and certain times, despite the fact that the drafting was entrusted to a specific technical-scientific committee. The president of the National Association of Public Managers and High Professionalism of the School reported that there is a need for 40,000 additional classes to ensure the reopening of schools in safety. In recent statements the Minister has put forward the possibility of using other spaces to create classrooms, but these are solutions whose practicality is not yet known. It was totally ignored, among other things, the contribution that 12,564 equal schools can make with their spaces, Minister, which - I stress - are present throughout the national territory. The idea of retrieving old abandoned schools or implementing entry into the classroom for time slots is doubtful. To express discontent in this general situation towards the Government, Minister, teachers, students and parents have expressed and continue to do so. In the rest of Europe, schools have been gradually reopened in compliance with security rules, ensuring full respect for the right to education. A survey by the Communications Authority revealed that 10 out of every 100 children were completely excluded from the online learning process and an additional 20 percent were able to attend courses only occasionally and the lessons were not clearly followed, because they did not possess personal computers, tablets and Internet connection. In fact, therefore, many students have been denied the right to study. The aim is to know what the reasons for the decision by the Commission to entrust Extraordinary Commissioner Domenico Arcuri with the management of the recovery of the school year 2020-2021. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u47	The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u48	Senator Alessandrini, your question prompts me to specify in advance the exact scope of the provision contained in the Decree-Law on simplifications. In contrast to what he says, the Special Commissioner is in no way in charge of managing the resumption of the next school year. With this provision, in fact, it is only expected that the Extraordinary Commissioner for the implementation and coordination of the measures necessary for the containment and the contrast of the epidemiological emergency Covid-19, referred to in Article 122 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, will have until the end of the emergency state of the special powers conferred in relation only to purchases of the instrumental endowments possibly necessary to contain and counter the emergency in the educational institutions. The start of the next school year - as I have pointed out several times - is accompanied and constantly supported by the Ministry of Education. Alongside the schools there is in fact a national directing booth, with coordination tasks, and regional tables located at the territorial offices of the Ministry, which - as I have already said - I am participating personally. We are committed to providing concrete solutions, respecting school autonomy. The guidelines you have referred to, already sent to all schools, are the result of comparison and sharing with the actors of the school world, the regions, the local authorities and the social forces: they are not at all generic, but they go in this direction. To the described activity - constant and widespread - of detection of needs, synthesis and search for solutions, as mentioned several times, is accompanied by the concrete action of the Government, which has allocated the financial resources necessary for the safe start of the next school year. This will allow to increase the teaching staff and ATA for the next school year to 50,000 units, based on the concrete needs that will emerge from the territories. We also continue to invest in technological innovation, precisely to overcome the digital divide that you have called for and to guarantee everyone, but indeed everyone, the right to study. I would remind you that the National Committee for ultra-wideband has approved an important school plan, providing for the re-destination of 400 million euros in favour of schools to bring the ultra-wide band to the door of each school building and to provide schools with free connectivity fees for five years. I would add that a further €29 million has recently been allocated to secondary schools of second state to finance smart classes. I want to conclude by saying firmly that no student will be left behind. The government is working every day to ensure the effectiveness of the right to study, together with the freedom of educational choice of families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u49	Senator Alessandrini has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u50	Minister, I find myself absolutely dissatisfied: once again we receive answers from you that outline a framework of totally unsatisfactory measures and disappointment is not only my party and my own, Lega-Salvini Premier, but it is also from the whole world of school and all the fathers and mothers who certainly expected much more from you and the government. Minister, I have two certainties at the moment: the first is that you are unable to manage the school in an emergency situation such as this. [[Applause]] ; The second is that she would not be able to manage the school even in a normal situation. Her Premier also noticed that she wanted to be a commissioner in some of her duties and did not consider her to be up to this task. Minister, I ask you, therefore, for an act of love for the school: resign from your post and give your place to someone who is truly competent. [[Applause. Some senators display signs.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u51	I would ask Parliament's assistants to speak, please. Colleagues, immediately withdraw the signs and, above all, make way. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, I invite you to resume your position. [[Brusio.]] You know very well that the display of cartels in this House is not allowed and, above all, the assistants involved cannot be hindered. I would ask Senator Arrigoni, as the Commissioner, to help the Presidency and the House to continue their work and to call their colleagues back. [[Brusio.]] It has been pointed out to the Presidency that photos have also been taken. You know that this is not allowed and the fact is obviously aggravated because the display of signs has been photographed, which is not allowed. [[Brusio.]] I would ask the quaestors to do all the necessary checks, which will be evaluated in the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u52	Mr President, Minister, since the Italian school was able to respond to the crisis caused by coronavirus with several exceptional measures, including distance learning, the teachers immediately started to provide their training, where they lacked, and to offer, as far as possible, adequate service to the students. However, it cannot be denied that distance learning has only worked in part: in some parts of the country the Internet has proved to be poor. Some students have lacked computer tools; for many others - I am referring in particular to primary school students and I am also thinking of my eight-year-old - distance learning has never started, because the tasks have been sent by email and WhatsApp for several months and then on an online platform, but without being able to take advantage of any live streaming video lesson. The distance learning has uploaded on the family context a series of tasks both economic and in terms of support and time that not all parents could afford, working outside the home and some in smart working. Although useful in the short term due to the management of the health emergency and despite the government's considerable funding, distance learning in the long term could lead to serious inequalities, especially with regard to the most vulnerable. The school dispersal is already high enough in Italy and at the end of the emergency could be higher. Finally, since the school must offer not only an educational plan, but also an educational and social plan, and since, as a result, it seems necessary that in September 2020 all students, starting from the youngest, can return to the classroom in a safe situation, I ask you what tools the government is putting in place to allow the harmonious and safe start of the new school year 2020-2021. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Education, Mr Azzolina, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u53	Senator Evangelista, didactics at a distance - as you mentioned - represented an instrument to guarantee the effectiveness of the right to study and stay close even during lockdown to our students and our students, especially those most in difficulty and with disadvantage, who risked amplifying the already existing territorial and social gaps that we have the duty to reduce and fight. For this reason, we have invested huge resources for the purchase of tablets, connections and all the digital tools useful for the benefit of the less well-off. Since the beginning of the emergency, also to support distance learning, more than 180 million euros have been allocated; resources that will remain at the Italian school, enriching it. Tablets and personal computers, which we bought to support our kids in distance learning, will now be a legacy for work in classrooms and laboratories. This Commission's priority has been and will always be to leave no one behind. Also for this reason, in recent days we have launched a further notice for a total of 236 million euros, based on the PONs, which will serve to purchase books and educational kits for over 750,000 of our students and our most disadvantaged students: a very important measure for the right to study and for the restart in September that will give support to families. Each first grade secondary school can have up to 100,000 euros and second grade secondary schools up to 120,000 euros. In this context, the start of the new school year is certainly a challenge. The government is facing all the necessary measures for the realization of an ambitious design: to have an enhanced staff, to avoid overcrowded classes, to have additional spaces, where necessary. The expenditure for the safety of school buildings has been accelerated, in constancy of the epidemiological emergency: last March a total of 510 million euros were allocated; an additional 320 million euros were allocated among the Regions in April; an additional 855 million euros were made available to Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. In addition, the results of the call for tenders were published, which made available EUR 330 million for the financing of so-called lightweight housing actions, as a result of the health emergency from Covid-19. In the concrete declination of the interventions to be carried out, the schools will not be left alone. The drafting of a specific safety protocol, modelled on what has already been done for the state exams, will accompany the start of the next school year. I myself have started to participate in the regional technical tables convened to analyse each situation and find appropriate responses together with the competent authorities - the local authorities - with a view to sharing and speeding up. These activities will already be supported by the next few weeks dedicated training spaces for all school staff on digital issues and security. I can assure you that the government will accompany every step of the return to school in the presence of our students and students. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u54	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Garnet for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u55	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for having responded satisfactorily to the postal question. [[Applause.]] I would also like to thank you for your infinite patience with regard to a demagogic opposition. [[Applause]] ,which contributed to the cuts of the Gelmini school of 8 billion euros. The gentlemen who pull out the banners and tell you to resign are the ones who supported the policies of cutting public school for 8 billion euros. [[Applause.]] You, Minister, have managed to obtain €5.6 billion for the public state school, which will be invested to enable our students to return safely and to improve the state of health of our educational institutions. Let us remember that school autonomy has been an initiative of the other political forces that have governed us in the last twenty years, so now they certainly cannot be the ones to give her the responsibility of the laws with which she has found herself having to operate, in respect of the local authorities, the school autonomy and, therefore, the prerogatives of all the subjects who at this moment are called to collaborate to resolve the emergency in progress. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u56	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u57	I inform the Assembly that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020 on emergency measures in the field of health, support for work and the economy, as well as social policies related to the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19 of 1874.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u60	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the House the paradoxical situation that is taking place in Umbria with regard to the strengthening of the Covid emergency hospital network in relation to the posts in intensive care. I would like to point out that this is not a polemical speech, but it is a request for sharing and helping to solve a problem that I expressed this morning in the margins of the plenary work also to Deputy Minister Sileri and on which I put a question. In Umbria, before Covid, 69 intensive care posts were available. After a hard negotiation but shared with the Government, in the end the Region has obtained 50 additional seats for a total of 119 places that will also allow to meet the needs of intensive care of any Covid patients both of whom, unfortunately, will eventually need intensive care for pathologies not related to the Covid. Unfortunately everything is not all right, because the repartition plan stipulated that 42 places would go to all the first and second level DEA facilities, which are seven, and the remaining eight places in the structure of Pantalla, which was the Covid Hospital regional for exclusive use. Moreover, all the political mayors accepted this decision and contributed to the strengthening. Unfortunately the government refused this part because on paper those places are not there, being Pantalla a basic hospital, the most recent of the Region - it cost 50 million - with five operating rooms but, on paper, it has zero places of intensive care. In fact, they are not expected but are present, because four sub-intensive and four intensive have been made. It would be necessary, therefore, simply for the circulars to say that, where the apparatuses are actually and physically present, they can be maintained and strengthened, otherwise we would be at the paradox of having to eliminate existing structures. On 7 July, the whole of the Regional Council, unanimously, made this request which - on the one hand - would possibly enable us to respond to the Covid emergency, if the disease were to return, and - on the other hand - would recover an underused structure for an obvious objective error of unforgivable design. Hence the request to the Government and the call for an opportunity not to be missed and not to bend the reality to bureaucracy, but to bend the bureaucracy to common sense and to maintain what is already there and would not cost an extra euro and for which local authorities and private individuals have also contributed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u61	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-238.ana.u62	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 14 July, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is adjourned (16 p.m.).
