ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 7 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u3	I communicate that on 10 May 2020 the following draft laws were presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Justice (Conversion to Law of Decree-Law No 29 of 10 May 2020 on urgent measures in the matter of house detention or deferment of the execution of the sentence, as well as in the matter of the substitution of pre-trial detention in prison by the measure of house arrests, for reasons related to the emergency medical emergency from COVID-19, of persons detained or interned for crimes of organised crime of the mafia, terrorist and mafia type, or for crimes of association related to the trafficking of narcotic substances or for crimes committed using the conditions or in order to facilitate the Mafia association, as well as prisoners and internees subject to the regime provided for in Article 41- bis of Law No 354 of 26 July 1975, and, finally, in the matter of talks with the relatives or with other persons to whom the condemned, internees and defendants are entitled (1799), by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Health (RS-Conversion to Law No 30 May 2020, Decree No.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Mr Senators, before we begin our work, I would like to invite this House to meet at a time of solemn recollection in memory of all the victims of terrorism. The day dedicated to them, which was celebrated Saturday, May 9, was an indispensable appointment with memory, an opportunity to honor the sacrifice of many Italians of value, among representatives of the Forces of the Order, magistrates, politicians, administrators, journalists, trade unionists, who were the target of the violence of terrorism for their role and for their commitment in institutions and society. But it is also an opportunity not to forget hundreds of women, men and children, victims of the ferocity of a lucid, premeditated and planned madness, which has no ideological justification. Victims for just being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Innocent deaths and injuries from bombs and attacks in Milan, Bologna, Padua, Brescia, Florence, Rome and all of Italy. Terrorism has no color but that of the blood of the innocent. Murderous violence and the strategy of fear can never be considered as forms of political struggle but only criminal acts against which the response of institutions and civil society must be inflexible. We remember, therefore, Aldo Moro, murdered on May 9 of forty-two years ago, after fifty-five days of a kidnapping that tore the country apart. We remember Domenico Ricci, Oreste Leonardi, Raffaele Iozzino, Giulio Rivera, Francesco Zizzi, who of Moro were the escort and who fell into via Fani in the fulfillment of their duty. Let us remember everything; let us all remember, because each of them tells us the tragic reality of how much our country cried because of terrorism. A truth that, in some cases, has not yet emerged dramatically. A truth that we have a duty to deliver to history, without shadows and without secrets. Because to fully understand the historical, political, economic and social causes that have been the basis of every drift of terror means to obtain the tools to prevent and prevent the risk of new violence. Above all, it means nourishing, through memory, a culture of peace, legality, respect, dialogue and freedom, which is the heart of our democracy. I therefore ask this House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u8	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments. Meanwhile, I share the fact that the memory is that piggy bank of the spirit that must be remembered, on founding occasions of the history of the Republic, with determination and firmness, because the defeat of terrorism was a sort of refoundation of the Italian Republic after the first referendum victory in 1946 and the Constitution of 1948. It became an appointment so long in time (over a decade) that it represented for long years a supreme challenge for the political class and especially for a multitude of Italian citizens. That terrorism had a name and a last name and it had a color. At that time it was defined by journalists as "opposite extremism," but those opposite extremisms had a common thread in considering parliamentary democracy as an enemy to be overthrown, as a sort of dead dog that had to be permanently removed from the midst. Whether it was neo-fascist black terrorism, or red terrorism, they both responded to a rhetoric of the revolution that once again dramatically sanctioned the defeat of the reformist canon in this Italy which had its success only after several years of struggle. The common thread was in the view that the State was not for everyone a depositary of the same values, of common and shared values, but was something else of itself. For the red brigades he was even an enemy to be rid of, putting into practice, not in words but putting into practice literally, that Leninist design that seventy years before had had more luck. I remember that only in the three years following the assassination of Aldo Moro, in Italy there were 230 attacks, 40 deaths and 50 wounded. Of many of these we have scattered the memory, the color of the eyes, what age they were, if they had children, wives, or a husband. We forgot them. These are those people that Pasolini called the children of the poor, clothed in the smell of rancid cloth, that a President of the Republic like Cossiga praised Valmy's rags. We owe it to that world, to those citizens, when the State did not always hold a leading position, the preservation of the values of that democracy to which we are particularly dear. In the attack of the red brigades and right-wing terrorism there was a sort of perfect recording of Italy, because no one was excluded, as you mentioned: teachers, workers, magistrates, politicians, entrepreneurs, ordinary people. An Italy that was able to react thanks to a political system that was then resisted, thanks to a state system that, despite some shortcomings, finally resisted, and especially thanks to the fact that a multitude, the vast majority of Italians, shared the reasons of the State, therefore the common feeling of the Nation, and not the reasons of an armed minority organized. The murder of Aldo Moro comes not to the end, but in the middle of this political framework: the most serious political murder in Italy after that, in June 1924, by Giacomo Matteotti. I confess, I am a partisan because my political history is born precisely with the abduction of Aldo Moro. He was born reading a letter, published in the newspapers of that time, which repeated - I say this in conclusion - a warning of Solženicyn, who, having spent a lifetime under a totalitarian state, claimed that a society where there is no impartial legal balance is a horrible society, but just as horrible is a society that has only a legal balance: yes, it is not worthy of man. Then they remembered very few of them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u11	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, first of all I must thank you, who had the sensitivity to bring the date of 9 May, a day in memory of our fallen at the hands of terrorism, in this House, on the solemnity of the Senate of the Republic. I must thank you and hope that the initiative that we have taken together, as the Senate of the Republic, Parliamentary Intergroup and United Nations, to celebrate, here at the Senate of the Republic, an international day dedicated to the victims of terrorism, fixed these days, can take place at the resumption of work after the summer break, given the special conditions that we are living today. It is important that we pause for a moment to reflect: forty-two years ago, May 9, Aldo Moro fell, perhaps the best interpreter of the ruling class of that time; a man who was the expression of his party, the Christian Democracy, but who has been recognized in history as the best expression of politics beyond party membership. Today I have the honour to speak in this Senate as elected senator in the city of Bologna, and, in my brief reflection, I want to start right here, from Bologna. Bologna was, in a sense, a city, unfortunately, fundamental in the history of Italian terrorism. In Bologna, in fact, over the years we have been heavily affected by two symbolically dramatic facts, which were the reflection of two different methods of terrorism: Bologna, 2 August 1980, the massacre at Bologna station; Bologna, March 19, 2002, the terrible killing of a servant of the extraordinary state, Professor Marco Biagi, who I had the honour of knowing why our families were strongly linked. Colleagues, I would like my thoughts - but I would say the thought of this Assembly - to go at this moment to our fallen on 2 August 1980, people who, as could have happened to any Italian citizen, were at the station of Bologna: they went to take the train or to take people who came by train, in an Italy that was preparing to go on vacation. Simple people who had never thought they were heroes, but who were heroes because it is also thanks to the sacrifice of personalities such as these (remembered in Piazza Maggiore by the mayor of that time, Renato Zangheri, and by the president of the Republic Sandro Pertini) that Italian democracy has ruled and our institutions have been solid. Silent sacrifices, solitary sacrifices, unexpected sacrifices. The method of massacres in Italy is not yet completely clear. I believe that we must recognise that, perhaps, in some of the state's apparatuses - not the State as such - there have been deviations that have not been completely clarified over the years. Certainly democracy is also made of analysis of the past. These analyses are in progress and it is right that we, together with memory and memory, also cultivate the value of critical analyses. ==References====External links== My thoughts at this moment go to Marina and Francesca and Lorenzo, the sons of Marco who saw themselves deprived of their dearest affection, their father, at a time when they were boys and were growing up. They were at school and found themselves in the hallway of the house, awakened by the noise, the corpse of the father killed on his bike back from Bologna station. Colleagues, Marco Biagi was one of the many fallen at the hands of a terrorism that was relentless, but on which we realized the unity of all political forces in condemnation and contrast. However, I cannot fail to recall in this House that in the years of the contrast between the Italian institutions, the Italian Republic and terrorism there were also salons of intellectuals who theorized with the State, nor with the red brigades, as if it were possible to have a sort of equidistantity and equalization between the State and its servants (policemen, carabinieri, professors, magistrates, politicians) and the red brigades that - history has clearly shown - in their crazy design have been stopped by the ability of the political class to assume responsibilities even painful, but with firmness. Marco Biagi falls twenty-two years after the massacre at Bologna station. This day was born from the memory of the discovery of Aldo Moro on May 9. Sometimes there are still very lively political and historical reconstructions about whether the state has done well or wrong in reacting with a firm line before the possible negotiation with the red brigades. Colleagues, I believe that the State has done well to take responsibility for a painful road because it would not have been in any way acceptable to negotiate between the State and the red brigades that were born to safeguard the life of a political man, when so many humble people fell at the hands of the red brigades. The state's firmness was painful, it probably also created misunderstandings, but it did not take away the greatest value from the Italian Republic: the credibility of combating terrorism. Colleagues, I want to end by addressing a grateful thought not only to the memory of these heroes, because these are heroes who have kept our homeland up, but also to their families, because if those who have fallen have been heroes, as many acts of heroism, silent and unknown, we have come from those families that have been so strongly affected in the most dear affections. I think the Senate was right to remember this dark season and these beautiful sacrifices, of extraordinary men and women. Memory is a value that we must pass on to our children, because today, in history, there is a creeping negationism, which is a mortal enemy for democracy. Even against negationism we must counter the value of memory and memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u14	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there are many, too many, about 400 people in Italy who have paid their lives for the violence of black and brigatist terrorism: magistrates, military, trade unionists, policemen, politicians, students, simple workers, simple servants of the State, simple citizens. It is to all of them that we want to dedicate today the thought of this House, on the occasion of the commemoration of 9 May, the day in memory of the victims of terrorism. Many are less known or even unknown in the collective memory, expression of the different social strata of society, but to each one we carry an equal duty of truth and justice, because all have fallen victims of violence, during a dark chapter of our country's history. Who was a servant of the country, who was simply in the course of his work, who was casually in the wrong place at the wrong time. There are many, for example, fallen soldiers, women and state men killed by black terrorism, during ambushes, robberies or attacks, killed because they were doing their duty. We owe all these people a debt of truth. Piazza Fontana, Bologna station, the attack of Via Fani, the massacre of Piazza della Loggia, the massacre of Italicus and many other heartbreaking episodes: every attack, every massacre that our country has suffered, besides many victims, has also left a deep wound, because you have not been in the conditions of preventing and avoiding those terrible events. Our task today is to do everything possible to ensure that such dramatic events do not recur again and the way to do so, in my opinion, is to work on the common civil conscience, raising awareness, making it itself the first embankment to the violent distortion of ideologies, which is already too expensive for our country. Then let us commit ourselves, without distinctions of part, so that the anniversary of the day in memory of the victims of terrorism can become an opportunity for collective culture, awareness, an opportunity for ransom and rejection of any form of violence. It is no coincidence that the date of 9 May for the commemoration of the victims of terrorism has been chosen. It was May 9, 42 years ago when, in 1978, the killing of Aldo Moro, after almost two months of agony, marked the apex of terrorist barbarism. A barbarism that ideologically and violently wanted to cut off the ideas of an entire political vision and of a man, that man who was the symbol of a political dialogue based on confrontation and mutual respect. Just from this ability to look forward, from the ability to seek a synthesis between different opinions, without fearing those who use violence to seem stronger, right here we can start again, drawing inspiration for the commemoration and for our commitment to memory, against all terrorism. Today, violence is increasingly portrayed as something positive, almost a power to be fed and used in increasingly varied contexts, from television to politics. You show off a bullying language, a nervous verbality, you prefer the confrontation to confront. Popularism often resorts to a prevaricating language, which makes the political contrast even harder and incites hatred against the individual, which leads to a verbal spiral, which can lead to physical violence against individual people. Today's commemoration can be an opportunity to reiterate a message of great topicality: a violent language must not be admitted against anyone, against any political opponent and must be valid for all, regardless of the colour of the party. That is why I would like to say that the threats that have been taking place in recent days against a courageous Minister are unacceptable. Let us not allow the aggressiveness of words to become a fertilizer for violence which will not stop at declarations alone. We must combat these phenomena before they become accustomed and are tolerated collectively. We must teach the new generations, even before we ourselves, that a strong idea does not need to be shouted to be right and that good politics, the one that gets results, knows only one weapon: that of democratic confrontation, exactly as Aldo Moro taught us. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u17	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, on 9 May 1978 the body of Aldo Moro was found, killed by the red brigades after five officers of his escort had already scrambled to kidnap him. Remembering the victims torn from terrorist violence is a duty of every Italian and certainly of the State. Every violence, every act of terrorism must be condemned for a duty of humanity and respect for human life. But that is not enough. All violence and all acts of terrorism must be persecuted. It is necessary to seek and give truth and justice. This is what belongs in various ways to the Forces of the Order and to the judiciary, to those who deal with information and education and to those who hold institutional offices. Otherwise, beating your chest at funerals, crying in favour of cameras is not only of no use, but it is also, ladies and gentlemen, a shameful disrespect. Aldo Moro died forty-two years ago, yet there's still too much to know. There's still too much darkness about that terrible season that saw him die at the hands of the red brigades. And then there are the massacres of Ustica and Bologna, referred to by Senator Casini. Today we must - and we have asked - descretate the documents concerning those events, starting from the Moro praise; only in this way can we give justice and truth to our nation, all too often victim of omissions and truth of convenience. You know, in 1975 Giuseppe Mazzola and Graziano Giralucci of the Italian Social Movement of Padua had already been executed. Yet, the master of journalism, Giorgio Bocca, defined those murders and others as "the eternal fairy tale of the red brigades" (as if the murderers could not be communists); then we spoke of the so-called red brigades; or, as happened with the murder of Mikis Mantakas, we spoke of the reckoning between the missins. It is not just a bad memory of the past, because every 10 February red stars and the violence of those who refer to that ideology appear again. Two years ago at the University of Padua, right in the city where the red brigades killed for the first time, posters were posted with the faces of the speakers of a conference, as if they were targets to strike, to prevent them from talking about the gold medal on civil merit at Norma Cossetto. The language had been so violent that it had forced the police to prevent the conference, because it was impossible to guarantee the safety of the rapporteurs. It is not just a bad memory, because it has not been so long since journalists and alleged intellectuals, some even with political positions, signed an appeal for the multiple murderer Cesare Battisti, demonstrating that the adherence or ideological sympathy are sometimes stronger than the condemnation of crimes and respect for the victims. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Or maybe because for someone human life doesn't matter and terrorists can be defended, helped, understood, maybe even esteemed, as if they were the heroes. At least Caesar Baptists was finally arrested. I hope no one thinks they're dumping it, with the excuse of the coronavirus, because it would be yet another slap in the face of those who have suffered his murderous violence. We are a little afraid honestly, because on May 9 it was also the anniversary of the murder of Peppino Impastato. We have seen how much respect there has been for the victims of the Mafia, with the released bosses and the dignity of Italy that requires the resignation of Minister Bonafede: sold, this dignity, to keep this Government united! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Cesare Battisti has been arrested, but how many terrorists have escaped abroad? How many were able to live quietly and comfortably, helped from here, while the families of the victims continued to mourn the poor loved ones killed, without even having justice? And the fault is not only of the executioners, but also of those who allowed this. There are too many cases without the answer and justice of left and right militants killed without mercy: I think of Valerio Verbano, killed in front of the parents, and I think of the massacres where they died and fell boys on the right, like Acca Larenzia, and I think of the machine gun Scorpion, that after killing the boys of the section will continue to kill in Rome and Florence, without anyone ever paying. Shall we talk about our men in uniform? Who remembers them? In South Tyrol no one felt obliged to remember the twenty servants of the State and the many civilians killed by separatist violence, that violence only a few days ago homaged by the writings of the new separatists, in the deafening silence of too much information and too many politicians. When a servant of the state dies, those who risk their lives for two money to protect us, the general concussion always lasts little, as if somehow it were normal, as if it could not interest anyone, almost as if they had sought it. Instead, criminals are dedicated films by romantic heroes, heroes who are wrong, comrades who are wrong; while for a carabiniere, a policeman, a financier or a soldier remain only the embarrassed silence and, if it's okay, a medal to memory. Then there is no point in a day for the victims of terrorism if we accept the shame of injustice. The minutes of silence make no sense, if you continue to keep silent instead of condemning. It makes no sense to shake hands with the relatives of the victims, if they do not seek justice, or worse they interpret it. On 29 April 1976 the Provincial Councillor Enrico Pedenovi was killed only because of the Social Movement; in the afternoon he would go to commemorate Sergio Ramelli, killed at eighteen years the year before. Sometimes I fear that nothing has changed, because this year, in the place where Sergio was squeezed, four boys were fined only for a crime of heart: to have gone in few, in safety, spaced and with masks and a very dangerous bouquet of flowers, to pay homage to him. Because there is an Italy that is not our Italy, that thinks it is better to forget and turn your head on the other side, or even justify. Not us, of course, because we remember every year and never forget to do so. And maybe that's why we make politics, because we don't just do it for those boys in uniform killed on the streets, or those who fell because they loved Italy too much. We do it for ourselves, because memory is the engine of life; we do it for those who do not know and for those who deserve to know. We do this for Italy that deserves its martyrs to be written in the book of its history. For this reason, for years now, we know and say that there are no more important deaths than others, as there are no ideological reasons that can justify the murder of anyone, even if of someone very distant from us. We have always tried to overcome the logic of opposite extremism. We believe that the political controversy, even very hard, can never come down on the level of violence, that violence that then becomes an alibi for those who think that politics can be made to sound of bombs or gunshots. We are children of Almirante, who went to pay homage to the corpse of Berlinguer as respect among opponents, but also as a warning to those who wanted to resolve the irreconcilable differences with the P-38. We've never been on the side of the shooter and the killer. Those who loved Italy and were killed by terrorism paid for their love and hatred of infamous terrorists, all too often protected. It is for them that we must remember, because - as the Danish philosopher Kierkegaard wrote - memory is a shadow that cannot be sold, even if someone wanted to buy it. He's with us, he's part of us, and he's a push to build the future. Let us remember then all the victims of terrorism, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us really remember, without hypocrisy, that, at least before death, there are no more victims of a minor God. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u20	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, the calendar brings us today to celebrate the date of 9 May, which our country has chosen to honour the memory of the victims of terrorism. On this day we remember first of all Aldo Moro and the escort men, slaughtered by the red brigades: he has already mentioned those names, but it seems right to remember once again Raffaele Iozzino, Oreste Leonardi, Domenico Ricci, Giulio Rivera and Francesco Zizzi. Today we also remember Peppino Impastato, killed by the Mafia that tragic May 9, 1978. [[Applause.]] Today we are here to remember the defeats of this terrible season, even if a few hours ago a girl was freed from our intelligence, a volunteer who had gone to help elsewhere, Silvia Romano, and on this day it seems necessary to express our happiness. [[Applause.]] Never and never do you fall into rhetoric when you celebrate the memory of people who died in attacks and massacres, targets of terrorists or innocent victims, men and women who were on a train or station, in the square or in a bank, by plane or on the street, and who, unaware, met death. We always say that they were in the wrong place at the wrong time: no, ladies and gentlemen, they were in the right place at the right time. [[Applause.]] Those faces and stories never belong to the past, but they live in the present, also because for many of these victims there are still no truth and justice. The same judicial truths acquired over time can be questioned even after years. That is why, forty years after the massacre on August 2, 1980 in Bologna station, the victims' relatives still ask for truth and justice and still know the real perpetrators of that massacre, in which there were 85 deaths and more than 200 wounded. That is why we are still asking questions about the abduction and death of Aldo Moro and his escort today. However, this is not the place to retrace the mysteries surrounding the recent history of our Republic: we should take into account the international scenarios, the Atlantic Pact, the world divided into blocks, the occult role of unfaithful parts of the State. It is clear to everyone, however, that the quality of our democracy depends on how we deal with our past. Of course, some of these truths are and will be a land of confrontation among historians, but others still live in the classrooms of justice. Truth is a right and seeking it is a duty for the institutions: it is the warning of the President of the Republic. Today we also remember all the victims of international terrorism, a very long list. I would like to recall here Antonio Megalizzi, an Italian journalist who was killed in Strasbourg on 11 December 2018, along with others, by a terrorist crying "Allah akbar" and the multiple attacks in Paris on 13 November 2015, the Bataclan massacre, a series of terrorist episodes that caused the death of 130 people and 350 wounded. Among those victims was our Valeria Solesin, a gorgeous girl, who volunteered for emergency years. [[Applause.]] Broken lives, wounds open for all of us. It is difficult today to define terrorism: of course, remembering Aldo Moro, we can say that the Group of Red Brigades with that action wanted to subvert the democratic order of our Republic. It was the years of red terrorism and black terrorism, of armed insurrection against the democratic state and of black terror, and not only, to block the reform season, of the Centre that opens up to the Left of the parliamentary deployment. Secret plans to respond to the communist invasion, explosives and weapons hidden on the eastern front, military and civilian together in secret organizations, plans of rebirth of gellian memory. Terrible years for our democratic and anti-fascist republic. In the field have come down different actors of terror: covered Masonic lodges and apparatuses, Ours, a unique thread red blood and therefore from Portella della Ginestra to Piazza Fontana, to the massacre of Brescia, Italicus, Rapido 904, station of Bologna, Ustica, Capaci, via D'Amelio, via dei Georgofili, Milan, Rome, Moro, Occorsio, Alessandrini, Calabresi, Custra, Guido Rossa, Vittorio Bachelet. Allow me then to quote Pio La Torre [[Applause]] , Cesare Terranova, prefect Carlo Alberto dalla Chiesa, Piersanti Mattarella. Our democracy has resisted, despite the terror, thanks to men and women of the state, policemen, carabinieri, magistrates, representatives of civil society who have sacrificed their lives for legality. Democracy, however, has also resisted because the terrorists were isolated and rejected by the whole country. I would like to quote once again the Head of State Sergio Mattarella: "Terrorism has been defeated thanks to the sacrifice and uprightness of many, and thanks to the unity that the Italian people have been able to express in defense of the deepest values of their civilization. History has shown us that the unity and cohesion of Italians are the most effective instruments in the face of the most serious dangers. Wise words, of truth; at every massacre, at every ambush, the country has come to the square, from the North to the South, and I want to emphasize the fundamental role of a bulwark of democracy that the workers' and trade union movement's organizations have had. Then there was the transition from the First to the Second Republic, crucial years on which historians and magistrates will still have to answer the many open questions. In the third millennium we experienced a new terrorism, that of the Twin Towers, the caliphate, the attacks in Europe and the Islamic groups. Today is the time of asymmetrical wars, of kamikaze and autobombs, of suicide commando. More and more fragile democracies, with countries that think of responding to today's crisis, closing in their own borders, raising walls instead of bridges. When our constituent Fathers gave us the Charter, they thought they would protect us from wars. Peace, they wrote, never again wars. We need to rediscover those values, tolerance, inclusion. I would like to conclude by quoting a written by Aldo Moro of August 15, 1944, when the moral and material reconstruction of post-fascism was on the agenda: Only a life of solidarity is life of life. "Now," Moro wrote, "we have to go a long and difficult way; we have to rebuild. Let's start here. Let us all return to doing our duty with simplicity, without losing anything of the values that in every work done by men and for men are found. Well, we too, 75 years later, will have to rebuild our country, hit by the virus that has wiped out an entire generation and whose socio-economic consequences are and will be dramatic. An enemy virus, invisible and for this subtle, that has plunged us into a nightmare, into a scenario similar to a war that has forced all of us to deal with our own fragility, with the cracks that over the years had opened up in the Italy system, with new and unexpected priorities, with that creeping poverty that we have been obstinate for years not to see and that has expanded to enter there, where we can not fail to see it anymore. The rubble we're gonna have to rebuild a new world on. A new idea of society and life, work and culture. And we will have to put people at the centre, the fight against inequalities, doing our duty with simplicity without trampling on our values. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u23	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, the law establishing Memory Day for the victims of terrorism bears the signatures of many senators and senators, but, in particular, it bears two signatures that weigh especially for the personal stories of these senators. I am referring to Sabina Rossa, the first signature, Guido's daughter, and Rosa Villecco Calipari, Nicola's wife. The choice of the day that was made in this law, the choice of 9 May, is, as many colleagues have recalled, the date of the assassination of the President of Christian Democracy, the day when his body was found in the trunk of a red Renault in Via Caetani. In the different subversive plots that are intertwined at that time. on the one hand, neo-fascist right and reactionary footprint, with connivances also within state apparatuses, on the other hand, of extremist and revolutionary left, were the latter to spread, in particular with the terrorism of the red brigades. With Moro was hit the highest and most significant target. Aldo Moro kidnapped, held prisoner for almost two months and, finally, ruthlessly killed. A symbolic goal was not chosen, but it was decided to hit the main pivot of the political-institutional system on which republican democracy was based. Let us all remember that day, May 9th; just as each of us has indelible March 16th, the day of the kidnapping and killing of the men of his escort. I remember: I was a high school student in Genoa. It felt like something had happened, but we didn't understand, we all went into class. The professor of mathematics came in and, shocked, he told us: they kidnapped Aldo Moro, everyone gets out, the Republic is in danger, the democratic state is coming to an end. We all went home, worried, upset, in a surreal atmosphere that, even today, I remember as if it were right now. As I remember on May 9th, in front of that corpse, the stunned, dumb state. Do you remember the glass faces at the state funeral, that funeral that took place without the body at the will of the family? It was the image of a wounded democracy that seemed unable to rise again. Instead, he had the strength to recover. The season of the governments of national solidarity was short and was interrupted precisely by the assassination of Moro, but the seed launched some sprout made it flourish and made it grow. This is demonstrated by the fact that the state was able to close its ranks in the fight against terrorism and, in the end, won this battle. In the difficult moments, in the very narrow passages, the country needs a political class that knows how to take these shots. This is also a difficult time for our country. Today we are the political class and we are called to have this shot. Terrorism was defeated on the ground of democracy and the rule of law and it is important to remember it. I would like to recall a few words that President Napolitano said on the first day that this day was commemorated, on May 9, 2008: "What matters most, however," said Napolitano, "is to avoid any risk of the removal of such a shocking experience lived by the country in order to prevent any danger of reproduction of those phenomena that have so much cost democracy and Italians." Terrorism hit hard - as many colleagues have mentioned - scholars economists, military, managers, journalists, magistrates, politicians and institutions, the best of democratic Catholicism: Moro, Bachelet (of which this year marks the fortieth anniversary of the killing), Ruffilli. Those who had an important role to play in strengthening society and institutions, or those who were dangerous, who had strongly opposed it, were killed. We think of Guido Rossa, a communist worker who worked at the ILVA mill; he discovered that some brigadeists were trying to infiltrate; he was a trade unionist of the CGIL, he believed a lot in trade union battles, so he didn't shut up, he didn't get scared and denounced these brigadeists. For this reason he was brutally killed under his house, while early in the morning he was climbing on his utilitarian to go to work. Today I would like to recall, along with these better known names, all the servants of the state who have died and in particular one thought goes to the fallen forces of order. [[Applause.]] In their obscene communications the red brigades did not mark their names, they wrote: annihilated armed escort. We, on the other hand, must not forget these names, just as we must not forget all the citizens, all those people who died in Piazza Fontana, in Piazza della Loggia, in the massacre of the Italicus train, in the massacre of Bologna - just to remember the most bloody events - and to know that not all the truth has yet come to light and we must continue to seek it. On the very long list that we could make of men of the Forces of the order brutally killed, I too choose symbolically and also for today the names of the five escort agents that many today have remembered, starting from the President of the Senate, two policemen and three policemen. In the beautiful book entitled "The heroes of Via Fani" the young historian Filippo Boni goes to search for the testimonies of their family members just to be able to tell us their lives, so that their history is not forgotten. Oreste Leonardi, the chief captain, the oldest policeman, is almost fifty-two years old, he is the man of trust of President Moro, always at his side; meticulous, he left his wife Ileana and two sons, Sandro and Cinzia. Domenico Ricci, Carabiniere, was also forty-three years old, was married to Mary and father of John and Paul; his son John remembers when he brought him to know the honourable Moro, that man so shy and serious, and the strong impression that came from this meeting. The three cops were the youngest, they didn't have a wife and children. Francesco Zizzi, thirty years old, Apulian, had a girlfriend, Valeria, with whom he had planned to marry, and three sisters (Adriana, Maria Pia and Sara); she loved playing the guitar and had received the assignment the night before; her girlfriend had communicated it and she had burst into tears. They never saw each other again. Raffaele Iozzino, aged 25, is the only one who manages to get out of the car, to shoot two shots before he died drilled by 17 shots; he came from the province of Naples, from a peasant family; his father Pasquale never recovered and it was his mother Carolina who went to collect the gold medal at the Quirinale. Giulio Rivera, twenty-four years old, was the youngest, also of the peasant family; first worker in Lecco then policeman; in 1977 he arrived in Rome with the important assignment in the escort of the President; an assignment that lasted only nine months because then also he was barbaricly killed: he was the driver of the alfetta. We remember Leonardi's gesture, the head of the escort: as the shooting begins, he gets up from the seat, worries himself, does not think of himself and this amazes even the brigadeists (the fact, that is, that at the moment of the danger of life these men did not think of themselves) and goes to President Moro to try to protect him with their own body. In that position he was found. It is the protection of others, without thinking about their own life. This gesture reminded me of Nicola Calipari's gesture when the shooting began at the checkpoint. She was with Giuliana Sgrena, who had just been released: she lowers her body under the seat - she is the same journalist who tells it - because in that way she would be safer, and puts her body on top of hers, to protect. Unfortunately, one of those bullets reached his head and the Sgrena felt Nicola Calipari's body heavy. I'll spy soon after. We must never forget the sacrifices of these servants of the State; we must never forget. Building memory is a civil conscience; we owe it to those who have sacrificed themselves for us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u26	OSTELLARI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too thank the President, and I do so for the message and sensitivity he has shown in allowing us the solemnity of this moment. The date chosen by Parliament to celebrate the anniversary is 9 May, the day when two men were killed, with ideas sometimes different from those of those who speak to you, but of which we admire - I believe in a united way - the rare determination and courage. I am referring to Peppino Impastato, killed by the mafia, and Aldo Moro, kidnapped and killed by the red brigades, with which the state decided not to deal, and that is a fact. Colleagues, I believe that the best way to remember those victims, together with all the others that have already been remembered - I agree also with what President Mattarella said - is to look for the truth where it is still missing; it is to tear the veils of omerta where someone insists on laying them out for convenience or fear, as also recalls a tweet, then deleted, signed by a protest movement that is recently pampered by some media. The best way to honor those who have sacrificed is to commit themselves loyally to the institutions and to the Italians in order to achieve a goal: the disappearance of all terrorism. I wondered, then, how I could do that, thinking about this issue. I've identified four points I'd like to talk to you about. The first: remembering what has unfortunately happened, and in order to really do so we must avoid censorship and exploitation: there are no victims and dead series A and series B [[Applause]] ; there are no less painful deaths, uncomfortable victims or executioners that can somehow be justified. There is the Constitution, there is the right and above all there is the supreme value of human life. The second: by educating the new generations and helping them to discover and love freedom. The third: by fighting intolerance and associations, formal or informal, which make violence a possible instrument of struggle, whether political, ideological or religious. [[Applause.]] Here too, it is necessary to open our eyes and not give anything to those who accept or even bear that violence can be a means to an end. It is necessary to make field choices, to abolish the "se" and "ma" choices; to be able to choose where to stay. For example, be with the Forces of Order, with those who fight in the front line without vanity from the living room. Fourth, by keeping those convicted of terrorism in jail. [[Applause.]] And I am sorry if someone from the benches of this House has some whispering, but it is necessary to keep in jail those who have killed innocent people, those who have dissolved in acid, those who have injured or threatened people, families and communities. I say this with pain because under no circumstances would I have wanted to witness the surrender of justice. I ask all of you: what do the victims of the Mafia massacres expect from those who allowed hundreds of bosses and murderers to be released? Who knows how to listen to the voice of conscience, can also listen to the voice of justice. [[Applause.]] Someone has already mentioned Solženicyn and I also quote him, recalling these words. And he was a terrified man. Who does not know how to listen to the voice of conscience - let me add - cannot be the Minister of a country that has suffered as much as this Italy. [[Applause]] Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. Terrorism does not only kill women and men: it is attentive to social cohesion; it destroys relations between friends, colleagues and relatives, just to use a term in vogue today; it threatens the state; it annihilates the hope that each of us must have towards others. In order to defeat it we must make a further effort and value the contribution to the common good of the victims. Even if his killers wanted him mute, he who died still speaks to us and, among the many, I also remember, as Senator Casini, Professor Marco Biagi, killed in Bologna by the new red brigades on his way home. He was a man of whom our country, in this difficult season, would need; a man who believed in skills and dialogue; a man who had made pragmatism his human and professional figure. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, dear President, dialogue, which is the best antidote to all forms of terrorism and omerty; competence, which we often see as lacking even where it should be overabundant; pragmatism and - I add - courage and responsibility. These are qualities that Italians, especially today, have an absolute need. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u29	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you for your words and for this further opportunity to remember the victims of terrorism. The many interventions have remembered facts, circumstances, victims and protagonists of dramatic moments of Italian life. This year the circumstances did not allow to give rise to the celebration that often took place, even in the Senate Chamber or at the Quirinale. However, the speeches of the President of the Republic and his words and also these moments of memory of the Groups, to which Forza Italia associates, allow us not to drop the anniversary of 9 May that we celebrate today. Many names have been mentioned besides that of Aldo Moro and I thank those who have done so. As has been mentioned, the date of May 9 was chosen by the law precisely because the killing of Aldo Moro, which took place on May 9, 1978, represented one of the hardest and most dramatic moments of the terrorist offensive, in that case of the red brigades. Some have also remembered Zizzi, Iozzino, Rivera, Ricci, Leonardi, the escort men who died on March 16 of that year in that military act that someone called of geometric power. Someone forgot that in those years, while the stocks were being killed, terrorism sowed the cities dead and Gustavo Selva opened the edition of the Radio Newspaper every morning telling of a gambizzato, a wounded and - alas - sometimes a dead person, they came out newspapers and periodicals describing those events. I remember the phrase of the geometric power of Piperno and others and those newspapers were found in some bookstores and in some places. The area of flanking and tolerance was vast and not persecuted in time, so much so, as some colleagues recalled, that the machine gun Skorpion with which Bigonzetti and Ciavatta were killed, two right-wing militants in Via Acca Larenzia, was later used to kill Lando Conti, former mayor of Florence and Professor Ruffilli. The red brigades used the same weapon, as the investigation said, a strange weapon, which had passed into many hands, so much so that even a collector singer had possessed it. This proves that not only the weapon had passed, but people had passed by with that weapon. If some crimes had been prosecuted in time and carefully, perhaps others would not have occurred. Let us remember the underestimation of the so-called red brigades, or so-called red brigades: it took years. Mr President, you mentioned many cities and you mentioned the massacres of Piazza Fontana in Milan and the massacre in Bologna. These are dramatic moments of Italian life, which tragically mark the collective memory of the country, but in his city, in Padua, there were the first two deaths from the red brigades, whose name I want to remember: Mazzola and Giralucci, two militants killed in the headquarters of their party. Then it took time to accept the claim of the red brigades. If you go to the hemeoteca looking for the headlines, even important, that still come out, you will see that they are dramatic, because they denied the evidence. With this I do not want to underestimate other dramatic pages and the faults of those who have killed in the name of a black terrorism and other matrix of violence, which must be condemned with great force and determination. Mr President, in the last parliamentary term, Mr Giovanardi and I asked for, for example, the descretation of certain acts, and I appeal to you, as President of the Senate, not to give only a ritual spirit - which would already be important - to this speech. I am referring to the desecuting of certain acts, which, as members of the so-called Moro Commission, which was also rebuilt in the last parliamentary term, we have been able to see, with the bond of secrecy. Then, in reality, interpretations came out in many newspapers and it is a little bit of a secret that has been widely violated. I've kept to that secret and I'm sticking to it on this occasion as well. There are important interpretations of the recent history of terrorism, of the massacre of Bologna, for which there are final sentences, but there are also many aspects to be clarified, or of the case of Ustica, another story of terrorism remained in many ways without a truth. I therefore appeal to you, together with the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the President of the Republic, to be able to desecrate acts, which may serve in judicial or historical fora, because sometimes it is the historical fora that must serve to rebuild a truth. In fact, many things can be understood, in times of radicalization and Islamic terrorism, which perhaps make even the recent Italian history interpret. The history of terrorism is long, many episodes have been mentioned and it is also right to mention the massacre of Portella della Ginestra. Days ago, the President of the Region of Sicily, Musumeci, went to the place of this massacre, dating from the immediate post-war period. It was a mafia terrorism, because it was such. It took a film, which I invite you to see, a few years ago, to remember tragic mistakes of the Second World War, when the Americans, to take control of the territory, with Lucky Luciano and other characters, brought back to Italy mob bosses - other than the release of these days! - naming them mayors and directors. That was also a convulsive season of separatist temptations. There was a recent film by Pif, who tells it: so it is an unsuspecting source. Even the massacre of Portella della Ginestra is therefore registered in the history of terrorism and certainly is, because workers were affected, who celebrated May 1. So there's a story that needs to be revisited. We have to remember all the victims, so that law was important. I would also like to remind you that the life-senator Giorgio Napolitano, as President of the Republic, in the first years of celebration of that anniversary hosted her at the Quirinale, with important events. I am grateful to President Napolitano because a publication of the Quirinale, made in those years, reported the list of all the victims of terrorism and were inserted names, which for a long time had been omitted, because they considered themselves victims of political violence. Therefore, there was this philosophical difference, as if there were a border between political violence and terrorism, when these borders are very labile. President Napolitano, in a publication published by Quirinale on the occasion of the celebration of the day on terrorism, has included many names, including some I mentioned. There were moments of recomposition of memory, when in Rome, on a public stage, Giampaolo Mattei, of the Mattei brothers, killed in the stake of Primavalle, and the mother of Valerio Verbano, a left militant, horridly killed in front of the family in his house, obviously by terrorists who belonged to the extreme right. There was a moment of public encounter, which sparked discussion, because the one and the other typhoseries believed that it was not the case; but perhaps it was the case that the encounter was celebrated as a sign of peace. Even on the massacre of Primavalle there are lightning truths, which have been concealed and denied, and responsibilities that then even authoritative newspapers had contributed to denying. I therefore believe that, on these occasions, the common intention must serve to remember together all the pages of horror of Italian history, from the first victims of the red brigades, Mazzola and Giralucci, to the last, which has been remembered several times, Marco Biagi, preceded in Rome by Professor D'Antona. In the final phase, the red brigades, in their new edition, hit the Juslavorists, precisely to give a signal that they want to hinder the modernisation of legislation in the field of labour law, social relations, which must obviously be interpreted by channels that must be those of our time, guaranteeing rights, but in a different conception. The red brigades have chosen these as their last targets. Together with them, over the decades, they have been remembered (and I associate myself with the memory) belonging to the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces, by those hit in South Tyrol in the 1950s and 1960s, to the most recent victims. Rightly, in many cases, the great victims of the mafia massacres are also considered victims of mafia terrorism. This has rightly been discussed; some acts - let us think of the massacre of Capaci - have had a beastly and criminal power to assimilate them to acts of Lebanese terrorism, it would have been said once, for their devastating power. These occasions of remembrance are also used to re-study, desecrate, look into the past, avoid mistakes, at a time when political debates, even harsh, fortunately remain within a fence of confrontation and democracy. However, the issues of radicalisation, of a different offensive, with Italian victims, were also mentioned a moment ago. The young journalist Megalizzi was mentioned, killed in Brussels; but how many other victims? Italy has experienced less than France, the United Kingdom, Spain, the United States this fundamentalist terrorism emergency, but we are prosthetic in the Mediterranean, so we are not immune to risks and dangers. We must fight fundamentalism. Italy is that Italy that said no to the negotiation at the time of Moro, with a huge sacrifice; and then, in other phases, it treats and discusses with governments of every color. I do not want to say this, but even in these hours we are wondering whether or not we should deal with what, after all, is terrorism, which imposes logic, violence and a psychophysical subordination that produces dramatic effects. I therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that today terrorism has taken on other faces, which would like to rouse themselves of religion and culture, but which are made of intolerance, violence, rejection of the logics of democratic coexistence and confrontation, even the harshest, which we in this House too have had and will perhaps have in half an hour, but in the beehive of democracy and freedom, which terrorism, of whatever origin, internal or international, has always tried to deny. Recalling those victims and those names (there would be hundreds to speak in this House), we then want to defend freedom, democracy and values that terrorism has failed to destroy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u30	Senator Gasparri, I would like to inform you that President Fico and I have taken up the appeal aimed at the descretation of the acts, with the hope that the truth will finally emerge on some major investigations; with this intention, since the beginning of the legislature, we have given rise to a serious investigation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u33	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, the Senate today renews its closeness to the families of the victims of terrorism and massacres and, on the solemnity of this House, confirms its commitment to remain at their side not only to remember, but to ask for justice once again, to ascertain the many truths that have been silent or to be sought and to ask for account of the many international intrigues and the intrigues that have fueled terrorism and the massacres. Certainly we have the duty of memory; remembering is a way to treasure the past, but also the best way to prepare ourselves for the future. The wounds leave scars sometimes deep and the wounds suffered by the national community during the years of terrorism and massacres were many: dead, blood and mourning that still today ask us all a choral effort of cohesion and civil commitment, so that for those long and painful events the whole truth emerges, the only one able to truly honor the memory and sacrifice of the victims. It has happened to many of us, I believe, to witness the reading or to scroll through the very long list of the names of all the victims of terrorism and massacres: it is a painful and boundless list. But if for a moment we wanted to choose just one of those names and stop to reflect on that single story, we would better understand that that name was also a face and an existence, that that name had a family, affections, plans and expectations and that suddenly all this was taken away from him, broken by the inhuman murderous madness of someone. On the "someone" I will come back to say later, but if we reflect on this - I said - the anguish would assault us, together with the awareness that in seventy-four years of history of the Republic a real and authentic civil holocaust has been consumed. A long and painful list, starting from December 12, 1969, with the bomb of Piazza Fontana that marked the beginning of the period of the so-called strategy of tension, then passing to Peteano, to Gioia Tauro, to Piazza della Loggia in Brescia and to Ustica; and then the Italicus, the massacre at the station of Bologna, the plan of rebirth of the loggia P2, the terrorism of the subversive right, that of the red brigades, up to the nineties and massacres of mafia in a land like Sicily, or in a city like Palermo where no more of house was left and where, in a little more than a year, 500 people were killed, as in a civil war; Dead to the Pirandello: 250 killed in the street and 250 disappeared in nothing, divided equally, as said that great magistrate and citizen who responds to the name of Giuseppe Di Lello, who from here greets, instructor judge of the Caponnetto pool, survived by pure chance to the mafia tritolo packaged for Rocco Chinnici. All this while unfolding the geometric firepower of the Corleones Riina and Provenzano, who wanted to use all their war violence to incinerate the lives of the judges Falcone and Borsellino and their escort agents, deceiving themselves to blow up with the bombs not only those lives, but also that stele of justice and legality that the two magistrates represented, to open the doors to terror and toasts that from the cells of the Ucciardone blessed so much ruin. From there, from that shed blood came out an extraordinary response, beginning with the people of Palermo, who wanted to scream their pain and rejection by filling the balconies of the city with white sheets. This too was not enough, for shortly thereafter whole families, the victims of that sacrifice, suffered beyond harm the mockery, that is, the outrage of the half truths. Thanks to the work of valuable investigators and magistrates, we have succeeded in arresting senders and material executors of those massacres (even if not all); still today, however, there are pieces of truth, important cards to complete the mosaic of terror that tells us, once again, of deviant apparatus of the State and of unfaithful servants, who before and after those massacres have continued to throw away, conceal and plot. For these even Riina and Provenzano were only the armed arm of a project, even political, subtle and sophisticated, so much so that, for these shadow lords, it was almost a game to be responsible for the killing of servants of the State, magistrates, policemen, policemen and all those innocent victims who, as their sole fault, had to do their duty as citizens dedicated to the good of the nation. They were moved by the same sentiments of which Aldo Moro was animated many years ago: in this case too, however, not only the family of the Apulian statesman, but we all bitterly paid for those crimes perpetrated by the red brigades, which struck not only politicians and forces of order, but also leaders, industrialists, journalists, trade unionists and workers. Many in those years adopted the slogan "neither with the state nor with the red brigades" and we also learned to hear the fateful phrase "it is not with the terrorists".Unless we discover that inside the crisis unit that was to save Aldo Moro - not that of the Viminale, but the one that was meeting at the Ministry of the Navy - sat piduists, CIA men and senior officers of our deviant secret services, all unanimously agreed that Aldo Moro had to die; just like, fifty-five days before all his escort men had died in a sophisticated terrorist action - as professionals, I would say - since they could not even risk to hurt the president of the Christian Democracy. Mr President, it was 2014 when the then Prime Minister Matteo Renzi announced the publication and descretation of confidential and secret acts of all state administrations on the massacres carried out since 1969. And we all hoped for an epochal turning point, which could have written the word "end" to the cold war, opening the drawers and opening the closets of the archives to let some light in on that part of republican history that for years has skilfully moved behind the massacres, the throws, the plots and the international covers. That directive - alas - of real and deep light did not bring even one blade and the whole country, all of us, and especially the families of the victims of that chain of blood and horrors, we still expect to know those famous truths. The country and this government today have a heavy debt of truth to these families that can no longer wait and that must be honored even overcoming, with an act of institutional courage, all those pressures, interferences or threats that could come from other national or foreign administrations that have interest in that the truth remains buried together with their victims. We hope that this will happen as soon as possible. We hope - and I would like to address President Conte - that the Government will put in place the most extraordinary discovery that European history - not only Italian - remembers. We really hope, President Count, that in the world that is expected after the pandemic of the Covid-19, where every day it is repeated that nothing will have to be as before, it will finally succeed - as the late Franco Giustolisi would say - to open the closets of all the shames in order to be able to look inside and to clean up the skeletons, always with the hope that someone before us has not already made the "season change," making definitively disappear from the famous drawers the traces of all the stragist plots and their leaders, who for too long have unpunished the democratic integrity of our Republic, beginning with that armed phalanx nested in the seventh division of the Sismi, which together with their colleagues specialized in the use of explosives and in the non-conventional war, are, even according to Ambassador Fulci, at the time head of the Executive Committee for Information and Security Services (CESIS), responsible for the strategy of the bombs and attacks that, in the summer of 1993, made shout at the coup of State the now head of the Government and the future President of the Republic of the Republic of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u34	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders, which met on 7 May, approved the timetable until 21 May. The agenda for today's sitting includes the debate on motions for resolutions on gender equality and support for working women. At 9.30 a.m. tomorrow, the question time will be held with the presence of the Ministers of the Interior, of technological innovation and of agriculture. At 11 am, the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport will inform on the Ministry's initiatives to deal with the emergency from Covid-19. For both subjects, direct television broadcasting is planned. It will also be possible to discuss, in the event that the Commission concludes, the decree-law on the progress of the school year. Next week's schedule provides for the examination of the decree-law on the progress of the school year and the decree-law on the epidemiological emergency Covid-19, where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies. Thursday, May 21st, the question time is expected. Finally, on a proposal from the President, the Heads of Groups unanimously agreed that this week the Assembly and the Commission should resume their ordinary parliamentary activity. The arrangements for hearings with videoconferencing of the persons heard and the meetings of the Commissions, which must take place in accordance with the security measures prepared by the Quaestors, remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u35	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 7 May 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 21 May 2020: [[Tuesday 12 May h. 16.30 - Motions on gender equality and support for working women - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Wednesday 13, 9.30 a.m.) - Information of the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport on the initiatives of the Ministry for Youth Policy and Sport to deal with the emergency by COVID-19 (Wednesday 13, 11 a.m.) - Drawing of Law No. 1774 - Decree-Law No. 22, Conclusion and start of school year and conduct state examinations (expires on 7 June) (where concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 13 " h. 9.30 a.m.]] [[Tuesday, May 19 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 1774 - Decree-Law n. 22, Conclusion and start of school year and conduct of state examinations (decades on June 7) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 19, Ecological Emergency COVID-19 - (where approved and transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on May 24) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 21, 9.30) Wednesday 20 " h. 9,30 Thursday 21 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No... (Decree-Law No 19, Emergency Covid-19) will be set in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1774 (Decree-Law No 22, Conclusion and start of school year and conduct of state examinations) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 30' FI-BP 1 h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 7' PD 49' Mixed 41' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 19, epidemiological emergency COVID-19) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 4' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' PD 35' Mixed 29' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u38	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the League Group, we are making an alternative proposal to the timetable because we are calling for this week to discuss the motion of censure against Mr Bonafede, tabled by the entire opposition. Moreover, let's do this exercise: try to imagine if such a situation, with the revolt of prisons (with some dead and injured and the strong suspicion that these revolts were fed by organized crime in order to lighten the penitentiary regime) and then the famous question of the so-called care Italy (with that law that establishes a dangerous link between risk of contagion and state of detention, the circular of the Department of the penitentiary administration and the release of some mob bosses) had occurred to inverted parts, that is if we had been to the government and there had been any minister of our political part, what could have happened. [[Applause.]] In addition to all the newspapers, televisions and the media, European Commissioners would have been uncomfortable to criticize Italy's action. In my opinion, the UN would have arrived, at some point, to say that all this was not right. We can imagine what the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars could have said: for example, Senator Morra or Senator Toninelli, or Senator Primo Di Nicola and Senator Mantero. [[Applause.]] I'm gonna close my eyes and guess. Mr President, so do you. Can you imagine the occupations we would have had in this House? Not that our simple will to continue the work demonstrated in recent weeks! And Senator Airola! That's right, Senator Airola, was missing him too, actually: let's think about what Senator Airola could do. [[Applause.]] Today, on the other hand, since there is a central-left government, some journalists immediately huddle around Bonafede and almost almost, we also approve a measure to put back the mobsters who came out. And some journalists, like Travaglio, rush to say that the government cannot release the mob bosses; as if objective responsibility belonged only to a part of Parliament and to a part of the citizens! [[Applause.]] In the face of all this, then, have at least the courage to come to this House to face the motion of distrust and take your responsibilities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u41	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I agree with Mr Romeo's request that we discuss tomorrow afternoon as soon as possible and, therefore, on Wednesday as the best day, the motion of no confidence presented by the right centre, in a united manner, against Mr Bonafede. President Romeo made the hypothesis of a reversal of roles, with a minister of a center-right government who was accused in this way. Undoubtedly, there would be a scenario hardly imaginable, but surely catastrophic and apocalyptic. Let us, however, confine ourselves to seeing only the reality of the facts. We have a Minister of Justice to whom accusations have been made: and not by a passerby, but by a magistrate who, before and after his mandate to the CSM, decides and will decide on the life of the freedom of persons, in more delicate roles (he is not in a suburban prosecutor who discusses cosmos, but he is in the anti-mafia prosecutor's office and today he is at the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the body that governs the magistrates). He accuses, more or less veiledly, the Minister of Justice of making appointments taking into account, as in some parliamentary procedures, the opinion of the Mafia bosses. A very hard, terrible accusation, which, however, remembers to formulate two years after the events took place. Therefore, if it is true what Dr. Di Matteo says, we have a Minister of Justice who should give other than resignation: much more should happen, between external competitions and so on. Even Dr. Di Matteo, though, waits two years to say such a thing? If this is not true (and of course the Minister of Justice, defending his good repute, said that he is not), this means that at the CSM there is a magistrate (who, I repeat, in his life, before and after the CSM, decides on the life and freedom of the citizens) who accuses the Minister of Justice of a connivance with the Mafia and, basically, of taking account of the Mafia to appoint those in charge of Italian prisons. [[Applause.]] A truly unsustainable situation, which cannot be resolved with a pleasant and helpful interview by Minister Bonafede, of which we appreciate the availability. He also came last week and answered questions and questions immediately, but there is a motion tabled in a unified manner by the opposition that we are asking for to be discussed. We cannot leave such a serious situation unanswered; however, if the timetable remains as it is, the motion should not be debated either this week or the following week, and this is unacceptable: we cannot stay for weeks with such an outstanding issue. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u44	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group also joins the opposition's colleagues in calling for an urgent timetable for the motion of individual distrust of Minister Bonafede. What has happened in these weeks, in fact, is of absolute gravity and in some respects unprecedented, even if the Senate and the whole Republic of disturbing pages have lived many of them, as colleagues who spoke in the debate a few minutes ago have also mentioned. It is of unprecedented gravity and Parliament must urgently resolve any doubts as to what has been stated by authoritative representatives of the institutions of the State. In this case, in the end, the possibilities are reduced to two. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if a very important prosecutor in the Republic engaged in the fight against mafia, Dr Di Matteo, intervenes in a popular television broadcast - two years late - to cast shadows and suspicions without evidence and without evidence against a Minister of the Republic, we do not understand what is waiting for the Supreme Council of the judiciary, of which Di Matteo is a member, to open disciplinary action and what is waiting for Minister Bonafede to bring Dr Di Matteo to court on charges of slander and defamation. [[Applause.]] We haven't figured out what's waiting yet. Or, Mr President, Dr. Di Matteo's statements that his appointment to the Department of Penitentiary Administration has been blocked by the will of the cosche, are perfectly and logically framed by a series of real circumstances - and unfortunately also verified - that have happened in recent months, starting from the revolt of the prisons, from Article 123 of the decree-law so-called care Italy that has opened the doors of the prison to dangerous criminals, starting from the circular of the DAP that has suggested the release of important criminals: 61 requests for release did not come from defending lawyers, but directly from the Directorate of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Justice. Then, finally, there is the shameful release, of which the ruler carries the whole load and shame, of important mob bosses. I quote only two: Pasquale Zagaria, one of the leaders of the bosses of the Casalesi, and Franco Cataldo, accused and condemned for having strangled and dissolved a child in acid, after having participated in his seizure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that the Senate must, as soon as possible, understand what we are talking about and who the responsibilities are: certainly not criminal, but political ones certainly. We do not want to hasten cutting judgements, but we do not know whether the Minister acted by fault or by malice (and I refer to two categories that the Minister handles very well), whether he acted by fear, distraction, neglect or tragic inadequacy to the role he plays. But we know with certainty that he is not politically innocent and the Senate must express itself on this as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u47	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of truth, a reconstruction must be carried out. If we stick to the facts, we must all acknowledge that when Minister Bonafede intervened on a live television telephone he confirmed the reconstruction of the facts previously operated by Dr. Nino Di Matteo, also because Dr. Di Matteo simply represented facts. Then, others - as I stress - took part in the same television broadcast advanced illations, inferences and deductions. If we want to confuse the logical plan - where everything is possible - with the plan of facts we are free to do so, and in fact someone before me has even said, that Dr. Di Matteo more or less veiledly... No, Dr. Di Matthew, neither more or less, nor very highly. [[Applause]] It has simply made a reconstruction of the facts, on which we can all lawfully advance assumptions, conjectures and deductions, but it is another plan. Mr Bonafede will certainly come to the House because he knows his obligations, and he knows them much better than some past Minister of the Interior - I think he is here - who has failed to do so. [[Applause.]] Minister Bonafede was auditioned in the Chamber this morning for information and I understand that Thursday morning will be auditioned in the Justice Commission in the House. He is also close to communicating when he can come to the anti-Mafia Commission. Consequently, since he does not have the gift of ubiquity, he will have to make certain commitments in order to be able to answer all the legitimate questions that all Members want to ask. But moving from the factual plan of reality, from the ontological plan to the logical plan, is a corbelleria that I leave to others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u48	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of the motion of no confidence against Minister Bonafede already this week, tabled by Senators Romeo, Malan and Ciriani. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00227 (text 3), tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, and 1-00231, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on gender equality and support for working women. I call Senator Conzatti to explain motion 227 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u50	Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, colleagues, among the effects of the crisis, Covid was also to split the country between guaranteed and unprotected. Our country already had very marked inequalities and this crisis has only exacerbated them. In particular, a particularly burdensome inequality between men and women has been exacerbated. We know that women were already less paid, had harder and slower career paths and did not get to the top. The crisis has exacerbated this inequality in the world of work, because among the sectors particularly in crisis there are precisely those in which women are most involved: trade, catering, personal care, communication and services. Women risk seeing their contracts disappear - sometimes part-time and part-time - laboriously reached; women who have invested a lot of energy and economic resources to follow their own vocation and open up their own individual enterprise risk seeing their dreams and investments fade and having to close. To this very serious economic situation the crisis in the services sector has been added, because without services to the family, for children, disabled people and the elderly women have been catapulted into a world of the past. Our country already had very serious problems regarding the reconciliation and sharing of working-family times, which weighed heavily on women. We already knew that women with children were 26 percent less occupied than women without children, but this situation is now in danger of exploding. 18.22 (Following CONZACTS). And that's why the government already immediately, in phase 1, has implemented important and very useful policies - from babysitting bonuses, parental leave - to fill these gaps and try to remedy them. But now all this will be extended for how long? It's not enough anymore. Now the government is called to invest, even by filling the gaps that are added from the past to create an extraordinary plan for employment... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u51	Colleagues, contrary to what can be imagined, having less voices in the House resonate more and therefore even a low profile conversation creates a disturbance. Therefore, please keep your voice down, because it is difficult to listen to the Presidency as well. Please, Senator Conzatti. CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. I said that this plan is also very important for fellow men, because women's employment weighs heavily in terms of GDP and growth in our country. Today more than ever we know - fellow men should know - that one of the areas in which our country should really invest is that of growth and women, from this point of view, are a precious resource underused. Poor female employment also has a negative impact on the birth rate, because a woman who has no prospects for economic certainty and no prospects for the future is obviously not willing to create a life that she cannot be sure of being able to take care of. It is sorry to be here today, in 2020, to talk about concepts that are acquired, because thanks to the World Conferences on Women, the European Treaties, our beautiful Constitution and the laws that we ourselves have approved, we have built a regulatory framework, which should guarantee equality in work, social life, family life and also in politics. I am very sorry to have to note these shortcomings. Therefore, the motion strongly commits the Government, the whole Government, from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to the Ministry of Economic Development, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to the Ministry for the South and territorial cohesion: all the Ministries must be involved in bringing our country to be competitive, using what it needs. The UN has specified it: one of the strategic missions for the millennium is precisely that of equality. We take this opportunity of great crisis, to take Italy where it must be.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u52	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u53	I call Senator Toffanin to explain motion 231.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, after dramatic and very difficult months, since 4 May we have entered stage 2 of the emergency and with next 18 May we hope to proceed further with other openings. The situation remains entangled: many protocols are missing, there is no precise timetable for some sectors and, above all, the measures taken reveal their inadequacy, with the money that, after weeks of waiting, have not yet arrived in the pockets of workers and businesses. Among the many problems to which the Government shows little attention is the issue of women's work, so all the Groups felt obliged to submit a motion, both majority and opposition. Forza Italia, Lega e Fratelli d'Italia with this motion also contest the constitution of countless task forces, which are assisting the Government in the emergency, for two reasons. Firstly, these are not just a few experts whose support can be useful in complex moments, such as the crisis we are experiencing, but a plethora of committees, in turn composed of countless commissioners: we speak of 450 people - I say: 450! - which, in conjunction with the continued use of the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, have exonerated and continue to exonerate the constitutional role of Parliament. [[Applause]] Let us remind the President-in-Office and his ministers that Parliament is the first government task force. [[Applause]] and within it there are skills and professionalism, represented by doctors, free professionals, entrepreneurs, administrators representing the territory, flowers of researchers and even Nobel Prize winners. We now demand and demand transparency and it is paradoxical that it has shone out of opacity precisely those of transparency who have made for years an electoral flag of their Movement. We call for transparency with regard to the criteria adopted for the application and selection of all components of the task force and to make known their overall costs of institution and operation. It is not just us MEPs who are asking for clarity about this, it is all the citizens out there who, even though they have not voted on any experts, are at the mercy of their decisions. The second point we strongly criticize is that, in addition to setting up these bodies, the Government has done so with discrimination, excluding female resources. [[Applause]] Yet, even in a medical emergency, women have been shown to be able to make a significant contribution to the common cause, such as the anaesthetist who identified patient number 1 of Codogno and the doctors who first isolated the strain of the virus of Italian patients, outposted by all health workers. I remember it today on the International Day of Nurses and Nurses, which we always thank. If the Government had made greater use of women's cooperation, it would not only have made use of its valuable contribution, but would also have sent out an important message in favour of women's professionalism in the field. Instead, the Government has missed a good opportunity, giving a bad signal to Italy and the whole world, to which it must remedy. But not in addition, as he is doing now, to patch up. Government, it is now more important than ever the issue of women's work in all its facets, with all the problems already known before the pandemic and now even more acute. The measures taken for lockdown have made it very difficult for thousands of women to take care of their children at home from school, their elderly parents and people with disabilities; I recall that the caregivers law is still in force in the Commission. The government has a duty to support the reconciliation between work and life. The babysitting bonus and parental leave are not enough; you need to reorganise recreational centres, kindergartens and kindergartens. In Italy, unfortunately, the services are lacking: the kindergartens are only in little more than half of the municipalities, too few. You have to invest first. On the other hand, you don't even think about supporting peer schools. Without school you do not work; mothers must therefore give up full-time work or, worse, tout court work. We therefore ask that the Government take action to support the work of women, with immediate measures to address the critical issues of the moment, facilitating part-time work and agile work, with adequate training also in terms of digitalization. At the same time, measures must be taken immediately, even in the longer term, to ensure that the gender gap runs out, that discrimination between women's and men's work is no longer mentioned, that pay is different in terms of equal roles, that women's access to boarding is difficult, that of the Gulf-Moscow law, that of pink quotas, that of women's low participation in the world of work. The crisis situation we are experiencing may also be an opportunity for women's employment, but it is up to the Government to influence it in this direction. The ability of women to face complexity, to share responsibility, to know how to find the right balance, combining concreteness with fantasy, are factors on which to aim in order to achieve important goals for a recovery of the economy. The crisis is the occasion of a watershed, signs an important moment of passage, with a definitive change of cultural step, in which it is essential that the basis of the assessments is considered the merit, to choose the best skills, not only for the success of women, but for the success of the whole country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u55	I declare the debate open. She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u56	Mr President, having heard the illustration from my colleagues, of which I naturally agree with the content, I shall concentrate on a couple of points, which I think are very important. These motions in fact contain two important elements, distinct and, at the same time, related to each other. A first point is the question of the task forces. I would like to focus on the concept of emergency: the emergency is an unforeseen circumstance, which requires immediate action. Therefore managing the emergency means carrying out a particular activity when unplanned events occur and that can cause damage; it is based on a set of rules, tools, procedures, aimed at reducing these damage in the emergency situation. Some aspects typical of effective emergency management are, for example, the availability of real-time information on the situation, the availability of systems... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u57	Senator Faggi, I'm sorry to interrupt. Senator Pharaoh, I understand that there is an organization of the work, but my colleague is speaking and rightly would like the government to listen to her.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u58	Please, Senator. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. The availability of effective data collection systems; good information systems capable of interpreting information from different locations; ability to assess possible developments in the different scenarios; ability to modify, as automatically as possible, the decision-making structure. Emergency is connected to rescue. What happened would have had to put this Government in condition, before setting up task forces, perhaps to worry about doing a permanent political work table together to evaluate management and, if he could not find professionalism, what the colleague before me listed, if he really couldn't give birth to anything, get to set up a task force, which, among other things, is of a pachydermic dimension. This task force is so redundant that it has still failed to coagulate that sense of immediate relief that the Italians needed and still need. The task force is a group of technicians and scholars who have to give solutions that then have to be translated into a political table. And when there is an emergency, this political table must be enlarged, unique and, above all, it must give clear indications. It seems to me that this situation has not occurred and I regret it, because indeed such emergencies have to happen very few. It happened to us, but it's basically like a war, only we had a chance of tools and something else that could have produced different results. The second point I would like to touch on is the composition of this task force, which actually brings in itself an inequality in terms of professionalism, and I am referring to women. My colleague, Mrs Conzatti, has already explained these forms of inequality a great deal, because in my view there must be no pink quotas or reservations in the task forces. When I think about quotas, other things come to mind and when I think about reserves, I imagine the reserves of wine and grappa; honestly, the "serves of women" are very annoying to me. In these task forces there must be people who have the head, the professionalism, the ability, the gift of synthesis and the gift of knowing that when there is emergency there is rescue, so the rescue is immediate. And it is a shame to read today that the President-in-Office of the Council (who I would have liked to have here today, because we were talking about women) wanted to "tamponize" the situation by indicating for the task force five authoritative and competent professionals. It would also have been nice if he had heard why we were all together to table this motion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u59	I invite you to conclude, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u60	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Very quickly, I just wanted to give two figures to conclude also what my colleague said: out of 144 countries in the world, Italy is at 82nd place for the ability to fill the differences and falls to the one hundred and twenty-sixth place if we take into account the only wage parity, equal work. If I do a job, such as the mechanic, and a colleague of mine does the mechanic, he earns twice as much as I do. And if I decide to have a child, this becomes an instrument of discrimination, to the point that twenty-four months after the birth of a child - and this is said by the INPS - women earn 35% less and are forced to go in part-time. Increasing the possibility for women means increasing a country's human capital and investing in its growth. A country that makes parenting and motherhood difficult - because that is what is happening - manifests a clear contradiction between the interest dedicated to the family and the concrete political choices and in this way compromises the future. I hope I don't have to be here anymore to hear about reservations and to be happy. I'm a senator, not a person qualified by gender. Like all my colleagues, I am trying to give for my professionalism and I am sorry that there is only one female representative in this House sitting there on the benches of the government - and I thank her for that - because today more than ever the whole of the female government should have been sitting there listening to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u61	Colleagues, I must remind you - and I did not want to interrupt Senator Faggi, because she was already speaking, so it was my lack - that we must intervene from the stations planned, which are those of the first row of each Group or in the benches of the Commissions. Try to keep that in mind, because then I'm sorry to interrupt you. She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u62	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I consider this moment of debate and debate as important as the motion and motions that we are talking about here in the Senate House today. In the speeches that preceded me, we have reminded us that, unfortunately, women are paying for the epidemiological crisis in particular. I would like to express from this House a sincere thanks to all Italian women for everything they are doing every day, in all their work, starting with the hardest and most at risk: I am thinking of women engaged in health care, social affairs, supermarkets, public administration and all the places where at this moment people are at risk in person, as well as putting their loved ones and their families at risk. The women have never stopped, this is the truth: they have had to bear the weight of the family and the work of care, so they were the first shock absorber to support a welfare that, once again, goes on thanks to their protagonism. I would also like to thank Mr Bonetti, who was the first to want a task force of women, not because they wanted to build quotas, but because they wanted to include experienced and competent women: we like this, to choose the competent women and the merit of the experts. I would also like to thank the Government for this opening of the President-in-Office of the Council to finally include women fully in the government task force. I believe that, thanks to our majority and minority work, we have succeeded in achieving this result. We must also remember that in these difficult months and in the coming weeks, in a period that will not be very short, we have managed to cope, also thanks to the tools made available by the Ministry for Equal Opportunities and for the Family, services, vouchers and support measures that help women and not only, because they also help men and I am thinking, for example, of parental leave. Of course, the themes are many, difficult, very complex and unfortunately were not born today with the epidemiological crisis. Unfortunately, we are carrying structural delays of twenty to thirty years. We are only thinking, as colleagues have pointed out, of the gap between women and men in the world of work, of the lack of equal pay, of full recognition of the work that women also do every day, twice as much as three times as much work that women have to face. Then it is clear that we need not only emergency measures, but structural measures, we need the ability to invest, we need to innovate a welfare system that is not so strong. I say this because when there is a deep crisis, such as the one we are experiencing, it is time to perhaps have new opportunities that women should not be caged up, but instead have to build a national plan of strategy and equality for women. We need it at European level, as we are already doing with many instruments, as we have mentioned in the motion. We also need serious measures of support and help because we know that a country recovers and returns to growth if there is a true emancipation of women that passes through an economic emancipation, passes through a job that is a stable job, that is not a precarious job, poorly paid and simply a last job, little important. I believe that even from this situation we can perhaps find a different way of building social policies that are more attentive to the needs of women. We know that if we build social policies that pay attention to women's needs, we build a sustainable system from all points of view. We see him looking out of Italy: when investing in women, the results are clear and obvious. Just as we must do to build emancipation in the apical roles, where women are still not there, where there are too few. We need a clear investment on this too. However, we also need a unity of intent, a more united work among all women, starting with women in the Italian Parliament, starting with women working in important ministries within the Government, and luckily we do. It is therefore necessary to build together new policies for a more attentive and modern welfare. It is clear that only in this way can we finally reconcile the work of care, the birth, the need to be mothers, to raise children together with their own men. I also feel, Mr President, here to appeal to our fellow men. We work together because it is not just a debate between women, it is a debate of the entire Italian Parliament and we want to do it together, women and men. I really think there are the conditions for doing all this together, let's not miss this great opportunity. I conclude by saying that the closed schools certainly do not help; it is clear that there are greater problems, there is an emergency and there is a health protocol, but we also think for a long time as Gruppo Italia Viva that perhaps the conditions would have been there to open or anyway to give more certainty to families in faster times than the organization. As well as, Minister - and I will also remember this tomorrow, on the occasion of the information with Minister Spadafora - we consider the agreement that you made, together with the Minister of Sport, on the summer centres very important. An important agreement, which will allow, at last, to enhance the third sector and, therefore, to build together policies that are more attentive to communities and territories. I believe that from this act, which we consider a moment of collective growth and also a package of concrete proposals for the development of this country, we can start together. I believe that. We believe in it and, like Italy Viva, we will support motion No. 1-00227 (text 3) at the first signature of Senator Conzatti. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u63	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u64	Mr President, reading the two motions that have been tabled by the majority and the opposition, we can certainly, in the meantime, derive (and I believe that is a positive aspect) that at least one point in common is there. Of course, in that of the majority it is more delicately explained and in that of the opposition in a clearer way, as is appropriate to our role. It is about the fact that this Government, which has not been able to respond to much of the problems of this period and of this crisis, which has failed to give answers to entrepreneurs, traders and fund-integrates, has failed, in fact, as shown by the two motions, not even to give answers to what is an important problem, shared by both acts, which is that of the female condition. Therefore, a majority motion and an opposition motion that - I repeat - converge, in fact, on the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the Government. Because, at a time when certain things are said, at a time when it is claimed that in the emergency Covid-19 the issue of women has not, in fact, been dealt with consistently, because it needs many improvements this means that, also on this subject, for the majority the Government has not been able to give answers. I do not know if this comes from the fact that the first signature is my colleague and co-regional of Italy Viva, party that in the Government has a function, let me say, kindly, of stimulus, if not of criticism. However, on this point I think I find some sharing. If we talk about the women's issue, I fully agree with the colleague of the League who preceded me, when she says that, of course, I put the problem, the visions are different. There is the vision of a left who sees the woman more as a subject to be placed and protected as if she were in a fence, in isolation, in a minority situation; and there is the position of the center-right, which considers the woman absolutely to be protected for her merit, for the meritocracy. As I recalled a few days ago, here in the Senate, when I recalled the sorry Senator Pasquali, who, since the post-war period, knew how to impose himself in a masculine world, becoming president of the legal order, as a woman, for her merit and for her qualities, this is the vision of the right. This is the vision of the right center. [[Applause.]] We don't need fences; we don't need gender quotas. You need credit. And the woman knows how to exercise and explain, often, even much better than us males. Then, in this area, it is right to point out a fundamental issue, which is at the root and is also much more important, if we want, than the female issue itself. It is the question of demography and it is the question of the family. Here I quote the President of the Republic of Mattarella, who, in recent days, has clearly said that Christmas is a problem that concerns the very existence of our country. So, when we talk about birthday, we talk about a topic that is very connected to the female issue. In fact, transversally we all say that clearly the woman is the first person to be involved when she has to combine her working function with that of mother, with her role in the family. Therefore, if we are not able to give answers - in this case yes - to our women on the job problem, on the difficulty they have to combine work with the family, obviously also and especially at times like this, we do not give answers to a bigger problem, that of demography, of denatality, to a problem that unfortunately sees our country once again at the lowest levels. Not only do we have financial and economic problems, but we have among the lowest birth rates and female employment rates. This lack of answers to women as part of the family is one of the real problems that we have to solve, so President Matterella's intervention in this direction is very welcome. It seems to me, however, that even the innumerable emergency measures have not given the answers that were expected on these issues; moreover, as I said before, even the majority in fact admits that they have not been satisfied, because they are demanding far more important positionings and interventions. This is therefore the basic theme, but our thoughts on the motions under consideration not only want to extend from the merely feminine aspect to the more general theme of demography and denatality that concerns the entire country, but also wants to widen to another malfunction of this Government: I am referring to the theme of the task forces. In fact, among working groups, task forces, consultants, extraordinary commissioners, there are hundreds of people who have to assist the government, moreover - I point out - in discrimination of the female gender. Your Executive has not remembered the female gender in naming this flood of consultants, so this is another point that perhaps would see us converge, then see if this will turn into some concrete and real fact. I fear that with the task forces, alongside gender discrimination that has taken place and takes place, there are even more important ones: discrimination of the institutions, of the very rules of democracy. At the moment, in fact, we are giving delegations to consultants, to people who, moreover, we do not yet know - and we are asking for it on speakerphone - with what criteria have been chosen and how much they cost to the State; and at the time when these consultants acquire a power that must belong to the Government and Parliament, we are faced with further discrimination and I repeat that it is much more important, because it concerns the democratic rules governing the functioning of the institutions. As a centre-right, we are therefore proud to have combined the difficulties inherent in the issue of women with those linked to the face of politics and institutions; difficulties represented by this plethora of consultants who - I repeat and stress this - do not know precisely how many are, as they have been chosen, how much they are paid. I therefore call on the Minister here to give us clear answers, because you owe them not only to us, but to the whole country. I am beginning to conclude by dealing with another aspect. If I have said that the Government has not been adapted to these issues concerning the women's issue either, I believe that there is a further demonstration of the inadequacy of the Government, which in some ways I also consider dangerous, in relation to the spectacularization of the liberation of Silvia Romano. In these days we have not had answers on the issue of women, on the problems of our families, our mothers, our working women, but we have seen a Government in magnanimity that has gone to welcome our fellow citizen whom we have happily brought back to Homeland. I remember, however, that a responsible government does not spectacularize acts of this kind because spectacularizing them means endangering the lives of many other Italians, who risk becoming a delicious bite for international terrorism. In conclusion, President, we of the Brothers of Italy, we of the center-right ask the Government to be serious, respect the institutions, less direct television, less public demonstrations to boast successes that can then, instead, not be such and, especially as in the case mentioned, can create opportunities for so many of our fellow citizens who work around the world. This is not an acceptable situation, and that is why we call on the entire government coalition to be serious. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u65	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u66	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we really live in a strange country where we do not spend Saturdays and Sundays without all kinds of conferences where the role of women is not exalted; then it arrives on Mondays and until Fridays things change. It is quite strange that a great mobilization was needed for more than a month, led by "Datecivo" and a thousand other organizations, in order to achieve the obvious, namely that there was a gender balance in the various task forces, beyond the fact that we like them or not: it is not the one in question. What was discussed was evidently a more, frankly, balanced participation in these advisory bodies, which did not eliminate political responsibility, but, precisely because they were the bearers of suggestions, they had to have a clear vision. Well, it took a parliamentary motion as well as a mobilization of over a month to obtain the obvious, which President Conte had promised a week ago and which - if I understood correctly - has been achieved today with an increase of five women in the Colao committee and six in the Scientific Technical Committee. It should have been the obvious. From what I have seen, they are very competent people; the credit is fine - I am addressing Mr De Bertoldi - but you know what? The merit assessments would be good for you boys too! [[Applause.]] But that's never how it works. Never. An old friend of mine always said to me: "You know, Emma, in any case, a woman must be three times more skilled, three times more competent, three times more determined than any male colleague, and then, smiling, she concluded: "But don't be afraid, it's not that hard!" [[Applause.]] In fact, it's not that hard. I always appreciate such debates because I always find new things. So, I find that birth and birth are all women's issues. The males have nothing to do with it; it is truly a miracle, a miracle. [[Applause.]] If, however, someone thinks this, it is inferred that the cure, raising daughters and sons, since on the other side men have nothing to do with it, together with the birthday, are our problems; obviously it is up to us. In the end, then, a woman is never unemployed in caring for her children, her family, her bills, her damn; a woman with two or three children is a small business, right? So a woman is never unemployed; well that goes is unpaid and is not the same thing. I do not want to repeat what has been said, because I share everything. How many years have we been doing this? I don't know, they're gonna actually come out of my ear in a bit. But there is one thing I think we need to be very careful about these days. Teleworking is not agile work. We have to give ourselves rules, because in these two months of teleworking I - I don't know you - have worked almost always, because availability is taken for granted. [[Applause.]] Perhaps it would take some kind of right to discontinuity (call it whatever you want). Some rules are needed, otherwise you take for granted the availability that, between one thing and the other, has become twenty-four hours out of twenty-four. I feel like we're overreacting. I'm closing with two themes. I am sorry that we have not been able to find a way of converging on a united motion because, apart from some difference, in essence we are all saying the same thing. Then there are those who have different life plans; fortunately we are not a corporation, nor a union. Women, like men, are people: each has its own aspiration, its own design, its own design. We share the fact that - please - "welcome to work where you are good, very good as nurses, secretaries, interns, researchers, etc., but then stay in your place" because when it comes to going a little higher the ceiling is not crystal, but reinforced concrete. [[Applause.]] So, welcome, however, stay in your place. And if you happen to be a journalist and want to be a newspaper director, there isn't because all the seats are occupied by boys. There are very good researchers, but almost no dean of female universities. I can go on. "Come, work, thank you very much, you are also kind, but then stay in your place." I do not want to repeat what has already been said. Many proposals have been made and I am very sorry that we have not been able to converge on a common text. I would like to close by stressing two points that are particularly important to me, concerning the part of the commitments. The first is point 7, on page 6, where measures of emergence from the black and submerged work of colf and caregivers are envisaged, allowing employers to put them in order. This is a debate these days. Consider that hundreds of thousands of families and old suns manage to have a minimum of quality of life precisely because there are colfs and caregivers. Yes or no? Is that true or not? [[Applause.]] And do you prefer them to be irregular, with the consequence that they cannot drive, or accompany your mother-in-law to do dialysis? Or don't go shopping anymore, terrified someone's gonna ask for their papers? I hear now that maybe, yes, for three months. In August, then, a family starts again to do all the possible and imaginable practices. It's a good thing we're gonna have to burocraticize. [[Applause.]] Imagine if we had to add bureaucracy to what we should have come up with. So, please, I understand the consensus: I'm not a Martian, I understand. However, there are situations that scream revenge, if they are used for demagogic purposes. Finally, Mr President, I call on all my colleagues to look at the penultimate point of the commitments of our motion, in which we propose, in particular, the establishment of the Institutional Observatory at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for Gender Impact Assessment, which is, however, ex ante. This is so that, as is the case in many other countries, any initiative, especially budgetary action, is analysed, in order to understand whether it is fair in terms of gender. Sport, for example, is not only football and also in football, there is female football. This applies to all sectors. Let's think about transport: in the public transport sector, the advice of a mother with one or more children in the stroller could give some useful suggestions, even without leaving Massachusetts institution of foreign affairs. So, in my opinion, continuing this way, very simply, deprived the country of the contribution, energy, intelligence and commitment of more than 50% of the population. Are we talking about rebirth? Congratulations! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Senator Garavini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u68	[[Brusio]] Senator Romeo, are there any problems? [[Comments.]] That's an old joke, Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, I must say that I would like to thank all the senators of the majority - I would of course also like to thank the senators of the opposition - because we have done a self-employed job, able to relate to each other and bring home an extraordinary result. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is in fact an important result to have the task forces changed in a week, working as the constituent mothers have taught us, in the relationship between those who are in the institutions and those who are in civil society. So I would also like to say a big thank you to the President of the Council of Ministers, who listened and then acted. It is not easy for this to happen within a week. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So I also want to wish the extraordinary scientists and skills that have entered the task forces a good job, because now there is to change and build paradigms that are different from the ones they were facing. The fact that women's employment is at the centre has already been said and I do not want to repeat it. Our motion was also the result of a complex discussion between us, it was not automatic, it was not by chance that a text 3 of the motion was lodged, because it was a work in progress, a work of mutual listening and of mutual change, in which we included what? A fundamental point and, Minister, I say this to you to tell the whole Government: if you do not take on a different paradigm with regard to women's employment, protecting what is there, but extending the offer of work to women - someone already mentions, in the statistics, that more than one and a half million more women's work - we are not responding to the analysis that we have all done during the emergency of Coronavirus and to nurses, doctors, teachers, parents, tourism and marketing. I say this because photography and objective analysis must lead us to say that the country needs this occupation. I want to say more: if we were to look at exactly how to change, we absolutely need to have a fundamental courage. That's what Senator Emma Bonino said, but I want to take it back. Of course, we are sorry for the half-empty House; if there were a debate on the ESM, we would all be here, if there were a debate on some other subject, we would all be there. [[Applause.]] It doesn't matter. We're still moving on. But I want to say one thing: the motion before us this time is particularly challenging because, after voting on it, with the outcome of our vote in this House, we will be on the ground tomorrow morning to see how it is achieved, because it is not words in the wind. We really believe that change passes through a different paradigm, a different way of investing - because it is called investment - on the social sector and on the interweaving with education: kindergartens for children from zero to six years old, which are other than social services, but are equally fundamental. We'll monitor this. There is one more point I would like to stress. Then, Mr President, I would ask you to be able to submit the text of the speech, which I choose not to read, if you will allow me to do so. The text contains a number of data, which I would like to leave to the proceedings of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u70	The Presidency shall authorise it to deposit the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u71	FADELI (PD). We must also place ourselves in the perspective that, in order to achieve this, we need a profound reversal of political culture. The ruling classes, starting with the government, must know that there is a culture of mainstreaming, not only of empowerment. Empowerment is being there to count and change. Mainstreaming means that every action of the Government, also the decree-law that will come for the revival of Italy, must be analyzed from the point of view of what we have called the Observatory for the evaluation of the ex ante gender impact of the measures. We placed it in the Council Presidency because it is a body present in all governments, while the Minister or Minister of Equal Opportunities in previous governments was not there. However, the President-in-Office of the Council still has the power to entrust it, but it must be cross-cutting, he must touch on all the choices that the Government makes, even in terms of programming, otherwise it is a fiction. Here we are at the turning point. We call for this Observatory to be incardinated immediately, precisely to measure the impact of the measures. It is therefore not a motion like the others, because we really believe that, without changing the promotion - not the protection, I want to tell someone who still uses old words - of the female occupation, which is the theme of the country as a whole, we do not relaunch this country. This is a fundamental point. I close on two further remarks that took over Senator Bonino. It seems that we talk about other times, when we say that we want an extraordinary plan of emergence from black work and undeclared work (especially in the sectors of colf and caregivers, but not only; because it is very widespread, let's not turn around), which on average, in percentage terms, affects women's work. I want to make it clear: we, through this too, are investing exactly in decent, serious working conditions protected by contracts for more women. I do not know how the debate will end on this point, but I know one thing, namely that in order to protect those who have been exploited, it is necessary that those who have exploited, small, medium or large, both the employer who has exploited women, if you want to be realistic, have time to emerge and pay taxes and contributions. In this sense, we are on the side of regularization, but we do not give discounts to anyone. Look, this is a historical experience that we have already had in the industrial sectors: the emergence from black work we have done so; otherwise we are not on the side of those who have always paid taxes, of those who have always paid contributions. If I may, this is a paradigm reversal in facing the female occupation as typical of a culture of well-being: these are jobs that are considered poor, but in reality they are works of general well-being, as we discovered during the emergency for the coronavirus. This is the choice and it is the deep motivation for which it is right to invest in the emergence of undeclared and undeclared work, because the values of women's work must return to being central everywhere and for all of us. I say here: we must monitor the implementation of the motion. We cannot do what happened on so many other occasions. This time this rebirth needs a reversal and new paradigms, it needs direct protagonism and an autonomous culture of women in this Parliament, and in this Parliament there are women who are also able to say no to their current leaders and no to those who represent them to men. [[Applause from the PD Group]] By combining our abilities and forces, in my opinion this reversal we are able to produce it and it is a good thing that we do it, do you know why? Because it serves the women of this country, it serves the women and men of this country and it serves Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u72	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u73	Mr President, I used to observe and reflect how the same people have been involved in this debate for years, with the same passion and the same hopes. Today a man has also intervened and we take note of it. Those who preceded me wanted to thank the Premier. Of course, we live this result as a great result, but once again the Premier has failed in the timing, because obviously (this is my observation), while being a man of law, he has not lived like us all the passages that have been made in the past legislatures, the small steps we have made and everything we have achieved against violence against women, women in the Board of Directors and all these passages. We who lived them and suffered them and fought for these results, we have a different sensitivity, otherwise these experts would have been put in the task force immediately. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is a fact. However, the problem of time - let me say this, after I come back to women - is also crucial for the task forces and let me give you an example: has Commissioner Arcuri become Commissioner for Health Emergency and what has he done? To avoid speculation and strange turns on materials, he seized all the masks and all these materials. Too bad he blocked them for the RSA and the hospitals, too. It may be said, on the one hand, that he did it to fight abuse, but at the same time he made sure that the masks arrived too late in hospitals and nursing homes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] People would die, people would get sick and get worse. Time is important. Time is important for all those women with VAT numbers who are not yet able to access the benefits that have been decided and for entrepreneurs who are unable to get help. This is real life! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I go one step further, because in this emergency there are women who are lucky enough to be civil servants and have a certain salary at the end of the month, when instead maybe their husbands, working for cooperatives, have remained on foot and have been fired. In short, we must at this moment help women and families and the enormous challenge that we face - I say this also as city councilman, as you know, and as deputy mayor - is for example that, in schools that are still (and we are the only country with the schools still), to organize these blessed summer centers or speakers to allow children to resume a normal or almost normal life, in order to succeed in having the most precious thing: socialization and learning and continue to be trained in learning. We have to build this new generation and holes in learning are an incredible vulnus. We must organise this, but we must do so in accordance with all the rules on space and protective equipment. This means that the municipalities are faced with crazy expenses, because organizing summer centers where the relationship between operators and children is so low becomes very expensive. I have heard priests who will not open the speakers for the criminal responsibility they have in the operation. [[Applause.]] To have the right number of operators will have costs that they will not be able to bear financially, so they ask, for example, if it will be possible to admit volunteers to the service. We really invest in children, it's the most important thing! Let me also remind you of another aspect: since we have talked about women who are able to arrive in special places, I am proud to know - and I hope you all are, beyond the political groups - that one of our colleagues has become President of the Umbria Region, because we knew what a valuable person was and managed to get to that position, where it will certainly be good and I am proud of it. I would also like to thank - because this makes us understand what women can do more - not only doctors and nurses, but also those people who, in their role in hospitals and nursing homes, have managed not only to work, as we have seen and read in the various services, but also to give humanity and closeness to the sick who felt lost without their relatives, children and relatives - a word that has now become fashionable - and have been able to accompany them at the last moment. The humanity of these moments is a value of which we must be not only grateful, but proud. They were wonderful people who were able to steal those moments to make more human dramatic moments and accompany, it is a great thing: I want to remember them and thank them, because we owe them a heartfelt gratitude. The battles will certainly continue, and I apologise, Mr President, if I break one more word also for equal schools: let us not forget, we know that they are in great difficulty and are still a pillar of our education. So let us help them as much as possible and make sure that they can continue in their important work, which in many cases is even more secular. It's something important, then. As always, in drama and crises we mourn the dead and we see our lives upset, but at the same time they are moments of change and, incredibly, of opportunity. Let's redesign a modern country.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u74	I must ask you to conclude, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u75	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Finally, Mr President, we must and we can do this. I remember that not only in the ministries we have high professionalism, but also in this House there are intelligences, professionalism, far-sightedness and far-sighted thoughts, so let's make them emerge as much as possible. But there is one small detail: the Premier and some majority must have not say humility, because for me listening is always due, but also the intelligence to accept ideas when they are good: it is for the progress of our country, so everyone plays his part, with conscience and beyond... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u76	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u77	Mr President, the government, colleagues and colleagues, actually white hair is the declaration of a lifetime spent on this front that is promotion; it could have been protection, if this had meant already having a privilege and having to defend it, but since the privilege was not there, there can only be the promotion of the role of women within society. For so many years that I have, for so much experience I have done and, concretely, also for so many results achieved, I have to say that getting up the sleeves makes things possible, but with such effort and with such a price that is imposed on the people next door, which is this - I believe - what is not right. Not so much the price that every woman pays to realize a dream, an ambition, to put at stake the talents she has: this each one of us, present in this room, knows that he is privileged for having been able to do it, but he also knows the cost that for this he has had to charge to the people nearby. It was said that a woman must be three times good; it is true, and many times it is not enough. I do not want to dwell so much on the quite obvious and obvious fact that the poverty of appointments within all the task forces, not only the two appointed by the President of the Council, but also those identified by many ministries, except perhaps that of the Department for Family Policies, the presence of women is very poor. But the most disturbing thing about all this is a consideration that, having to seem to be a justification, in reality, appears as an attack: I did not think about it, I did not realize it, it was not a parameter inserted among the criteria in the formation of task forces. It was not thought that female was an added value. It was definitely not a matter of mathematical distribution. After all we are half of the country, half men and half women with little difference, but we are really a highly qualified presence. I want to say one thing: my experience as a doctor, as a professional and also as a professor, makes me say with absolute certainty that until the time of graduation, the students are better than their fellow men. They are better at all faculties, even in the famous STEM faculties (Science, technology, engineering and mathematics). They graduate in engineering, chemistry, physics; they graduate in all faculties and they always graduate in light, but evident superiority. Trouble starts later. The difficulty begins at the time of integration into work, where it is common for women to be employed, when they are lucky enough to be employed, with qualifications lower than those that their curriculum would deserve. The other difference, which has been reported by many colleagues, is that kind of roof that Senator Bonino called reinforced concrete. I call it a crystal roof. The problem is that when that crystal roof somehow breaks it, the glass falls on you, that is, you got a goal at a spasmodically high price. True, the other difficulty they find is apicality. That is why I believe that investment must be made on these two tracks: on the one hand, the platform of simplicity, that is to say to bring out from the black all the service professions, because there is no doubt that without women, there are no service professions. So much so that, as has also been pointed out, on this occasion of the pandemic, women have maintained their work because the need for service is a need that cannot be denied. But we certainly know that much of the work that has been done has been done by people in conditions of greater fragility. Often they were also people who performed the work of caregiver or babysitter, starting from an experience that maybe was that of an immigrant, so of a person who is somehow less protected and also underpaid, because those who are underpaid underpaid. This is the injustice, this is the dramatic wheel that, turning, creates injustice because at the moment when, rightly, I believe, all these people carry out service professions in families, but, let us not forget, even in all the facilities of the services, not only in the health care residences (RSA), but also in the schools and wherever there is the need to carry them out, those people are underpaid. And if they are not directly underpaid, the effort, effort and fragmentation of the time they are obliged to do is underpaid. Attention, then, to the services we will call basic and attention to apicality. It is as if we were facing this problem with a sharpening movement, from the lower dimension to the higher dimension. In apicality, do you know where women, all in all, are a little less under-represented? On the board of directors. And why on the board of directors? Because there is law n. 120 of 2011, the law of the Gulf-Moscow, which imposes - let's say this word - a quota. And we had to re-vote this law, because, in ten years, it had not become enough practice. So, we re-voted it. We never need regulatory instruments to protect women. Serious regulatory instruments, which - I insist - take into account the two aspects: on the one hand, the emergence from the black and, therefore, the professions which, in some way, must win the right to formally exist before the others and, on the other, the apical professions. The apical professions, in fact, and women in the apical profession, must be asked for commitment to promote other women. And we must ask for a solid, concrete, mature and conscious commitment, because only in this way will we be able to do justice in what is a world in which I say - and this is true for my age - every conquest of women has always been an absolutely tiring achievement. However, I would also like to say something else: this battle, which we are doing, in favour of women's professionalism and also in favour of harmonization (not conciliation, but harmonization) of working time with times of life and family, we are doing it because what is under discussion, Minister, is the family, it is the cohesion of the family. There is no doubt that even for a woman who is not married, a woman who does not have children, a woman who does not have great particularly demanding constraints on the emotional front (although, however, there is not nearly this figure of woman, because, very often, these bonds she has them and are constraints - these yes - of protection against parents and against people with situations, sometimes of great fragility, of which to take care), this situation is so difficult. Leaving university studies to enter the world of work, trying to climb to conquer positions that are consistent with their merits and with their talents runs out: it is easy to go in burn out. Already the first child is a cost, not only economic (because the child that is born has the right to exist and the right to count), but because it is a dramatic experience that makes to touch the difficulties with the hand. Breast-feeding, for example, should last six months: this is what the WHO tells us, but sometimes it also tells us about nonsense. The WHO says, and we believe, that breast-feeding is an experience that must be guaranteed in terms of the transmission of antibodies and, therefore, of immune defenses to the child, but it is not possible, because after the three months planned, or four, depending on how everyone plays this time, the salary is halved or even less. It is not possible that 22% of VAT will be paid on artificial milk. It is not a luxury commodity, it is not a necklace, it is not a dress that I wear: it is an element of necessity and survival. That's not possible. We cannot fail to make the measures which are structural in relation to the maintenance of the mother-son relationship compatible with a vision. Just when the woman is more fragile, because she is younger, because she is just beginning to work, because, probably, her own family affective dynamic has its frailties and its difficulties, we cannot leave her alone at that moment and give her that dramatic goal that is: either work or stay at home. It is also true, in fact, that you work and earn, for example, 1,200 euros, which is a very critical figure, because, if you have a babysitter that sets up, this costs almost 1,200 euros or less. There is a need to recognize professionalism that it is possible to take responsibility, for justice, but, in this, it is necessary to guarantee and protect the person as well. It is really a system that needs to be rewritten, that needs to be revised and that needs to be rethought if we are to protect women's professionalism. In fact, we know that in countries that invest in women's professionalism GDP automatically grows by several points and with the total crisis we are facing, with GDP that will probably sink to misery, we need everything that can make it grow. Well, it has been shown that women's professionalism is an increasing factor for GDP. I conclude by saying that it is not only an investment for the professionalism of the woman, it is not only a recognition of her dignity as a person, but it is also the most important investment we need for the family issue, also to give a positive boost to what all in all are the demographic policies of this country. We must not make what is natural appear heroic. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u78	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the motions for resolutions on the women's issue, which remains open as a neglected wound. This consideration takes us back in time, back in the 19th century, when the feminist movement loudly claimed union, civil and political rights for women and equal treatment. It was mainly women who felt this social inequality that also caused a subordinate role in relation to men. Then began the slow and tiring path towards the recognition of gender equality and an effective equal opportunity, for which we would need a profound revision of the cultural parameters on which our entire cultural building rests, which should be reconstructed with the active contribution of female subjectivity and which would require a complete rethinking even of the spaces we live and in which we work, starting from these institutional places, conceived in an era in which politics was a prerogative for men only and therefore not entirely suitable for women. Another important step towards the recognition of women's dignity was undoubtedly 1946, the year in which women get the right to vote in Italy. Of course, women had shown themselves first of all to be able to carry out the productive activities of the country, given the absence of men engaged in the front, and then during the Resistance they gave a significant contribution to the defeat of Nazi Fascism. This new presence, therefore, is incorporated in our Constitution, which sets in Article 37 the equal dignity of working women with respect to the working man. Continuing in time, Law No 151 of 1975, which states that husband and wife with marriage acquire the same rights and assume the same duties, which oblige both of them to contribute with their work, both professional and housewife, to provide for the needs of the family. It should be noted that for the first time the dignity of work is recognized in household chores. However, despite these recognitions, we still see that for too many women this recognition remains a dead letter: many women remain excluded from the labour market precisely because they are women, or they are the first to lose it if there are staff contractions or, worse, they find themselves having to make drastic choices between family and work. It must be remembered that work is not only the way in which one acquires economic independence and therefore the possibility of making free choices without external blackmail; work confers status, strengthens our identity, creates networks of relationships and generates self-esteem. Considering the present condition of the woman, a bleak scenario emerges. For women it is more difficult to get a career; generally for equal benefits they receive a lower compensation than for men and, dulcis in the end, they often have to add to professional work also that housewife, because in our society there are still some fears, I would say cultural prejudices that hinder the achievement of a real gender equality. Certainly it is a cultural issue, a cultural path that we must all undertake together, in a cross-cutting and above all free from gender prejudices that lead to hindering the full realization of women, for an issue entirely female. Let us think about how women are judged at work, i.e. on the basis of facts. Moreover, women are often perceived to be competent but are not appreciated, not to mention the stereotype of motherhood, which represents a real wall according to which women with children become less competent and lose interest in work, while it is assumed that workers without children are more available and have more free time than their peers with children. In addition, women who try to make a career are judged negatively as mothers. A cultural revolution, therefore, that can affect the issue of women, starting from violence in its various nuances. Let us consider, for example, economic violence, one of the most subtle and widespread faces of gender violence, because it aims directly at the dependence of women, who are often already suffering or are about to suffer other violence, greatly limiting their ability to react and creating that bond of dependence which becomes an insurmountable obstacle to the attempt to rebel and escape from the different situation. The difficulties faced by women in getting out of violence are often linked to the levels of pay that are too low to guarantee their autonomy for themselves and their children. And let us not forget that the issue of equal opportunities for men and women inevitably passes on to work. Now and always, work is an important tool for the emancipation of women. However, there are still inequalities that prevent the free choice to combine work and family. Hence, from violence to the possibility of achieving economic independence and personal fulfilment. All this and more have been, as well as necessary indications, an incentive for the Government to commit itself to protecting care work, therefore the figure of the family caregiver, often covered by women; to strengthen and implement specific measures of protection and support aimed at overcoming discrimination and greater obstacles that also in the workplace find particular categories of women, such as victims of trafficking, violence, transgender women, lesbian women, women survivors of the prostitution business; to promote any useful initiative in order to support the growth and education of children and girls of all families, including single parents; to ensure equal career progression for women; to assess the opportunity to intervene in the current legislation in order to identify a percentage of the assets confiscated to the mafia associations to be used and used by women enterprises, chosen to heal an asymmetrical situation of gender in the labour market, contrasting the equally structural phenomenon of women's professional ghetification, which sees women focusing only in some sectors and clashing with barriers to access to others, and with exploitative initiatives of glass. A situation - ours - in which it is hard to acquire the fact that the work of women is a factor of growth, an element of civilization, a condition of freedom and equality, a condition that requires care and efforts to reconcile the new roles and unpublished balances for which it is urgent to revisit stereotypes hard to die. Only from education, from school, from generations in formation can we obtain guarantees of continuation of that path of civilization and culture that has led women to work for the survival, participation and construction of a world in which satisfactions can be more and more equally shared. Finally, I would like to thank all the women involved on the front line in this unprecedented emergency. I thank Minister Bonetti, the other Ministre, President Conte: together with all the majority we have been able to interpret the needs of women. On the other hand, democracy is also unfinished without equality. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u80	The debate is closed. I note that, as agreed and agreed between the Heads of Group, the reply of the representative of the Government, explanations of vote and votes will take place tomorrow, at the conclusion of the speeches on the information of Minister Spadafora, presumably around 13 o'clock. I would therefore like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u83	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked to speak so that the House could be informed of the situation in which the regions compare with the government on reopenings. Yesterday we had yet another episode of a telenovela - but we should call it perhaps more a way of the Cross - that has been going on for months. A rubber wall that has nothing to do with that principle of loyal collaboration that should exist between the Government and the Regions. It would be easy to remember the statements of the Premier or some Minister, the laughs at the press conference even of representatives of civil protection. It would be easy to recall the statements of the Premier or some Minister and the laughs at the press conference, including representatives of the Civil Protection. It would be easy to remember the discharge of the barrel on the sanitary supplies. I quote, for all, the very hard exchange between the president of the Region Umbria Donatella Tesei and the Government and Civil Protection on supplies of pulmonary fans. Not only did they not arrive in the given number, but some were without battery and with instructions written in Chinese. We could talk about the hasty escape, worthy of the film "Try to take me," of the minister Azzolina from the table of comparison with the city councilmen to the school of the various regions of Italy. To date, we do not have clear answers and we are the only state that does not yet have open schools. We could talk about the charge on the Integration Fund and the responsibilities of payments. However, I prefer to continue quickly, even because of the times available. It would be along the list also on the Ateco codes to be added and removed and on the FAQs that multiply to give clarity to the citizens. But there is a new fact of these hours that shouts revenge. The food security plans came out today. We are talking about 4 square meters per adventurer, which means condemning thousands of restaurants to death. I remember that in Italy there are 184,000 catering activities with over 1,200,000 employees. To adopt these measures means to condemn them to closure. This is a criminal act and not the one denounced yesterday by Francesco Boccia of a restaurateur who brings a coffee to an adventurer. I conclude by saying that for Boccia today begins the phase of responsibility on the part of the Regions. In fact, the stage of responsibility on the part of the Regions has begun a long time ago. We would like to see an end to the irresponsible phase of a government today, which dumps blame on the regions and responsibilities on the task forces. If this Executive is able, governments and give answers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u86	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I think I interpret the sentiment of all of us in expressing the greatest satisfaction for the liberation of Silvia Romano. [[Applause.]] I would like to thank the women and men of our intelligence services, the Farnesina Crisis Unit and Minister Luigi Di Maio for their excellent work. Last July I submitted a question about Silvia's abduction and, shortly afterwards, I was contacted by e-mail with a ransom request. Of course, I immediately filed a complaint and informed the competent authorities and the family, maintaining the utmost reserve to protect the girl's safety. I understand that even a journalist has received similar requests from the alleged kidnappers, who were evidently informed about what happened in Italy about this case. I think it is desirable to shed light on the multiple e-mails received from Kenya, which, as has been established, came from Kenya. Mr President, I would also like to express my admiration for those who, with a great spirit of self-denial, put their lives at risk in order to be of assistance to the people who in Africa, but also in other parts of the world, suffer from various causes for which they are often not responsible. Our collaborators are the pride of this country: silent heroes who sometimes pay with their lives humanitarian choices of the highest moral value, but also journalists such as Vittorio Arrigoni, symbol of support for oppressed peoples like the Palestinian one. Unfortunately, even in this happy ending, the opportunity was not lost to propose sterile controversy conveyed through social media, but also - even more serious episode - through right-wing newspapers that claimed that the conversion to Roman Islam was a kind of betrayal towards our country. But betrayal of what? No more hate, no more respect. I heard an interview with Meloni that's really delirious. As provided for by the Constitution, Italy is a secular country in which its citizens have the maximum freedom to profess or not any religious beliefs. I conclude by saying that the State has in any case a duty to take every possible measure to save its citizens who are in danger abroad. And that is precisely what has been done and we are proud of it. Welcome back, Silvia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u89	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, Senators, today marks the bicentenary of the birth of Florence Nightingale, unanimously recognized as the queen of nurses, not only because of the commitment and dedication spent on behalf of her neighbor, despite being affected by a severe form of fibromyalgia, which led her to complete blindness, but above all because she was the creator of the scientific method, through the use of statistics. He was born in Florence on May 12, 1820, from rich parents, landowners, who imposed the name of Florence, in homage to the city that had given her birth. Never before, as in these tragic days, the human and professional figure of Florence assumes an immeasurable meaning, which exalts the activity carried out by the health and parasanitary world, always at the forefront of the immense fight against a sneaky and invisible enemy, who suddenly and tragically came to upset life and sow death in much of the world. To all health care professionals we give our unconditional applause and our never-necessary thanks. Senator colleagues, today is the World Day of fibromyalgia. In relation to this serious pathology, I have presented a bill, to ensure that fibromyalgia can be recognized as a real disease, so that it can enjoy, for those who unfortunately are affected, the benefits and health treatments provided for all other pathologies. The fibromyalgic syndrome is one of the most common forms of chronic pain, which affects not only the skeletal system in a widespread way, resulting in fatigue and psychophysical asthenia, but is associated with rigidity and a wide range of functional disorders, including headache, irritable colon, sleep and cognitive disorders, which can seriously compromise the quality of life of those affected by it. This syndrome, far from rare, affects approximately 1.5 to 2 million Italians and is mainly found in women, in adulthood, with a man-woman relationship of 1.8 and with a debut between forty-five and fifty-five years for women and twenty-five and thirty-five years for men, but it also affects young teenagers. The therapeutic results obtained with the use of drugs alone or of several classes of drugs are, in most cases, unsatisfactory. The National Health Service, due to poor sensitivity, is faced with costs, which could be avoided with a simple and valid information on the existence of the disease and spreading an adequate knowledge on the possibility of a correct diagnosis and a suitable therapeutic path. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I must invite you to conclude, Senator Gaudiano. GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, I shall conclude. The social impact is also considerable, because those who suffer from it are very often forced to leave work and to provide at their own expense for the purchase of medicines to soothe pain, but not suitable for healing. I hope, especially for those who suffer from it, that my bill will serve to give impetus to new legislation, which can finally guarantee all those who suffer from this pernicious disease. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u92	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too would like to speak about Italians detained abroad. I am speaking in fact of Juan Carlos Maruffo Capozzi, an Italian and Venezuelan citizen, arrested by Maduro squads on March 9, 2019 and released for a few hours, after the sentence of a court, which had declared the illegality of his arrest. It is a sentence of July 2019, carried out only in October, which was then followed, after a few hours, by the immediate arrest of this fellow countryman, in both cases together with his wife, a Spanish citizen, Maria Auxiliadora Delgado. On 7 August 2019 I submitted a question to the Foreign Minister, obviously the Minister in office at the time, to whom I have never received a reply. On 30 April I presented another one, also following the fact that the family members of our fellow citizen Maruffo Capozzi were unable to have contact with him, at the time, for forty-five days. Now it's been another 15 days. For sixty days the poor man has been detained in a prison in unacceptable conditions. In Venezuela, in general, no measures have been taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus or to provide information, much less in prisons. Alongside the great interest raised these days and the - probably - millions spent on the liberation of Silvia Romano, I would like to remind you that there are also other Italian citizens and many in Venezuela, under the beastly dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro, whose Government continues to be recognized by Italy. So I ask the government to answer the question. I would ask him above all to act for the Italians detained there, but in the meantime to answer, since clearly there has been no trace of actions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u93	The Presidency is responsible for submitting its request for urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-216.ana.u95	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 13 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
