ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 4 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 24 September. In today's sitting, until its conclusion, the Commission's report on the feminicide on the governance of anti-violence services and the financing of anti-violence centres and shelter homes will be discussed. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 10 a.m., provides for a resolution on a proposal for a preliminary question, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the decree-law extending the Covid-19 emergency, ratifications of international agreements and the discussion of the constitutional bill, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, concerning the extension of the electorate for the Senate. They remain confirmed, for the session of Thursday 10, the inspection union and, at 15, the question time, with the presence of the Ministers of the interior, of the defense and for the equal opportunities and the family. The Assembly and the Commission will not hold sessions during the week from 14 to 18 September, during the electoral round on 20 and 21 September. The Assembly will meet again on Wednesday 23, at 10 a.m. and Thursday 24, at 9.30 a.m., for the sole examination of the decree-law extension emergency Covid-19, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, as the week will be mainly dedicated to the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the decree-law for the support and the revival of the economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 24 September: [[Tuesday 8 September h 16.30-20 - Doc. XXII- bis, n. 3 - Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on the Governance of Anti-Violence Services and the Financing of Anti-Violence Centres and Refugee Houses - Resolution on a proposal for a preliminary ruling on the draft law n. 1928 - Decree-Law n. 83, Extension of COVID-19 Emergency (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Ratification of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Drawing of Constitutional Law n. 1440 and related - Extension of the electorate for the Senate (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 10, 15) Wednesday 9 " h. 10-20 Thursday 10 " h. 9,30]] The Assembly will not hold part-sessions during the week of 14 to 18 September during the election round on 20 and 21 September. [[Wednesday, September 23, h. 10 - Drawing of law n. 1928, Decree-Law n. 83, Extension of emergency COVID-19 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (cancelled on September 28) Thursday 24 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law No 1928 (Decree-Law No 83, Extension of the COVID-19 emergency) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Wednesday 9 September. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1928 (Decree-Law No. 83, Emergency extension COVID-19) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 4' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FI-BP 45' PD 35' Mixed 31' IV-PSI 27' FdI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u8	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega Group, I also think in agreement with Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy, proposes a different calendarization compared to the one that emerged today from the Conference of the Leaders. We call for the draft law on the extension of the electorate to the Senate not to be dealt with this week, but in the one following the regional elections, especially because of the outcome of the constitutional referendum on the cut-off of parliamentarians. The proposal is therefore that the subject be dealt with in the week of 23 September - the date on which the first sitting is scheduled, at 10 a.m. - and that it should therefore be scheduled in that context. In fact, it seems more correct and more fair to wait for the outcome of the referendum on constitutional reform before tackling another absolutely important step on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u11	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group is in favour of the proposal made by President Romeo, who has perfectly justified this issue. Beyond how you think about this proposal and this bill of revision of the Senate electorate, which should be discussed, according to the timetable, at the last session of the Senate, just before the votes on a referendum that concerns the Senate again (because it concerns the reduction of the number of parliamentarians both in the House and in the Senate), to cross the two issues confuses the ideas, already quite confused: for very little information on the media about the referendum; for the fact that referendums take place combined with important regional elections (and this had never happened in the past); for the fact that abroad there is a huge difficulty, meanwhile to make known the contents of the referendum, but also because in many countries there are objective difficulties (our consulates are at least limited in function and, in some countries, the Post Office even does not work because of the pandemic). So frankly, we don't see the reasons for discussing that bill at all costs this week. On the other hand, we see all the reasons for discussing it, without any significant delay, immediately after the electoral round of the referendum and the various regional and municipal elections. We believe that this would be a much better course of work and that, if anyone thinks of advertising himself with this bill, it is a further reason to delay the discussion. Reforms of the Constitution should be done because they are and are considered right and because they serve the country, not to make an electoral "offset," which in fact affects a Constitution that has been written with many other purposes, in 1946 and 1947, and which deserves respect and an adequate discussion (which, moreover, on the bill we are talking about, that on the extension of the Senate electorate, seems very unclear). In fact, we start from the House, which extends only the active electorate. Here, at the very last moment, a text is adopted in the Commission, which changes completely, including with regard to the passive electorate. There seems to be an amendment - tabled by the rapporteur himself, which had given a favourable opinion on the inclusion of the passive electorate in the reform - with which it would go back. It would be much better to discuss elsewhere, but certainly not in the last session before the electoral and referendum competitions. Certain issues, in particular concerning the Constitution, need to be examined with some attention, also out of respect for the 49 million Italians who are called to vote on 20 and 21 September. Regardless of what they say about a matter concerning the same organ, that is the Senate - as well as, of course, the House - we say: however you decide, we also do something else. The two issues cannot be disjoined, because it is always about Senate and constitutional architecture. It is not that we change a piece; it is not the dress of Harlequin: it is a construction that must have its reasons and its equilibrium. If we want to do "slots," then we can go on like this. If serious reform is to be achieved, we must act in another way.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u12	Senator Malan, if I may summarize, your proposal to change the calendar is the same as Senator Romeo. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to postpone to the week of 23 September the discussion of the constitutional amendment contained in bill 1440. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Comments of Senator Nencini]] Senator Nencini, we can pick up your vote straight to voicemail.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on document XXII- bis, No 3. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u14	Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to leave the written text of my report to the documents, which I shall try to explain orally, especially in order to be brief and incisive. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u15	Senator Valente, the Presidency authorizes you to do so, but I would ask you to be kind enough to wait for the House to listen to the rapporteur, who began her presentation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u16	Please, ladies and gentlemen, if we lower the tone of personal discussions, I first have the opportunity to listen to the rapporteur, thank you. VALENTE, rapporteur. Knowing the attention and respect, I would like to avoid reading a report that might seem tired and ritual, because it is not really about this, but above all about the fruit of an important year of work for our Commission. In the preamble, I can only thank the Commissioners and Commissioners not only for the substance, attention and also for the sensitivity with which we have all built this work together, but also because we have worked together - at this time perhaps not quite usual - majority forces and opposition forces. For the umpteenth time, this Commission has chosen and managed to adopt an important report unanimously. We did it on July 14th. I would therefore like to thank all the Group leaders for quickly putting our report on the agenda. It is precisely in these days that we remember the important Beijing Conference and many women and men have written about that date, that extraordinary event and how many steps have been taken. The presentation of the report before us today, which is not on 25 November or 8 March, i.e. it is not an absolutely ritual date, is, in my opinion, the best answer that this Parliament can give to the many women who are still, I would say, killed not only every day, but are subjected to violence in all forms. We are witnessing numerous statements, first of all by politicians, but also by other opinion leaders, who are outraged at the violence that women suffer, reading in this violence also a face of this country. I believe that the best answer to this indignation is the one we can give through acts, measures and laws, which alone are not enough, of course, but can help change the culture of a country. I will come back to that later. With regard to our report and our year of work, we have chosen not by chance, as the Commission, not to present a single report on all the work that will be done over the years - also thanks to the extension that Parliament has wished to grant to our activities, bringing the Commission's work to an end with the end of its term of office - but to draw attention to individual aspects. We chose not by chance to start from the anti-violence centers, which in jargon we call CAV, and from the shelter houses. These places of proximity - and I say this clearly - are today the only places on the network that fights violence against women in which those who suffer violence can be welcomed in an effective and appropriate manner. These are the only places where women are not called into question, but believed and accepted in a relationship between women; above all there is the centrality of the woman who suffered violence, of her life and of her history. There is respect for you, a listening ability and above all professionalism and specializations. Well, for us, the anti-violence centers are definitely the most precious link of the entire chain and excellences without which the overall system of the network today in Italy could not hold. Yet - hence the Commission's choice to start with exactly this piece - today the anti-violence centers remain, in the vast majority of cases, on the volunteering of women and workers who dedicate their lives to this with passion and professionalism, but who also cry out for alarm and tell us not to make it. In recent years the anti-violence centers in Italy have increased (the report photographers him): we have reached 366, the vast majority of which are of the private social, managed by associations. Although there are great professionals, these are basically voluntary associations. The Court of Auditors, in the face of the cry of alarm coming from the anti-violence centres, tells us that they benefit from public funding of EUR 6,000 per year for their activity. I ask this House to understand what EUR 6,000 a year is for an open business five days a week, which responds 24 hours (often in the middle of the night) to requests for help from women who do not know where to turn and who very often find only one operator or operator on the other side of the phone who can accept them. These centres in recent months - but I could say years - have told us that they want a more concrete response from politics and that they do not just want the indignation of politics, of a Member of Parliament or of a senator in the face of the death of a woman, but that they want concrete gestures and results. We ask politics and the government to give this kind of response, starting from the indications contained in our report, in which we photograph the history of anti-violence centers and say why they were born around a practice of women's associations and relations between women. Remember that after the movement of the seventies and eighties, they were born around historical associations of this country - I think of the Union of Italian women (UDI) and many other realities and women's associations); but then they grew. The Italian State, starting in 2009, passing through the Istanbul Convention, up to the anti-violence plans of 2014 and 2017 and to the first State-Regions agreement, has built a scaffolding and legislation definitely of respect. It was certainly the law No 119 of 2013, with which we finally allocate structural funding to the centres and anti-violence plans; we recognize a method and a methodological approach to these centres, we treasure them and say that that is the right method, but we stop there, because the funding is still insufficient. Above all - this is the second major issue that photographes the report - we do not have a clear and correct cross-sectoral and interinstitutional interpretation of the relations between the actors working to combat violence and we do not yet sufficiently treasure the correct reading of violence against women, which only and exclusively inside the anti-violence centers really manages to lodge. I want to make this clear: violence against women, for us in the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide, which we follow every day, is the mirror of asymmetrical relations of power that still exist between men and women. We'll never tire of saying that. It has nothing to do with the raptus of men, the sudden aggression of a man or the condition of instability and suffering. We are tired of reading newspaper headlines that tell of sudden shots of altered men who attack women. This has nothing to do with it. Violence against women is the photograph of asymmetrical relationships of power: for this reason we also ask here that it be finally framed in the correct way, therefore inter-sectoral and inter-institutional, in the link between all those who work, which means working to restore the centrality of effective equality between men and women. As long as there is such asymmetry, there will be violence. The two main problems that we photograph are, on the one hand, the lack of resources, but on the other hand the fact that these are not and cannot be certain and follow procedures too long from the Department equal opportunities until the moment they arrive at the anti-violence centers, so it spends too much time. There have certainly been interventions that have wanted to speed up and help in this respect and the commitment of all governments - we can say it cross-cuttingly - has certainly been aimed at speeding up the times, but we are not yet there. We still risk the money coming to the anti-violence centers two years after the allocation and this is definitely not good. It is not good - let us be clear - that funding is allocated year by year and does not allow longer programming. We ask them to be at least three years old. It is not good that the workers do basically volunteer work. It is not good that those who run an anti-violence center do not know how many resources to use. Then we say that we need to intervene on this, that is, on the procedures in terms of acceleration, but also on the criteria for the award of resources. It is not acceptable the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer, it cannot be adopted for anti-violence centres. We ask to overcome this and believe that it is an important step to enhance the other aspect that seems more critical: the lack of specialization and professionalization of some subjects that are eligible for funding. The vast majority of the centres are highly specialised, but there have been some new ones and too many times in recent years new realities have been built to access funding without having that specialization and that specificity of the centres that are fundamental and valuable to us. More stringent criteria and accreditations are needed. Let's really make the most of the centres that make this culture their assets and their way of working, because this can make a difference for us. From funding to centres, procedures and increasing resources, we move on to the true valorization of these places, understanding that there are, yes, protection and reception, but we can also do prevention, to change a way of reading violence against women and to make it a cultural battle, which is the real one, that we together can win. That is why, in addition to thanking the many audits of the anti-violence centres and all the operators, the State-Region Conference, the Department, Istat and CNR, who have built this report with us, I would like to ask the whole of Parliament, as we did in the Commission - it is our hope - that the report, signed by all the group leaders in the Commission, be adopted unanimously, because we believe that this approach can really start with the right foot and in the desired direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u17	I note that any motions for resolutions to this document may be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking President Valente, I would like to make a few brief comments on the valuable work done by the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide, which gives us some data to think about and work on, not just of course petitions of principle. Of course, we have always supported the importance of anti-violence centres and we have always fought and fought for more important, more structural and effective funding. Some results give us data such as the increase in structures, which also fills a disparity often present in our territory, when we talk about services, between areas of our country. The figures tell us that there has been an important increase in the South. The emphasis then is that these centers certainly have the very important function of subtracting first of all from physical violence, understood as a concrete act and threatening the psychophysical safety of women affected by this aggression. Here is also the deep reason why it is necessary to devote important resources, with objectives and with the courageous element of the evaluation, which I very much like, introduced by President Valente: the function, that is, to give support to find the courage to avoid violence. Rediscovering oneself is a very important aspect, because the very great damage that is done to women who are victims of this type of violence is obviously not the physical violence itself, but the loss of self. On the other hand, what is gender-based violence, if not a violence that is naturalized by wanting to make the self lose to whom is the object of it? What is it, but violence directed at the annulment of the other by itself? What is it, if not the breakup of that relationship that is obviously not just sentimental, because the emotional-sentimental relationship with another person is the recognition of the other person by himself, the union with a person who is other than himself and different from himself? It is a social aspect of gender violence that marks a deep crisis and a fracture of modern societies. We will never tire of saying, in fact, that gender violence and episodes of feminicide are a modern fact, not archaic and the result of a crisis of modern societies. Surely it is not the place or the moment and then being known things, I would commit a wrong to have to remember and repeat them, but it is obvious that in the past there were still and stereotyped relationships of power and awe that obviously established a series of criteria and violence within the structure of the family. Today, however, it is a different type of violence, which naturally also suffers from the inability to rethink relations between men and women. So, to conclude, this is the importance of finding oneself again. There is a need for competence and valorisation for the support and social function of these centres. This is what we mean by the prevention and exploitation of evaluation criteria. I therefore believe that the report that I have heard is good, which gives us the means to intervene more forcefully and more effectively, as we have indeed tried to do in recent years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u19	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to address my fellow men in this House, asking them to listen to us and above all to help us. Yes, because, apart from raising the toilet seat, shopping, putting the dirt in the baskets, looking after the children and then giving birth - because, we mean, we are giving birth to you men, and thankfully, because surely, for the pain you feel, if there were this trial for you men, the extinction of humanity would already be a fact - we are the ones to endure all this, but, apart from that, there are women who bear more. They silently, at times perhaps even timidly, seeking signals to be sent out to denounce the violence they suffer, often at home by their men who say they love them or that they are their fathers. I address you men, because today surely the example and above all the duty to protect us is yours, in the dual capacity of sons (because we women have begotten you) and - above all - of fathers of daughters who still have to be protected. This form of violence has always shown that there are no great differences between North and South and between social classes: let's think about what happened during the lockdown in Furci Siculo, when a young doctorate in medicine was brutally killed by her own man. Alongside this, another 1,000 cases: the numbers are really chilling. We know that silence kills and, therefore, the importance of these centres is fundamental as these networks in support of women are the only salvation for some women. This forces me, once again, to recall the data on these forms of violence, which do not cease: every fifteen minutes there is a victim and I do not know how many women die and suffer abuse, humiliation and stalking. Even today we are waiting for the electronic bracelet to protect the victim, as the police can be notified in case of non-compliance with the prohibition of approach. We have given a lot of answers - it is true - and I am proud of the fact that I and the Forza Italia Group, of which I am a member, have intervened right from the start and collaborated in the drafting of many rules. Today, however, I would like to thank President Valente for the work he has done with us women in Parliament, who have seen us all truly united. Above all, I would like to thank my fellow Members of the Commission on the feminicide for their participation, which surprised me: despite my scepticism, those who participated made real and real contributions and this is an important sign of real change. Sometimes I suggest that some men take part in the hearings, because in the Commission on Femicide we cannot just use the intellect, which is limited. We know that this Commission has had the opportunity to make inspections, thanks to which we have been able to touch the situations with hand, even if we are sometimes excited to hear women and other victims. In fact, let us remember that, unfortunately, the real victims are the children, because women die from the silence they wanted to keep, while husbands are put in prison (some, unfortunately, are even released, while others - fortunately - rot in jail, as it must be). I would like to thank President Valente and the Members of the Commission, for we have all been very good. As a woman, of course, I cannot forget to thank President Alberti Casellati and Minister Bonetti, who I am pleased to be here today, who has never been desired and has always been close to us, accepting every invitation received by the President. President Alberti Casellati has also opened the doors of this Palace to two of the South cooperatives (Lazzarelle and Eva) that give dignity to women. In fact, women need to work to get out of the state of trouble they are in. What else can I say? Everything we have worked on has been done with a view to improving the current legislation. The lockdown has given us data that are better, but only apparently, because in reality they indicate the exact opposite since women, being forced to stay at home, could not report the episodes of violence. For this reason, I urge the Government and colleagues to further promote the instruments that already exist and that are many. The most important instrument in my opinion, apart from repression, criminal measures and the tightening of penalties, is prevention, on which we must work because it is the one through which we will save ourselves. Today, the data that has been delivered to the Commission of Inquiry are really bleak, because there are so many associations and they are growing and that is good, but it means that the questions and complaints are increasing and that obviously requires us to reflect. I call on you to review, on the occasion of the start of the teaching of civic education, the amendment that I had tabled as the first signatory, but of course on behalf of my political group, for the introduction, among the values taught, of the right to respect, because thanks to the teaching of civic education that has been restored, we can work on children from the age of childhood. Finally, I would like to say that another step forward has been taken with the pink phone, which has received an enormous number of phone calls, even 1,104, which have then been reduced, with lockdown, to 496, demonstrating this phenomenon. We invite a greater promotion of the tools of the number 1522 and invite the Government to give more diffusion, through the possibility to advertise this number in premises such as pharmacies, supermarkets and places where, during the lockdown, women were legitimated to go. There is also another tool, which unfortunately did not have a great promotion, which was introduced by the State Police: the YouPol app. It has actually been introduced more to give children the opportunity to make complaints about drug dealing or abuse that they suffer, but in fact it has also been extended to women and so it would be nice to promote this instrument once again, because we have given so many tools and we have improved and improved others every day. It is time, however, to work also on culture, in order to allow men to grow with a different view of women, and alongside this we need to increase the sensitivity of civil society as a whole. The neighborhood police alert could be decisive in supporting women in the often difficult decision to report their children's father. This is the real reason why we often get to acquire the data when the woman is no longer there, when she is killed. We must be aware that we must take care of those who have given us confidence, not only as political representatives, but also as women, it is the female who takes care of you and, apart from my initial jokes, remember that it is the woman who is the origin of everything, who takes care of you, of the house, of your children, of men and therefore it is up to you men to be an example and a warning to all others so that there is not this aberration that is feminicide. I conclude by inviting colleagues to listen tonight to a great artist, Master Battiato, who in the song "The cure" says that the woman is a special being and will take care of her: I will, I will take care of you. This is the call and prayer I address to all men: take care of us women because we are a gift to love and protect. Women must be conquered by deeds, not only by fine words, and flowers - please - leave them in the fields. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u21	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bonetti for his presence and colleagues from the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide. This report on the governance of anti-violence services and the funding system of the centres gives us the opportunity today to make a broader reflection on the protection network that is present in Italy and on why a protection network in Italy is still needed today. It is always worth remembering, because they are huge numbers: eight million women - they are the numbers certified by Istat - out of 32 million women in Italy have suffered some form of violence throughout their lives, from intimidation to economic violence, threats, beatings, up to of course to being killed. Every two and a half days a woman is killed in Italy and in 86 percent of the cases this happens at the hands of the man with whom she has or has had an affair, a man who considers the woman to be his own possession and for this reason allows himself to take her life, a man who assumes to have a preordained position and therefore allows himself to beat her, to intimidate her, to forbid her to leave. They are abusive men, very often painted - perhaps to discharge responsibility - as monsters or as people dependent on some kind of substance or obsession with the game. This is not the case: in most cases they are men who "work" in other aspects of their lives, but in affective and intimate relationships they adopt this method of prevarication, considering the woman a subordinate being and this has a lot to do with the cultural system of our country. We are talking about an atavistic aberration, so much so that our own legal system until 1959 allowed and contemplated the ius corrigendi, that is, the husband's power to judge and correct his wife unilaterally with respect to free and legitimate behavior. It really is an aberration and it took us a long time, with years of battles in the square - I think of family law, the law on abortion - to finally arrive, in 1995, to adhere to the Beijing Declaration and to officially affirm that Italy was for gender equality and for the enhancement of women's talents. It is only in 1997 that the Italian Government issued the first directive against violence against women: we are talking about very recent times. In 2001 it is the first precautious measure for the removal of an abusive man from the family home. It is intuitive that a woman already victimized by violence cannot suffer a secondary victimization, with the further violence of being removed together with her children from the house and that instead it should be the man who is acclaimed violently to be removed. Yet, even today, there is a great deal of difficulty and resistance to applying the legislation, which only the times of the Covid have accelerated (and I am proud of the fact that precisely the prosecutor of Trento has done so in this period of emergency health). Other steps forward, of course, were: in 2006 it was the law against female genital mutilation and that for the establishment of a green number for women victims of violence; in 2009 there was the law on stalking, but we had to arrive to 2013 to realize in Italy that we needed a structural approach because, given the data, there was a need for a structural and integrated approach. Parliament has therefore adopted the Istanbul Convention, which states that violence against women is gender-based, unequal power between men and women; it is a type of violence that needs an integrated approach to services, so perhaps even anti-violence centres are not enough. The Convention also focuses very much on the perpetrators of violence: we cannot justly continue to help women without preventing women from being victims of violence and therefore we must work hard on men. As I said, Italy arrived there, but it arrived late because the first extraordinary plan against violence against women is from 2015-2017, so we are talking about contemporary times. It seems almost like an aberration: while our Parliament adopted the Istanbul Convention, preventing an integrated approach - so not only anti-violence centers and shelter houses, but evaluation centers with the services of the territory, with the police, with the hospitals - and while in England we were experimenting with the model of the Marac (multi-agency risk assessment conference), we were still considering how to credit and finance the anti-violence centers. Again, while the Istanbul Convention put the focus on the abusive man in order to avoid violence against women and to protect women, we were still stuck to the financing model. We're still standing like this. This report, in fact, certifies that there are still serious problems in the financing of the centres. We know that EUR 38 million was financed last year, but the direct or indirect cost of violence against women in Italy amounts to EUR 17 billion per year; EUR 17 billion per year in medical services, social services and lawyers. The car that starts is powerful. It is an injustice, but it is also a huge damage to the country. We must then put ourselves in the predisposition to allocate enormous resources to prohibit that in our country there is this phenomenon, that we want - perhaps even hiding behind the affirmation that the anti-violence centers are enough - to pretend not to see; instead we must face it for what it is, for the enormity of what it is. We are talking about a phenomenon that is insinuated in affective relationships, which is structural and not emergent; it is constant over time, it repeats itself every day and is transversal: there are no economic, social, educational conditions that differentiate this model of behavior. It is a model of behavior that is independent, which is based only on an inequality of power between men and women. The challenge before us is then this, just in the week when we start auditions on recovery funds. We use the resources of the recovery fund to say precisely that Italy is within the principles of equality and non-discrimination that our European community indicates to us and to which we belong. Let us then use these funds for prevention, for protection, for realizing an integrated approach to violence. I say that because I come from a territory where these things have already been done. It is a territory that, being able to finance, with its own resources, the anti-violence centers and the whole network of the anti-violence system, can also afford to look at excellence and to take some steps ahead of the national model. But precisely for this reason I say that we can do it; we can do prevention, doing education courses to respect in all schools of every order and grade, in all universities, so that there are no more journalists who write certain titles, there are no more judges who write certain sentences, there are no more doctors who do not recognize violence, there are no more Forces of order that send the woman home telling her to be good and not to make her husband angry. On the protection network, the resources that have been committed are not enough; they need to be increased and procedures less bureaucratic. In addition, it is probably necessary that the trusts are made in a different way. The annual call method does not help programming, it does not help to structure quality services. There are models, which I have seen in my territory, of co-design and accreditation of centers that last even five years, giving the possibility to carry out a path of development and to root the best practices. Another part concerns monitoring, not only with a supranational body, which monitors and evaluates, but also examining case by case. We have experienced encrypted codes, secreted, covered by privacy that follow the woman in all her accesses, from the first to the last, even if not denounced. We now have a system that monitors only from complaints onwards, but these are only 10%. We must ensure that from the first moment a woman approaches and claims to be in a situation of violence she is, in ways that protect privacy, followed access for access. All this data must be collected, because we must be aware of the enormity of this phenomenon, which brings our country to its knees day after day. We are a good team on the feminicide committee and Minister Bonetti is a leader for all of us in the government. We have important women, from the President to the Vice President, who know that our commitment must be maximum. It is therefore time to show that we are determined to solve it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, I would like to stress this introduction because, as a colleague has said, the subject we are discussing is extraordinarily followed up and handled by the senators in this House, but this matter cannot only concern, entrust or charge the Members of this House. It is not a matter for women. I believe that this is a fundamental issue because, if we do not start here, we will not solve this problem, which concerns all of us and which is primarily a major cultural deficit of this and of other countries, but of our own in particular. In fact, stories, traditions and cultures matter. The history of the Mediterranean and the machist culture existed and conditioned a certain type of representation of the woman and, above all, a certain type of relationship between the woman and the man: we still have in the tradition, culture and symbolic references the idea that a man (the father) gives his daughter to a man (the husband): there is a passage of property. This is a foundation of our cultural tradition and, therefore, it is clear that, when you are faced with a transfer of ownership, the property behaves as such: it must do what you expect from it and, when it does not happen, because you are the owner, you do not understand why your property does not behave as you would expect. It's as if one goes to the kitchen at night, tries to open the refrigerator to get water and the refrigerator refuses to open; this person would freak out. I wanted to tell it with an extreme paradox to say that we are still not in the regiments - it would be better - but in this kind of culture, which we must fight. We wanted to set up a committee of inquiry in this Parliament and we wanted to do so in an extraordinary way by also giving it an important time of work, obviously because we identify this as one of the main problems of the country. As one decides that there is a problem of fighting the Mafia, that there is a problem of traffic and waste management, there is a dramatic problem of feminicide, which is obviously the tip of the iceberg and the radically more serious element, but which comes to the end of many other aspects of violence and oppression. The extremely rigorous work done in these months, of which the report rightly reminds and on which commitments are made, is collective. I believe that three truly significant and important messages can come out of this Parliament today. First of all, there is a unanimous message of support and support for so many people, first of all those who are victims of violence, who must be able to know and who might know from our speeches and - we hope - from media attention to the topic, from the headlines of the newspapers, that the climate and culture are changing. There is also a message to those who fight violence, to all those who work in this area in anti-violence centres, but also to all those who work in the field of justice: they know that Parliament and the Italian citizens, whom we represent, support them. The third message concerns us as legislators, that we will decide the economic priorities and where to invest the resources, and also the Government: we must do more; we are doing, but we must do more because we face a huge cultural challenge and we will win and fight this scourge only if we turn Italian culture like a sock and the level of attention compared to issues like these. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u26	Mr President, the issue of violence against women is a very complex one and a Commission has rightly been set up to deal with it. I would therefore like to thank the President and all the members of the Commission for the work they have done and for the reports they are preparing and which they are presenting to this House, which they rightly need to examine. Even if it seems almost superfluous to do so, I mean that the violence of a man over a woman is despicable, repugnant and to be rejected from any point of view and from any cultural, social and historical side you look at it. The prerogative of defending the dignity of women is not only the recent ideology, but every decent culture and every previous society has made it its own, although with obvious shortcomings and exceptions. Having said that, I would like to talk about a very particular problem with which I have come into contact and dealt with something else. I have been chairing for five years an association, which deals with children out of the family, children taken away from families, the paths they have to face and sometimes the abuses that are committed in taking children away from families. This became very topical last year, when the case that involved a well-known locality in the province of Reggio Emilia became national dominion. The phenomenon, however, is certainly not limited only to that area and was certainly not born last year, but it has been going on for years. Well, what does this issue have to do with violence against women? Some cases of people who have addressed themselves or who in any case have turned to the attention of this association, called the Social Network, occurred in the way that I begin to illustrate. I hope to be denied, but unfortunately for years I have been asking and informing myself about this condition and, alas, I found no denial. As far as I know, all or all of the vast majority of women who turn to anti-violence centres or go to "housing houses" - or as we want to call them, since they have different denominations or "social reasons" - are being evaluated by social services to determine whether they are in a position to exercise parental responsibility. Clearly, they are immediately tested to see whether or not to take the children away from them. This happens to everyone, as far as I can tell. I think this is already abuse and violence. But how? In fact, we are talking about a woman who finds the courage to turn to these centers and it is a courage that does not only apply to herself and to defend herself, but is in defense of her own children (who are sometimes victims of themselves, because often violent men with their woman are also violent with children, and sometimes not, but it is in fact that it is obviously not good for children to be in an environment in which the man beats, mistreated or exerts violence, sometimes serious, on his partner, wife or whatever it is). Well, these women are immediately under observation, to see if they are good mothers. There is a frequent provision concerning their children: in fact, it happens that if a woman, for example this morning or this afternoon, denounces violence, she is asked since her husband began to have violent attitudes. When the woman answers that it will be, for example, two or three years, two or three months or two or three weeks, she is asked why she has waited all this time to come and report, with the children in danger. Although the children may never have been touched, they still consider themselves in danger and are therefore suspected that the woman is a bad mother and so from suspicion we move on to action. There are many court provisions, which provide for the following formula, concerning children of any age, of course underage: ==References====External links==* Official website "Faculty" means: "if you want and you can" - then I will also discuss this aspect - "Dear mother you can stay with your son; but if, for whatever reason, you cannot or do not want to be clear that the child stays here and you go or wherever you want or where we decide." There are cases where women go with their child, but then they are forcibly removed from these homes, because they have been suspended - sometimes even removed - the so-called parental responsibility, they no longer have any possibility, no right to be with the child: they have a right to be with the child. Sometimes, indisputable - in fact - the judgment of some operators, the woman is considered not sufficiently cooperative with the house where she is located. Being cooperative means of course keeping the room or spaces that you share with your son or children in order; but sometimes it also means cleaning in common areas and stairs, certainly not because the family home needs this (because the family homes do not pay, sometimes), but to demonstrate its collaboration. Proving it, it also saves some groceries at the family home. If it does not show sufficient collaboration, it is considered not conciliatory, non-collaborative, incompatible with the environment in which it is located, and therefore it is removed and deprived of its children. I think this is a monstrous thing. [[Applause),]] For a woman who is already a victim of violence is also taken away from the children, not because there is an accident, but because of infamy: you are not worthy of being the mother of your children. Why? Sometimes for good reasons - there are also justified cases - but sometimes not. It's clear that it's a bit like tampon analysis: the more you do it, the easier it is for there to be positive cases. The same happens in the assessment of parental ability, sometimes based on a judgment that is not always balanced, as we have read in the chronicles. Many times I have met, talking directly with the people or with the lawyers who deal with it, even subjects who, without titles, help people in this situation. There is another side effect that is determined when women have to leave the house. Unfortunately, too often - but should never happen - the law says that, in the case of violence between spouses, violent mates should be removed. It is an elementary rule of justice, but it is often said: "We can turn away the violent husband or companion, but we are not able to keep the Forces of Order in front of the house; in fact, the violent husband or spouse could always return." So it is better to turn away the spouse who suffers (which in the vast majority of cases is the woman). As a result, this spouse is uprooted and often loses the job she had or, finding herself the woman alone, would like to have it. They are not isolated cases, because I have also witnessed several cases in which the woman finds a job, but the latter, as we know, does not mean that she works whenever you want: it is not the work that likes the ones depicted in the films, for example the writer who when he wants writes four verses that are then sold in millions of copies. The work that normal people do so many times is to do four, six or eight hours of work. Well, there are women away from these homes and their children because she must find, Madam or Miss, a job that reconciles with her role as a mother. But how, we are rightly for the full employment of women when they are in their home and then, when they are under the direct protection of public structures, we say: "You, woman, must find a job for two or three hours because you cannot think of doing a normal job as if you were a man"? These things should be dealt with, also because there is a small problem. Again on the basis of testimonies received, it is very difficult to understand how much the organizations give to these centers that care for children and women. When it is discovered, they are high sums, much higher than a good income. We talk about 100 euros a day, so mother and son or mother and daughter in a month bring 6,000 euros to the facility that hosts them. The expenses are hardly higher. When there is an excess of compensation for an activity there is then the risk that this activity will become swollen, cross over and go beyond what it should do. Because there is a need to protect people in these difficulties, to protect women and to protect their children, when there are children, you cannot make the wrong use of this money, because that means encouraging bad practices and maybe leaving those who really need them without the resources they really need.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u27	Senator De Lucia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u28	Mr President, I sincerely hope that each of us in this House today will have confidence in what is happening in the Senate. This is the first time that the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide conducts an investigation to monitor the institutional system of financing and governance of services working in the field of prevention and combating male violence against women. In practice, attempts have been made to reconstruct the path of the main political and regulatory steps that have structured the current institutional system and the primary role played by anti-violence centres and family homes. Further novelty of this monitoring is that some recommendations are also presented and represented, which can be useful for a comprehensive reform of the governance of anti-violence centres. One of the main problems that have been identified by the Commission concerns the detection system: a revision of the State-Regions understanding is now indispensable; a priority objective that can no longer be postponed, to be understood as the first necessary step towards the elaboration of an organic reform of the legislation in the matter of prevention and contrast to all forms of gender violence. We see, however, first of all the numbers that are part of this very broad report, which is precisely the summa of the monitoring and intensive work that the entire United Commission has carried out for a long time. The auditions were many, some exciting, as the colleagues said, some even more dense numbers, just because we heard so many associations to try not to leave anyone behind. This seems to me to be an entirely innovative operation, considering that the Commission is made up of members of different parties. We have, however, worked in an absolutely harmonious way, so much so that the report shows how intense and coordinated the work has been between us Commissioners. Let's get to the numbers. The anti-violence centres that were active at the start of the investigation were 366. Of these, 335 were analyzed, some of them articulated, as well as in a main office, in one or more branches spread over the territory, for a total of 647 access points. Women who contacted an anti-violence centre at least once were, overall, more than 49,000. There are 32,000, however, who have started a path of exit from violence with the support of the centers. Among these, there are 10,488 women sent to the centres by other specialised and general services present on the territory and 8,711 foreign women. According to the same survey, the houses of refuge operating on the national territory have been found to be 264. The number of persons taken over by the reception facilities was 4.483. As our President pointed out, and as it emerged following the hearings of the various associations that we held on 14 January, we were faced with growing numbers in the Commission. It is a fact that even if it may seem alarming, it actually makes us understand how women begin to trust the management of anti-violence centers. In fact, if it increases the need to turn to professional centers, this means that you obviously have the conscience of being able to recover at least a daily life that, unfortunately, many times these women are denied and also their children. Among the problems encountered and brought in relation there is also the necessary introduction of minimum criteria for the financing of the services offered, that only in part are established by the extraordinary action plan against sexual and gender violence provided for by the law in force, that is now completed, in 2020. In this case, women's associations play an extraordinary role, which first intended to compensate for a lack of legislation which then took on board the experience gained on the ground by the associations. In practice, if these networks represent today the most coordinated and organized response to the phenomenon of gender violence, it is precisely thanks to the ten-year commitment that women's associations or feminists have spread throughout the national territory. Despite its strategic role, these associations suffer from the lack of coordination policies and the substantial exploitation of their skills. This makes it less effective to respond to the needs of women who engage in ways out of violence while respecting their self-determination. For example, the method and timing of funding of shelter centres and houses is disproportionately different from one region to another and the criticalities are all at the expense of a national coordination policy that is now absolutely indispensable. This happens despite being one of the main recommendations contained also in the report of the Grevio, the independent body of the Council of Europe on the fight against violence against women and domestic violence that is made up of experts. Grevio's comments to the Italian Government concern above all the simplification and acceleration of the disbursement of funding to anti-violence centres and shelter homes. In this respect, the Commission's audit associations have genuinely called for this system to be exceeded in favour of direct funding for hospitality facilities with multi-annual agreements. A further critical issue pointed out by Grevio concerns the scarcity of funding available. Of course, in the report we call for a review of the regularly allocated figures for those who have now become real bulwarks of civilisations in relation to gender violence. In conclusion, the report makes clear the need for central programming and a single frame of reference to reduce territorial disparities, ensuring continuity and the necessary coordination of interventions and policies aimed at preventing and combating violence against women. In order to guarantee continuity and stability to the anti-violence services system, the development and implementation of a broader programming based on the need for structural funding according to a sustainability criterion for specialised private bodies is now indistinguishable. It is in practice a matter of overcoming the logic of extraordinary or emerging interventions (it is a phenomenon that is no longer an emergency, it is a sedentary phenomenon, unfortunately) and thus of recognizing the systemic dimension of the phenomenon of violence against women through the definition of a long-term institutional commitment in the fight against male violence against women. In practice - and here I conclude - the Commission of which I have the honour to be a part has intended to outline a path based on prevention and training, which are now the only possible way to pursue if we really want to officially delete the word feminicide from the contemporary dictionary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u29	The debate is closed. I inform you that the Presidency has received motion for a resolution No 1, signed by senators representing all the parliamentary groups, whose text is being distributed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the senators and senators who have spoken, some of whom are members of the Committee of Inquiry. This shows not only a unanimous team work, but also, I believe, an authentic passion in addressing the theme in the most correct way and absolutely out of the rituals and attitudes of circumstance or appearance. I would therefore like to thank you very sincerely for the work you have done. I would also like to thank Parliament for its attention. Let me say that the motion for a resolution makes its own the final parts of the report, essentially committing the Government to the direction of the road and the suggestions contained in the report. As I said in the presentation of the report, after the history of the anti-violence centres and after the analysis of the current problems, the Commission's report identifies suggestions to be pursued, which the motion for a resolution makes its own, committing the Government to work together with Parliament to go in this direction. The two roadmaps concern, on the one hand, funding, resources, procedures, territorial governance (perhaps a topic that has not been discussed in this general discussion); it is necessary to work to ensure that the levels and models of territorial governance are homogeneous, which unfortunately are very differentiated from Region to Region (this is certainly not a good), obviously with more stringent criteria than specialisation, combined with experience, for the reasons that have been said by all those who have intervened. I repeat, on the one hand we need resources and on the other we need specialization. More resources in the face of greater specialisation: for us this issue cannot be addressed in a neutral way, it is not a service. That is the specific nature of the report. We are certainly talking about a public service of public interest, but managed by a private social with autonomy, but not for this reason it must not be understood as a public service. This is the specialty of this field and this dynamic; the report tries to get inside this specialty and give clear indications to the government. With the motion for a resolution, we adopt these guidelines and ask the Government to work with us. (Applause from the right) Let me say - I have not said this before and I think I can say it now with serenity - that with Minister Bonetti we have an authentic relationship of collaboration and mutual recognition of work, with a constant, daily and continuous commitment. I know I find in you, as in the Government everything (starting from President Conte, who has always been very helpful in relation to the activity and work of the Commission), certainly allies and fellow travelers who will somehow make the indications contained in the motion for a resolution feasible and who will help us achieve the objectives we have all set ourselves together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u31	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u32	Mr President, I am very grateful first of all to the work of the Commission, to Senator Valente and to all its members. I am grateful for the debate in this House, which has been genuinely rich in intensity and planning, which is truly aimed at those institutions that create the necessary synergy to make themselves the face of a community, which is the only place that can give concreteness of hope to women, too sunny and too abandoned in the tragedy of violence suffered and too often silenced and forgotten. The report highlighted some critical issues: the complexity of the procedures, the slowness and the lack of certainty of efficient and effective disbursement of funds. It is a fact that I myself noted a year ago, when I settled down as Minister; that is why in the restart then blocked of 2019 we wanted to put indications of shared planning, of co-design with respect to the national level, in coherence with the strategic plan, and of monitoring. However, I think it is also important to work on system actions. It is for this reason that in the 2020 part, which is today at the attention of the technical coordination of the Regions, there is the intention of a ban and of a project of some funds destined for system actions, because it is a system Country that must be built and strengthened - as has been said - with a multiplicity of protagonists, in which certainly the anti-violence centers and shelter houses, to which the gratitude of the entire country really goes, play and must play an increasingly neurological role. This means training, support for territorial networks, courage to dare new themes related to violence, such as economic violence and the theme of the relationship between mothers and children, which is one of today's problematic elements in our process. Women must be placed in the process of becoming a life which must therefore be made independent also in relation to their financial autonomy. Restoring freedom also means this, and this must be included in founding and founding relationships for their femininity, such as motherhood. This is a commitment that Parliament, the Government and the whole country can take on. Today, twenty-five years after the Beijing Conference, we owe it to the dignity of women, but above all we owe it to women who in recent months have left us, tragically killed, killed by the most inhuman violence that can be imagined: Irina, Larisa, Barbara, Bruna, Pamela, Rossella, Irma, Lorena, Gina, Viviana and Alessandra. We are talking about a phenomenon, but behind that phenomenon there are stories of life, nights of silence torn apart, lives constantly raped. And we owe it to Daniela, who was subjected to the most inhuman violence, with the killing of Elena and Diego. The commitment for Elena, Diego, Daniela and all the women I have remembered must be today to move forward in the same commitment. It is for this reason that I intend to convene an extraordinary conference that involves all the actors today in the fight against violence against women, from anti-violence centers to the Regions, the Femicide Commission, the local authorities, the Forces of the Order and all the members of the Cabin of Director, not only to verify the National Strategic Plan to combat male violence against women, but to draw a new design, possibly a new system that accompanies our country in the contrast of this phenomenon, but above all in the response to the individual lives of women to whom we really owe all our commitment today, both as an institution and as a country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u33	Excuse me, Minister, I take this for granted, but I must ask you for your opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u34	BONETTI, Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family. Sorry, ma'am, I took it for granted. I am, of course, in favour of the motion for a resolution, taking all the commitments as a government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u35	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u38	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is the first explanation of vote after the debate. Today this House must express its opinion on the report on the governance of anti-violence services and on the financing of anti-violence centres and shelter homes. This report - and I stress this - has been unanimously adopted in our Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence, and today we will unanimously adopt a resolution, 'the resolution' tabled. It is not often that there is full unanimity in the Commission and much less frequent is the unanimous vote on a resolution in this House. I am pleased with this, because this is not a matter on which we can be divided. Only those who are shortsighted and small do so. On the contrary, I correct myself: it is not a matter, but it is a question, something broader and deeper, on which - I repeat - one cannot and must not be divided, unless one has a short-sighted and small view of the same issue. Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the resolution and will do so because it shares the commitments required of the Government, but above all because it shares what is contained in the report approved in the Commission. Basically, if I were to synthesize, we - and I think I can say we - have asked for more resources to be committed to preventing and combating violence against women, we have asked for a punctuality and simplification in funding, which are vital for the life, management and organisation of anti-violence centres and shelter homes. We also asked for a timetable that was not improvised, but certain and that was longer than that year by year, knowing perfectly well that unfortunately the funding planned every year never arrives at its destination in the time set and that all too often the anti-violence centers and shelter homes have to face the emergency in the emergency, precisely because the funding does not arrive in time. We have also introduced the word monitoring to verify the actual delivery. Basically a cry to diminish, even here or at least here, the evils of bureaucracy, the passages, the delays, the delays for the arrival of resources and also an update in the understanding State-Regions. Ultimately, more precise criteria, clear requirements also for the managing bodies. In fact, when we talk about these resources, we are talking about resources that actually allow women who are victims of violence and their children to be taken into account. It is not just about the emerging moment when domestic violence is consumed, for example, but it is about the following. Each of us receives a request for help. What do we answer when a woman approaches or calls us and asks for help? We direct her to number 1522, we direct her to the anti-violence centers, we give her directions. They are realities that welcome the victims women together with their children. We are talking about something real, which must be maintained in its functionality and cannot be left to volunteering. Exactly as we cannot imagine on this subject emergent and segment interventions, but interventions of system and not of sector, national interventions, long-term programs and broad vision, beyond, much beyond, the narrow logic of the emergency. Above all, we must never favour the scenario, which is unfortunately sometimes created also in the perception of the victims, which, on the one hand, there are the institutions and, on the other, the anti-violence centres, that is, the reality of reception. This metaphor, this image of separation is a paradigm that must be reversed, but when unfortunately occurs, it is also a reality to be cured and corrected. When, for example, the funds for 2019 were released in April, so well behind schedule, the country was in the middle of a lockdown emergency. I make only a small reference; those funds were unlocked, it is true, in April, but they were already late, and this depends on the mechanism that unfortunately often becomes a ripple of responsibility for the departure in the unified State-Regions Conference. However, it cannot be a matter of dispute between the Government and the Regions if there is - and there is - the life of women who are victims of violence and their children. Now the 2020 funds are under discussion and I hope that they will be quickly distributed on the ground. However, I want to return to the moment when the funds were released and to the dramatic period of lockdown. For women who are victims of violence, lockdown has meant increasing isolation and increasing pressure and abuse. Between the months of March and May, there has been a surge in requests for aid, estimated at 73 percent. In the face of a 73 per cent increase in requests for aid - and I say this in contrast - there has been a decrease in complaints of 43%. In fact, women could not go and report because they were locked in the house with the abusive men, their torturers. After the end of the lockdown, the demand for support and aid application increased. The structures that we have, which are below those laid down and established by the Istanbul Convention, are not enough to accommodate all applications and requests. There is a problem of structural quantitative deficit in terms of the number of shelters, just as there is - but it is of a more qualitative nature - an excessive diversification, as President Valente also said, in the provision of territorial services. This is unacceptable discrimination, because a woman who is victim of violence cannot be accepted more easily in the North, rather than in the South, or vice versa. There can be no territorial discrimination whatsoever in the provision of services. [[Applause]] I am beginning to conclude, happy to be able to contribute, with our party, to - let me say this - this climate of dutyful responsibility and unanimity that we decide to confer today on the decision taken by this House, in the deepest conviction - I really say so, because I have been dealing with these issues for years and I try to contribute also in associative terms and not only as a political person - that the laws we have adopted are, are, serve and are a necessary condition, but not sufficient. In fact, the laws are not enough if there is not a change of paradigm, a cultural revolution and also projects of recovery, through the centers, of the men who carry out the violence. In today's climate of unanimity I mean that there are no party and political copyrights on these issues, just as there can be no political exploitation. In fact, we must be aware that today we are making a small contribution to a unfortunately metahistoric and structural issue, to a world - that of violence against women and girls - that crosses the world, to something that, unfortunately, is cross-cutting not only to the centuries, but to geographies, societies, ethnicities, religions and economies. What we are doing today is therefore important, but we must be aware that it is small compared to the abnormal wave of violence against women. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u41	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic increase in the number of feminicides in our country clearly tells us one thing, namely that we need a cultural revolution in Italy and a radical change of mentality that will help eliminate the many - too many - justifications that are found for the use of violence against women. This motion for a resolution is intended to be a step in this direction. We thank and welcome the bipartisan work carried out in the Commission. The motion for a resolution acknowledges first of all the work done by the Government and the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Bonetti family and sends a bipartisan message to Parliament, precisely to contribute together to this change of mentality that the country needs. A resolution calling for an increase in funds for anti-violence centres, the establishment of a permanent national observatory, regulatory changes to ensure that there is a single channel for the allocation of funds. They are all extremely appropriate measures, precisely because we know that the situation is dramatic and continues, unfortunately, despite the interventions, to be worrying. In addition, the situation has been made even worse by the lockdown resulting from the Coronavirus emergency. As other colleagues said well, for example Senator Conzatti, in the interventions that preceded mine, if we look at the general data proposed by Istat we see that one in three women in Italy has suffered some form of violence, seven million women between sixteen and seventy years have suffered some form of physical violence (around 20 percent) or sexual (21 percent). We can say that more women die from violence than they die from cancer or road accidents, so it is an extremely worrying phenomenon, which often sees the origins of this violence right within the family itself. By the way, we know that it is a often submerged phenomenon. 12% of the violence is denounced, because this psychological symptom often prevails of giving up complaints as a result of a process of resignation that creeps in. I therefore believe that it is a fine gesture that this House is doing today through the adoption of this resolution, which gives even more strength to those battles carried out, as I said at the outset, by the Minister for Equal Opportunities, who since the installation has activated the release of 30 million for that network of anti-violence centres which today the resolution calls for to be strengthened and which has also put in place a mechanism for monitoring the correct use of these resources, providing micro-credit projects for women victims of violence, also investing resources which this House calls for in unison to increase: for the time being, two million allocations. It is the same Minister who has called for a directing booth precisely to take charge of the various cases of violence, so that even by the different offices and administrations there can be the setting up of concrete measures right next to the women victims of violence. For example, during the lockdown, the collaboration with the Interior Minister Lamorgese has been profitable to identify additional accommodation to be made available, in the light of the many cases of violence, often consumed in the family, found precisely because of the conditions of narrowness linked to the lockdown. Added to this are the various measures put in place in favour of female entrepreneurship or even recalibrated parental leave, all specific measures aimed at promoting the economic independence of women, the resumption of work, in order to try to break the vicious circle of economic subjection, which often causes those situations of resignation and therefore of failure to denounce and of failure to succeed in emancipation from the violence to which I referred a moment ago. It is therefore an act that gives value and prestige to this Parliament, for which the Italia Viva Group can only express its strong support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u44	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we all thank the Commission for this important work which gives us a fundamental report and we will certainly vote in favour of the resolution which accepts the comments contained in it. This work is important because, as has been said, the laws serve but are not enough. It takes attention and focus, study and analysis on the facts, as it has happened. It is a phenomenon of a great gravity: at the date of March 23 of this year 48 percent of all the murders happened in Italy was represented by feminicides. It is an extremely alarming fact, which has been aggravated by lockdown, as we have said, because forced coexistence has made the existing difficulties extremely complicated. Of course we are not faced with occasional violence that transcends, this too has been said very well. It is a confrontation with a patriarchal world, which perpetuates the subservience and physical and psychological subjection of gender until slavery and death. The figure is very serious because, if the cultural revolution we are talking about is not going to happen, we will never get out of it. What the Commission is asking for, and the motion for a resolution accepts, is that more resources, less bureaucracy and more territorial homogeneity are being used. It is clear that anti-violence centres and shelters are at the heart of the fight against violence against women, but these are not enough at the moment. Even from this point of view, in fact, the lack of funds and the delays that are being created determine an important cultural gap: there is not enough professionalism and it happens that often, within those centres that should welcome women with individual attention, a second phase of discrimination comes to perpetuate, a secondary victimization, as has been defined, because there is not enough culture in the operators. It is therefore necessary to do a job to strengthen these structures, which are in support, but which is mainly involved in prevention, by doing a job of receiving violent man, of spreading knowledge and culture, starting from schools, operators and also from the Forces of Order, because otherwise, as always happens for women, violence is passed on to others who perpetuate themselves for their discomfort. We are absolutely convinced that the report we are debating today represents a great deal of awareness-raising work, which has also been said: this is the first time that a Commission has worked on this issue in this way and we are absolutely and firmly grateful for what has been brought to light. That is why our vote will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u47	FADELI (PD). Mr President, Minister, Mr President of the Commission, I believe that what we are discussing today is not at all the result of any investigation. I would therefore like to address you, Mr Calderoli, to ask you to act with regard to the presidency of the Senate so that the report and the work of the Commission, which have seen an extraordinary united commitment of all the political forces, without the birthright - I agree with that, because this is the great work done by the Commission - will become of the whole of Parliament. I would therefore ask you to give the report and the results of the Commission's analysis and investigation to the House of Deputies as well. I would like to stress one more point, and I would also like to address the President of the Commission and all the members and members, as well as you, Mr President, and Mr Bonetti. In the last parliamentary term, we had to choose to set up this Commission only as a single chamber, but the draft law proposed by the institution instead called for a bicameral Commission. In fact, as demonstrated by the extraordinary work you have done, this Commission plays a role of investigation to constantly capture the changes, the implementation of our laws but also the necessary implementations, as provided for by the Istanbul Convention, as well as by the law of the Italian State no. 77 of 2013, in order to achieve what is determined necessary. The work you have done has an extraordinary value. I would like to be able to appoint, starting with President Valente, each and every member, because you have taken responsibility for doing a job that is needed by Parliament, the Government, but above all by the whole country. What has emerged, and which I think the President's report highlights in particular, is of extraordinary innovation and is the result of an ability to read the history and reality of anti-violence centres and shelter homes. What emerges from this investigation is a point of extraordinary innovation and importance, but then we must be consequent; I say this here to the Minister that, intervening first, he assumed responsibility for implementation. It is an objective that in this country is not present even in the public debate, nor in the political action of Parliament and the Government: the anti-violence centers and shelter houses must see qualified staff employed and, as such, recognized and paid. It is not just a matter of planning and increasing economic investment; we are talking about the care economy by people with specific skills. When we talk about specific skills, the whole training system of our country is also called into question: there are complex skills, which concern taking charge and receiving. This means introducing fully into the framework of university training courses - you know that, Minister, because we have started work on this - specific skills to carry out these tasks. With this investigation and with the report that the President has made here on behalf of the whole Commission, we are starting a turning point, which must also serve for the investments that must be made through the projects, within the framework of a country-system reasoning on the recovery fund. We must know that this is a decisive part of the investment on the economy of care, on services for the care of people, in this case, of course, for women who suffer violence and for children who unfortunately witness violence, as well as for orphans of feminicide. In this connection there is a vision, for which I continue to thank this Commission. In fact, the reference to interweaving with other services implies precisely the greatest investment that this country can make. I would add a further reflection: we cannot separate the speech on the fundamental points for the growth of this country through new paradigms, such as that concerning the centrality of the employment of women, from the investment on anti-violence centers, qualifying them skills and professionalism. Similarly, in order to put women's work on the market, which is obviously based on a free choice, we must free women from care work and make care work an element of the economy and professionalism. This is a very strong interweaving: think about health care and school, which see a majority of female work. There is an objective interweaving and, therefore, there is the theme of services and professional figures such as social workers, who are majority women, and of the whole network of services that lie in the territories and which the motion for a resolution itself recognizes as a point of interweaving services. For this reason, too, the Democratic Party strongly votes in favour of the report and the resolution presented, but with one final commitment. This time, with the resolution under consideration on these issues, and not just because we are talking about pain, suffering and overcoming pain - a suffering and a structural situation in this country because it talks about the unequal power relationship between men and women - we need the presentation of concrete actions by the Government. I imagine that the Commission and Parliament will go ahead with this work because it is up to them. They can also promote and promote proposals, of course, as the Commission has already done in this resolution. Choices must take place in a short time and concern resources, change and investment. Women of all political backgrounds and social realities are asking for this because, unfortunately, men's violence against women does not distinguish between social classes, age and economic conditions. This is a point that concerns society as a whole. Of this we must choose to make the largest investment in our country. The healing economy with the recovery fund - in my opinion - is the theme that responds to the important report and the extraordinary work you have done as a feminicide Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u50	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report sets out the results of a survey of the institutional system of financing and governance in centres active in the field of prevention and combating male violence against women. The report goes beyond the logic of extraordinary and emerging interventions. It would like to point out to the Commission and Parliament points from which to draw up a comprehensive reform of legislation on combating all forms of gender-based violence. In our report, the most recent data prepared by Istat, CNR and the Institute of Population and Social Policy Research (IRPPS) were analysed on the basis of the agreement signed with the Department of Equal Opportunities. According to the data reported, the majority of anti-violence centres are run by private non-profit institutions, a total of 283 (around 84% of the total). 92 percent of these centres are in the north of the country and this is a very serious fact. The Commission, in its recommendations, calls for procedures to be adopted to shorten the time-frame and simplify the administrative process for allocating resources to public or specialised private operators. Unfortunately, we lost a great opportunity with the simplification decree, because it did not simplify anything at all. And we all know how the cancer of our country is bureaucracy, the slowness of bureaucracy and the endless passages in public administration. [[Applause.]] The modernization of a country and the savings of a public administration are achieved not by cutting parliamentarians, but by modernising the public administration and simplifying in a true way the bureaucracy that kneads every sector of our country and, even, a problem as serious as female violence. [[Applause.]] The report also recommends amending the rules on the procedures for the management of services by using, as provided for in the sector code, alternative models compared to those provided for in public procurement contracts. In this context, we also call for serious criteria to be adopted for the accreditation of centres. It is not enough to have the minimum requirements: we ask for a true accreditation protocol with professionalism that deals with these centers. Otherwise we can give the money we want, and in ever increasing quantities but, if people are not trained for the reception and cannot support women and their children - it has been chilling in this regard the intervention of Senator Malan - we risk really failing in our excellent intentions. The Commission has highlighted the lack of prior control of the allocation of funding on the organisation of private society, which already manages or is running anti-violence centres and shelter homes. The fear is that resources will also be allocated to organisations with little experience, or whose work does not promote respect for fundamental principles, such as equality between men and women and human rights. I do not want to dwell on the issues of violence against women - ladies and gentlemen - because enough has already been said in this House. However, the escape from violence is a long and difficult path that, if interrupted, because perhaps the centre that follows the person no longer has the funds to be able to do so, endangers not only the success, but also the very lives of the assisted women. Many anti-violence centers on the territory have been waiting for eight years for accreditation to obtain payment of the fees of the shelter homes. I greatly appreciated the Minister's words and his promises: I understand that he knows this subject much better than we do, since it is the Minister-Deputy who deals with this issue, but perhaps today a little more attention to what we say in this House would have been appreciated. We need to recognise the role of garrisons on the ground, which are a fundamental network to save women's lives. Here too we have insisted very much on the structural, multiform, social and pervasive phenomenon of violence. Italy in 2013 ratified the Istanbul Convention; Decree-Law No. 93 of 2013 and many other measures were approved; 67.2 million euros were allocated for the strengthening of shelter houses, to which are added the 77.8 million euros for the activity of prevention and protection of the Extraordinary Action Plan against sexual and gender violence 2015-2017. In the period between 2013 and 2019, €145 million have been allocated in Italy to implement the action to combat violence against women. The Commission's analysis, however, speaks of their fragmentary and slow use and shows the inadequacy of many administrations responsible for implementing the measures to act in a timely manner against a phenomenon, which requires a clear political will and daily commitment, of three hundred and sixty-five days a year. The relationship Grevio - as it is remembered - has emphasized the serious delay for the distribution of the funds and this is - as already said - an obstacle to the continuity and the quality of the services. Another consequence of such a way of distributing national funds is the lack of transparency and uniformity in the management of resources at regional and local level. There is no point in this - I have been asking for this for years and I have also done so in the Commission of Inquiry of the last parliamentary term - and today's report is a first step in order to be able to know exactly how much money is being spent on combating violence against women and how they are managed, because there is enough confusion. Although there has therefore been a progressive increase in funds for shelter homes and anti-violence centres, no improvement has been recorded in relation to the reduction in the allocation and allocation of resources. The average time of one year, between the issuing of the decree of distribution and the transfer of funds to the regional coffers, has a negative impact on the management of resources at the territorial level, burdening above all on the sustainability of the houses shelter. In this logic, the establishment of a periodic impact monitoring and evaluation system is crucial. As far as the regions are concerned, the monitoring carried out by the Commission has shown signs of improvement compared to last year, but also the continuation of a general critical situation. The data show a slight increase in the share of the liquidation of the funds of the biennium 2015-2016 and for 2017 the activation and the strengthening of the houses antiviolence shelter in Italy. Gravissimo is the state of the art for the resources related to 2018 and 2019. From the data available it appears that, for the year 2018, only the Region Molise has cleared a share of the funds allocated, while the remaining Regions have not yet transferred any state resource to the local authorities and the private social that manage the reception facilities. For the year 2019, the Department of Equal Opportunities issued the decree to distribute the funds only last April, and we know the moment that we have just lived. This situation seriously endangers the management of shelter houses and anti-violence centres, and it is urgent to activate national, regional and local policies based on a structured analysis of needs. I am very happy with what has been discussed in the Commission about the report presented and voted unanimously. I am also sure that it will be approved by this House, but I hope and trust the Minister's words in order to make concrete progress on the issues highlighted in our report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u53	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, following hearings, documentation and testimonies, the Commission is today presenting an act of direction in this House, in recognition of the considerable and difficult commitment of men and women who lend themselves to the resolution of a complex problem which is articulated in anti-violence centres and shelter homes. The safety and safety of women who are victims of violence and abuse is the cause of life of all law enforcement, protection services and of all volunteers who welcome, help, listen and protect victims of violence. To them goes the most heartfelt thanks. I extend my sincere and special thanks to the parish priests who, in silence, are often the first hope of salvation for many unfortunate women. Politics must play its part; in particular, the Commission of Inquiry must show preparation, responsibility and freedom from party preconceptions and logics. The Commission has drafted the resolution called for by the needs and demands, more or less concealed, of more than 350 anti-violence centres and more than 250 shelter homes. We are calling for clarity, starting with a certified number of such structures, and we are calling for them to comply with uniform structural requirements. In fact, not always are professional, accredited or specialized figures operating in them, as required by the Istanbul Convention. The Commission has been informed and has understood that mixed centres, whose aims are not only specific to the sphere of violence against women, cannot best represent the place for safety and physical and psychological safety. We need centres, shelters and specialized structures prepared for the complexity of the phenomenon of violence against women and the whole context that surrounds them, up to the knowledge of religious and cultural diversity. The resolution also highlights the problem of the distribution of available funds, not only limiting them through specialisation, but also and above all avoiding the doubt that some structures can become a boast and a political consequence, delegitimizing the intention and the remarkable nature of the same. This is unacceptable to the Commission. Categoric and homogeneous economic distribution criteria and mandatory structural and professional requirements for the various anti-violence centres are needed; the method is not recommended for knowledge, but rather for meritocracy in financing projects and structures. In addition, the State-Regions Conference resolved 30 million: 10 million for anti-violence centers, not only public but also private, and 10 million for shelter houses, not only public but also private. The funds, without any necessary programming, are from 2019 and the Commission claims that the associations themselves demand speed in the economic distribution. It is essential to have certainty in order to plan and effectively ensure the quality of the assistance and recovery service. The Covid-19 emergency period was evidence of this. Specialised professional figures are essential to tackle and manage the phenomenon of physical and moral violence. But, in addition to the courage and the great heart, for which there is no amount that will repay the commitment, they must be paid and recognized for the work done. Given that the only path for those who abuse women is a real and lasting penalty, there has been so much, even if never too much, in the regulatory field. In 2009, Italy already introduced the crime for acts of persecution; in 2013, there was the ratification of the Istanbul Convention; in 2019, the Code Red law. The associations also ask us for real and concrete help. The Grevio report states that normative is easier than policy action to combat, but this must begin already in families and schools and also go through media programs, with acts of awareness, control and condemnation of negative mitomanias. The rules, demands and problems multiply when, in anti-violence structures, in addition to the women victims there are also children. This, together with the deafening void on women and girls with disabilities who are victims of violence, must be the starting point for the next resolution. In the Italian legal order, in fact, there is still no specific legislation to protect them. So, there's a lot to do. Surely this resolution is the continuation of a series of battles against violence. Today the Government is asked to implement resources, to specialize and direct anti-violence centers and structures, to speed up and optimize the disbursements of money, to reward and recognize specific professional figures, to control the projects and to provide funds of the available fund. I would like to remind you, Minister, as we are under pressure, that there is still no signature on the President-in-Office's decree on the obligation to display the 1522 toll-free billboard in the premises. I think we can remedy this immediately. [[Applause]] As a committee of inquiry, we are in a great deal of readiness to participate effectively in these commitments and we call for the resolution to be accepted by everyone, but I would ask everyone not to stop here. Mr President, allow me to close this speech by honouring and commemorating in this House, with immense sadness, Willy Monteiro Duarte, who died at the age of 21: for his mother, his little giant who wanted to be a cook; a golden boy, who loved, until he risked his life to defend a friend. We cling with heart and force to the suffering of family members. To you, Willy, the earth is light. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u56	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, today we are called to vote on a resolution which is the daughter of a full-bodied work, between hearings and in-depth discussions, on the governance of anti-violence services, carried out within the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and on all forms of gender-based violence which I have the honour to preside over, as Vice President, and within which I am involved in prevention. Well, in order to carry out a very effective preventive action, so widespread and widespread on the national territory already from the eighties and nineties - at the time the anti-violence centers and the refuge houses have demonstrated the social importance that they cover as reference points - it will be useful to activate mechanisms of control of the financing, more attentive to the expense, perhaps rationalizing it and, above all, slimming down the procedures of delivery, in order to guarantee a continuity of the service on the territory. However, I think it is appropriate to clarify and reiterate the difference between the anti-violence centres - the so-called CAVs - and the refuge houses. CAVs are structures in which women are mainly threatened with violence, but which do not exclude the presence of men. Home shelters are structures that provide shelter to women and children who are victims of direct violence or traumatized by assisted violence. They guarantee guests anonymity and confidentiality. Both facilities provide their services free of charge. I would also like to remind you in this House, and for those who are following us, that these structures - the anti-violence centres and shelter homes - are accessed through 1522, the number of public utilities for the protection of women, active 24 hours a day. These structures are mainly responsible for the protection of the physical safety of its guests but, next to this primary function, there are other equally important ones. They provide psychological assistance services; they organise mutual help groups; they provide legal assistance; they accompany people to the social secretariat; they provide indispensable support for children traumatized by assisted violence, support for parenthood and cultural mediation for foreign women. Therefore, the permanence in these structures is not passive. For each subject a project of intervention is constructed as personalized as possible and oriented to the services and resources feasible and useful for each specific case. As a result of my work of prevention also carried out outside the Commission of inquiry - on a tour that took me from Sicily to the North - I have in fact also noted the criticalities of management of the anti-violence centers. I had tabled an amendment to the so-called'multi-prorogation' decree already in January this year in order to provide funds, with a short and minimal time, directly to public bodies, since they are closer to operators and centres providing services in action in the field of combating the shameful phenomenon of gender violence. The Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, following the many hearings of the experts, has highlighted many critical issues on which it will be useful to intervene in order to mitigate or solve the problem altogether. It was also essential to reconstruct the main political and regulatory steps with which the current system has been structured. I would like to mention a few examples: in 1995 Italy joined the UN Declaration, approved by the Fourth Conference on Women held in Beijing, committing itself to implementing the action programme. Six years later, new measures were taken to combat domestic violence under Law 154 of 2001. The following year, in 1996, Law No 66 on sexual violence was adopted. In 1998, a pilot research, action and anti-violence network was launched in the Department of Equal Opportunities of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The national network of anti-violence centres and shelter houses contributes to the elaboration of Law No. 7 of 2006, which provides for a new crime against violence against women, i.e. measures against rape and stalking, also giving importance to other forms of violence such as female genital mutilation. In 2006 the 1522 telephone line was established, whose management was entrusted, through a national call, to the network "Le Onde-Onlus" in Palermo and a group of researchers and researchers "LeNove". However, this analysis has allowed us to detect critical points such as the partial recognition of associations that run centres and houses as qualified and qualified experts to intervene primarily in the definition of anti-violence policies. This is represented precisely by the 2014 State-Regions agreement, which identified minimum requirements for anti-violence centers and shelter homes. Another critical issue is the allocation of resources allocated to the implementation of the Anti-Violence Plan and the lack of mechanisms to detect the actual needs of victims, giving rise, in the application phase, to precarious functioning of many centres and many shelter houses that need predictable financial flows, as well as financing to plan their interventions. The same criticality can also be seen in the recommendations of the report by Grevio. There is also a certain irregularity in communication and information activities, which are essential to promote that social and cultural change which is the prerequisite for breaking down the patriarchal mentality that is manifested in the form of violence against women for so many preventive activities aimed not only at young women but at an entire society, because the problem of violence against women affects everyone and we must all be informed of it. Well, it is in this direction that on 31 May 2019 the Commission of Inquiry intended to address some questions to the Presidents of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. One question concerned the criteria by which anti-violence centres and shelter houses could have access to the resources allocated to them; the response showed three models of financial resources transferred to the regions on the basis of the repartition plan provided for by the State-Regions understanding. The three models were about the following: the Regions transfer funds to other local administrations; the Regions allocate funds directly to the centres and houses of refuge; the Regions allocate resources to the local authorities, while they select the managing bodies, the centres and the houses of refuge. I would like to focus on the findings obtained not from all the Regions, but only from my Region, Sicily, which makes use of the second method, or directly provides for the selection and financing of the managers of the centres and houses of refuge. The Region of Sicily has not provided information on the beneficiaries of the public notices issued for the allocation of resources, but, from a sample verification on some lists, it turns out to carry out the repartition of the resources according to article 5-a, addressing directly to the centers and the houses shelter. The Region of Sicily has received on average, for the years 2016 to 2018, funds equal to one and a half million euros, as well as additional national resources for granting contributions for the adaptation of centres and counters connected to them. I would also like to point out that the Region of Sardinia and the Region of Abruzzo did not send a reply to the Commission of Inquiry. I conclude by saying that all these serious problems have an impact on the organisation and sustainability of the work of anti-violence centres and shelter houses; therefore it is inevitable that it will fall on women and children. In the light of the results obtained, the Commission of Inquiry considers it necessary to implement the resources of the prevention and counter-violence system; and, precisely to streamline the funding path, to promote an analysis of needs, involving the managing bodies (houses and anti-violence centres); to adopt a standard and guiding principles to ensure a progressive improvement in the quality of the services offered; to establish a permanent national observatory to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the anti-violence action system against women. Precisely at this moment we are talking about prevention and the importance of introducing emotional education into the school; providing the school with a grammar of emotion is upstream precisely to disrupt the problem of violence against women. Finally, I would like to point out - I am beginning to conclude - that last July the Capitoline Council approved guidelines that guide operators already present on the territory in the integrated take-up of victims of violence. It is a useful tool within the project "no one feels alone," thanks to which at last the different operators can act in synergy to protect women victims of violence, an increasingly emerging phenomenon as women gain confidence in the institution. The example given by the Junta Raggi is certainly an example - in my opinion - virtuous, which must be extended at national level. I conclude by saying that the Movimento 5 Stars vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u60	ANGRISANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, on such a significant day when we commit the Government, as far as it is competent, to take every useful initiative in order to resolve the issues highlighted in the resolution just voted on, we are obliged to remember Luana Rainone of San Valentino Torio, province of Salerno... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u61	Colleagues, please leave the Chamber in silence. Let's take out the last comments to allow the senator to perform her speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u62	ANGRISANI (M5S). We have the obligation - as I said - to remember Luana Rainone of San Valentino Torio, province of Salerno, stabbed to death at just thirty-one years. The mocking destiny and the most absurd human cruelty have wanted a terrible and unspeakable disaster to be carried out in these days: Luana disappeared last July 23 and was found last Friday, lifeless. His tormented body was found in Poggiomarino, wrapped like an object in the garbage bags, inhumanly thrown into a well for waste water. This is just one of the many cases of feminicide that we are unfortunately forced to tell. We must not forget that the world statistics on violence against women are still disturbing and leave people shocked: one in three women suffers violence and in Italy the situation is no different. In the resolution adopted today, I recall that we have called for increased resources for the whole system of prevention and combating violence, simplifying and speeding up the path of funding. Politics has the task of monitoring any regulatory gaps and the impact that laws have on deviant and bloodthirsty phenomena, such as violence against women. On this we must all be united without divisions of any kind, without whether or not. Cases like that of Luana Rainone must become only a sad past to commemorate as a future warning. We cannot allow such events to happen again. We must firmly condemn all forms of aggression, harassment and mistreatment. The story of all women who are victims of violence pains us intimately and whenever we come to know of bloody facts that have the root in gender hatred, our soul rebukes us to the depths of our conscience. It is necessary to label as gender-based violence all behaviors that do not take into account the will of women and their free individual self-determination. This scourge must be addressed at all levels, focusing on the notes three "p": prevention, protection and punishment. Allow me also to add the "c" of courage. It is up to us to put women who are victims of violence in a position to feel protected in the event of a complaint. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Angrisani. ANGRISANI (M5S). But we women, on our side, must force ourselves to turn to the institutions. Let us remember that the story of Luana could be the story of one of us, our friend, our sister, our daughter. I am close to his family and all women who are victims of violence of all kinds. Rest in peace Luana: we will not forget you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u65	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ten years have passed since the barbaric murder of Angelo Vassallo, the mayor fisherman of Pollica, in Cilento. There is still no face or name for the author of the barbaric murder. Nine shots of a gun - resonated in the silence of a late summer night, cutting off - on the one hand - the life of a simple, intelligent man, with human relations without pleasantries; a capable and far-sighted administrator, well-liked by his fellow citizens and true architect of the rebirth of a wonderful corner of Campania, Pollica, with its marines, Acciaroli and Pioppi. On the other hand, the murder certainly failed to sever or destroy what good Angel had accomplished. He has led the country to the vanguard for the quality of the environment and life, the constant fight against degradation and building speculation; he has fought with conviction the drug dealing, realizing an idea of politics that does not compromise or pacts on the defense of the common good. It is the merit of having made Pollica the world capital of the Mediterranean diet, spreading the studies of the Keys spouses throughout the world, making its municipality the emblem of a diet - the Mediterranean diet - and of a lifestyle today celebrated all over the world and recognized also by UNESCO. Defender of legality, it is a symbol of a healthy and true South, that rolls up its sleeves, able to use for its development and economic engine its natural riches; a model and a slow lifestyle that many tourists and visitors attract and so much interest has aroused in the world. His witness has been gathered by his friends and his fellow citizens who are proudly carrying out his dream and the vision of his Chilean community, capable of making a pivot on environmental protection, in respect of legality. The visionary and forerunner mayor had written a future for those territories, based on the enhancement of their natural beauties, on the spread of the Mediterranean diet and on belonging to the world circuit of the slow city, a new way of living life and everyday life. Ten years after his disappearance, his is still a crime without authors and without senders. In conclusion, Mr President, we are and are close, as an institution, to the family and to the citizens in asking the competent authorities, the law enforcement authorities and the judicial authorities to seek the truth and justice of Angelo Vassallo, the mayor fisherman. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u68	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, we have talked about women and we continue to talk about women. This time, however, we talk about housewives who hearing about the so-called home bonus - in fact bonus is not - included in the August decree, they are deluded to see recognized, even if with a minimum consideration, the tiring work of government of the house and the family they carry out daily: an illusion because, in reality, Article 22 of the August decree speaks of much more. In fact, although misplaced as a home bonus, the fund provided is nothing more than a share intended for the training of housewives and to increase their cultural opportunities and social inclusion. In the face of all this, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I remain basic and forbidden, because it is as if we were saying that housewives are misfits, detached from social life and perhaps even a little ignorant, since we want to train them and help them in ways of inclusion. I think this is a real offense. [[Applause]] to the intelligence of about 7 and a half million women who for family reasons, or by choice, carry out housework, one of the most difficult jobs because there are no holidays, nor monetary recognitions for the attention they must devote not only to the family, but also to what happens outside the domestic walls just to well conduct the family ménage. Let's see better this article that seems very generous towards housewives, but that actually with one hand gives and with two takes. In fact, in order to get access to the training that the article provides for the women involved, they must have absolutely the insurance provided for the housewives by Article 7 of the law of 3 December 1999, n. 493; an insurance that, taken individually, is certainly not exotic, since it has a cost of 24 euros, but that multiplied by 7.5 million - assuming that this is the number of housewives in Italy - gives a figure of 180 million euros. If instead we consider the provisions of Article 22 of the so-called August decree for the fund intended for the formation of each housewife, we get as much as 40 cents of euro. In short, the much praised home bonus does not go to starve the housewives themselves, but will go to those who will take care of their training and especially to the INAIL that, with this trick, can potentially put 180 million euros in cash. It would have been better to foresee a real monetary recognition for housewives, considering that many of them are also family caregivers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-255.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 9 September, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.07 a.m.
