ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document IV-a, No 2, which contains: "Report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for authorisation to proceed to trial, pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution, against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister of the Interior pro tempore, for the offence referred to in Article 605, paragraphs one, second, number 2, and third, of the penal code (sequestration of a aggravated person), transmitted by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic to the Tribunal of Catania on 16 December 2019 and received to the Presidency of the Senate on 17 December 2019." The report filed by Senator Stefani has been printed and distributed and thus concludes: "For these reasons, the Junta, following the equality of the votes in favour and those against, has not approved, pursuant to article 107, paragraph 1, second period, of the Rules of the Senate, the proposal put to the vote by the President and therefore it has been understood accepted the proposal to grant the authorization to proceed against Senator Matteo Salvini, in his capacity as Minister of the Interior protempore ". I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefani, whether she intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the report so that we can all look at what happened during the course that led today to make a proposal for a report to this House. I would like to remind you of what you refer to. On 16 December, the District Prosecutor of the Republic of Catania transmitted to the President of the Senate the acts of criminal proceedings against Senator Matteo Salvini, in his capacity as Minister of the Interior pro tempore, for the initiation of the procedure provided for in Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, for the purpose of granting authorization in respect of the offence of seizure of aggravated persons. On 18 December the President of the Senate referred the matter to the Junta. On 19 December unanimously, the Bureau agreed to agree on the timetable for the examination of the request for authorisation to proceed by setting the date of the vote on 20 January 2020, at the request of Senator Grasso, absent by mission abroad until 19. On 3 January, Senator Salvini deposited a memo and on 8 January the meeting of Giunta was held, as well as on 9 January, President Gasparri, rapporteur, presented his proposal to the Junta. The meetings of 13 and 14 January were then held, during which the members of the Junta belonging to the current majority of the Government abandoned the work in protest. President Gasparri's report was put to the vote at the sitting on 20 January and was not accepted. The tribunal of the Ministers - as recalled before - has demanded the authorization to proceed towards Senator Matteo Salvini assuming that he, in his capacity as Minister of the Interior, allegedly abusing his powers, would have deprived of personal freedom 131 migrants of various nationalities on board the naval unit Gregoretti of the Coast Guard from July 27 until July 31, 2019. I now provide other elements of help to understand well what we are doing today and to give full prominence to the value of the vote we are about to give. From a methodological point of view, it should be noted that authorization to proceed is only applied to ministerial offences, that is to say to offences committed by the Minister in the performance of his duties. This case, therefore, differs totally from the inviolability referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution, which, on the other hand, deals with restrictive measures of personal freedom for criminal proceedings relating to all types of offences committed by the Member of Parliament, not recognizing the connection with the exercise of the duties inherent in the mandate. The inviolability referred to in Article 68 shall be regarded as an authorisation to act on the individual measure. In the case of permissions to proceed for ministerial crimes - it is important that we focus on this - article 9, paragraph 3, of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 limits the subject of the evaluation of the Senate, requiring the Senate to focus its investigation solely on two circumstances and, in particular, on the fact that the Minister acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. This is crucial. And this is the assessment to be made here. And it is for this reason that Senator Salvini himself, in his memory, produced documentation to show that there was full knowledge on the part of all the members of the Government and, indeed, a sharing of that government action. The President of the Count Council has repeatedly explained a line of government in the matter of landings, and this in various institutional fora, among which the Senate Assembly is supreme, already starting from the Diciotti case, the first concrete case that has posed certain problems. Therefore, in reality, once the government's line in the matter was defined, a parliamentary information was not even indispensable for every landing of immigrants in Italy. And the modification of the line could only take place when there was a manifest, express and different formulation that would disregard what was decided until then. However, let us remember some passages. The President of the Count Council, in the session of the Senate Assembly of 12 September 2018, with reference to the Diciotti case, said: The Italian Government has confirmed since the start of the Diciotti case its conviction that it must necessarily be dealt with in line with the principles of solidarity and sharing between the countries of the European Union in the matter of the management of migratory flows.Then it stated that it was already before, therefore, that the Diciotti case should take place, and even after that - as I stress - the Italian Government promoted an insistent and determined initiative, aimed at urging the European institutions to implement the conclusions adopted, unanimously, at the outcome of the European Council last June. It went on again: Our immigration policy does not respond to emerging logics or trans-European contingency. We have done more: we have proposed an articulated and complex strategy that aims to provide regulation and management of migration flows in a structural way (...). This proposal is therefore also documented in our official positions which we have subsequently supported in the various European fora. Therefore, if the government's line on immigration is evident from these statements, we can still recall further interventions by President Conte, carried out in parliamentary fora. Already, in fact, on June 5, 2018, the President of the Count Council - in the course of the programmatic declarations before the Assembly of the Senate - had hoped in the European context to overcome the Dublin Regulation in order to obtain the effective respect of the principle of equal distribution of responsibilities and to realize automatic systems of compulsory relocation of asylum seekers, thus manifesting the Government's understanding of overcoming the previous discipline of migratory flows, expressing the will to reorganise and make efficient the system of reception, ensuring transparency on the use of public funds and eliminating any form of infiltration of organised crime. He also pointed out that, if the legal conditions for the permanence of immigrants were not met, the Government would endeavour to make return procedures effective and that all third countries wishing to enter into cooperation agreements with a Member State of the Union would enter into bilateral agreements on the management of migratory flows in Europe. At the session of the Senate Assembly on 27 June 2018, the President of the Council of Ministers, in his communications with a view to the European Council on 28 and 29 June, reiterated once again the Government's objectives in the field of immigration, referring to the European multilevel strategy for migration, an articulated, organic proposal based on a new approach, which allows Europe to exit from management based on an emerging logic and instead to enter a new dimension, which provides for management based on a structural logic, to be definitively recognised as a priority of the European Union. Further confirmations of the approach followed by the whole Government and explained in particular by President Conte are still recorded in the statements made at the session of the Senate Assembly of 16 October 2018, in view of the European Council of 18 October 2018, as well as at the session of the Senate Assembly of 11 December 2018, in view of the European Council of 13 and 14 December 2018. We now come to the substance of the concrete case concerning migrants on board the Gregoretti ship. In that situation, very specific concrete positions were taken. Reference is made to an e-mail dated 26 July 2019, attached to the written statement filed by Minister Salvini. It is an e-mail, written in English, sent by Dr Benassi, diplomatic adviser to the President of the Council, to Dr Massari, Italian ambassador in Brussels. In this e-mail we refer expressly to people saved at sea and currently on board (on board) of the ship Gregoretti, of the Italian Coast Guard. A reference is therefore made to the ship Gregoretti, with the presence of migrants. This e-mail is intended to encourage the redistribution of immigrants boarded the night before on that ship to the other Member States of the European Union. We cannot fail to note the firm contextuality of this initiative of the Presidency of the Council with respect to the beginning of the matter, which dates back precisely to the evening of 25 July. Following this incident, the Presidency of the Council itself, through the e-mails that have been reproduced, made known the uncertainty in the responses of certain Member States, which precluded the immediate possibility of relocation of immigrants to the Member States, thus proving that a relocation route was still being developed, with the need for a mere technical time in order to be able to land. The memory produced by Minister Salvini recalls another e-mail addressed by Dr. Massari to Dr. Belloni, Secretary General of the Farnesina, and to Dr. Baiano, Deputy Secretary General of the Farnesina (they are all internal officials of the Ministries), in which we read: I am in constant contact with Michou (official of a body of the European Union), who has contacted the various European capitals since this morning (i.e. 26 July). For now they have responded in four countries, with general willingness to take migrants: Germany, France, Ireland and Luxembourg. The four countries mentioned above would take about 15 for each according to Michou. Michou is confident that the others contacted by her will respond positively. He also writes: "The delay in the responses due to the summer weekend has to be taken into account. So we're talking, again, about technical times. It is clear - on the one hand - that the relocation mechanisms with a safe and immediate value were not operational at the date of 26 July, as the procedures for the redistribution of migrants were anything but automatic. On the other hand, it appears that the immediacy of the Council Presidency's taking charge of the matter since 26 July makes the hypothesis of individual action by Minister Salvini, which worked in a context characterized by the Commission's active participation in the matter, quite unlikely. Similarly, in reality, to what happened in the case of the ship Diciotti, even in the case of the ship Gregoretti - we are continuing to speak of cases, the case of the Diciotti and the case of the Gregoretti, but let us try to understand the same - no contrary position was taken in fact by the President of the Count Council and not even by any other member of the Government. In the report for the Assembly on the Diciotti case, on which the Senate voted in favour - let us take into account a certain linearity of the positions taken, as that document was approved with the participation of members of the current Government who were also then part of the Executive - we say: Only a statement to the contrary, expressed at the institutional level, would have legitimized a different configuration of the teleological profile of the conduct of Minister Salvini. In particular, if the President-in-Office of the Council - who is responsible for coordinating government policy - had taken a position of distance or opposition to the decisions of Minister Salvini, then we could have assumed a party and non-governmental interest. But this was not the case in the case under consideration. The fact that the Council of Ministers has not taken a decision on the Gregoretti case - a matter which has been underlined by the Court of Ministers - takes on a different meaning because, in reality, it stresses an implicit - for me too explicit - sharing with respect to the action of the Minister of the Interior. If, in fact, President Conte had considered it appropriate to oppose it in terms of government guidelines, he could have summoned a meeting of the Council of Ministers to horas to take a decision of direction contrary to the management choices of Minister Salvini. The Senator has produced a number of elements to highlight the involvement of the Commission as a whole. There are also statements by the Minister of Justice Alfonso Bonafede and one by the Vice President of the Council Luigi Di Maio. Only news agencies registered and never denied. On 30 July, Minister Bonafede expressly stated that: The ship - referring to the ship Gregoretti - is docked at the port. There is dialogue between the Ministries of Infrastructure, Interior and Defence. The government's position is always the same. Rights are safeguarded. The people who were supposed to come down have come down. Health conditions are monitored, but the immigration problem must be addressed throughout Europe. Of similar content is also the statement by Vice-Premier Di Maio, who, on July 31, asked on the case Gregoretti replied: For me, Italy cannot stand new arrivals of migrants. Those migrants must go to Europe. But we don't treat our military on that ship like pirates. Full respect for law enforcement. The full knowledge of the facts by the President-in-Office of the Council - but perhaps that would not even be necessary - has been reiterated, even recently, by some statements made by the President-in-Office. In a press agency on 9 January, on the question: how would he vote in the case of Gregoretti if he were a Member of Parliament, he declared: It is difficult to answer because, as President of the Council, I cannot disassociate myself from a direct knowledge of the matter. So - as it has found, among other things, the same speaker, president Gasparri, to which goes a thanks from all the members of the Junta for the job that it has carried out - the absolute element more important would have been the eventual position of opposition of the president Count, never expressed in the days in which the ship was at sea with the immigrants on board, in institutional or even informal centers. No statements, no interviews of Professor Conte, nor any statements made by the same, in parliamentary and extra-parliamentary circles, have been identified to contest the choice of Minister Salvini, neither on the days when the ship was at sea with the immigrants on board nor on the days immediately following. There was no statement by President Conte, expressed in formal or informal forums, to overcome the position of the Government compared to that of Minister Salvini. Therefore, a governmental political involvement of the President and of the whole Government is certainly configurable, demonstrated by the absence of any contrary stance on the conduct of the Gregoretti case and on the choices made by the same person. The case was well known, it was all over the media and in all the newspapers of those days. There was no need for specific communication because, in fact, the elements of the affair could be seen in full. The confirmation is, among other things, also in the relative case, that we will have under consideration shortly, to the ship Open Arms. I am referring now to issues that are already public, like now everything in Italy, whose facts, in fact, happen a few days after the events that are under consideration today. President Conte, in fact, with a missive of 16 August, asks for the landing of the children present on board the Open Arms, nothing arranging regarding the other migrants and, indeed, stressing: "that it is a legal task, as well as humanitarian, the theme of an adequate sharing with the other European States". And this is stated in relation to the distribution of the persons of the said ship, as well as of all the others that are still hosted. I would ask you to be able to make another assessment, even if it is not the responsibility of the Junta. The Junta is not obliged to assess the existence or not, in the present case, of conduct criminally relevant, but to any good account it cannot be remembered that the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of Catania has expressly held that, in the case under consideration, the premises of the crime of kidnapping of person, or of other crime, do not exist, concluding, in fact, for the request of storage. In the opinion of the Prosecutor, having prolonged for three days the stay on board, guaranteeing medical assistance and food, allowing the disembarkation of minors and sick and always with the firm ministerial intention, expressed in various places, even documented in the summary information, to make the migrants disembark in a short time, is not an illegitimate deprivation of freedom, punishable in accordance with Article 605 of the Criminal Code, concerning the seizure. The prosecutor continues by recalling, among other things, that the assignment of the POS, point of safety, is only one of the administrative stages for the entry of irregular migrants and that, even in the subsequent stages of the procedure, the freedom of locomotion and movement suffers legal limitations, in relation to the necessity of public order, to protect the interest of the State to control and regulate migratory flows. Indeed, it appears from the acts - no one can therefore deny - that the administrative procedures have been activated in good time, that the comparison with the European countries has been promoted in an immediate and fruitful way and that the stay on board has been limited to the guarantee of the operation of the administrative procedures. From the subjective point of view they lack, then, the awareness and the will of the minister Salvini to illegitimately deprive of the personal freedom the migrants on board, as it has emerged clear the ministerial will to proceed to the disembarkation as soon as possible, as evidenced from the declarations made during the investigation. The same vice-prefect vicar Filippo Romano declares that "the Ministry told me more executives that certainly the landing would be authorized shortly, what indeed happened, and that it was evident the ministerial will to authorize the landing, so much so that they told us to prepare for the reception." I think that other doubts also need to be overcome: what we are doing today is a criminal in some ways different from that provided for in the penal code, because today's assessment cannot be without the close connection between the act and the governmental function, in the sense that the Minister is criminalized even if the public interest could possibly have been carried out in a different way. We are in fact out of the hypothesis of the criminals referred to in the penal code. We consider that there is an autonomy of the function of government, which is a constitutional value, for which the organization foreshadows evaluation modules other than those adopted for the common criminals. There was probably, in this respect, a misunderstanding, which during the exam in Junta led some senators to prefigure requests for preliminary integration, aimed at assessing the existence or not of some hypotheses. Law No 1 of 1989, in fact, focuses not so much on the actual existence of a public interest, but on the pursuit of it, when there is a government action that is destined to pursue an interest. Therefore, as the teleological profile is the subject of the Senate's assessment, it is the aim pursued by the Minister to constitute the scope of the feedback. We must also make evaluations: we do not discuss here - as happened also in the case of the Diciotti ship - the need to assess or not the political considerations, which can be the subject of an inspection union, in which each Member of Parliament can review governmental choices, with acts of direction, with questions, with possible motions of individual distrust. Today we are not expressing an assessment of the sharing of government action: we are assessing whether the activity carried out by the Minister at the time has been aimed at pursuing that interest. In this case, therefore, it is of course considered that there can be no crime and this will be assessed in the appropriate fora. This is not our seat. We are merely called upon to say whether or not there is a public interest and in that action there was a public interest, which in some ways can also be demonstrated through an argument on the contrary: if there was no public interest, one might wonder - which would really fall into the world of the impossible - what might be the interest pursued by the Minister in this case. If we were - for example - in a case of flaw or corruption, the answer could be obvious and obvious, because there might be a private interest. However, these situations are completely avoid and antithetical compared to the case in which the Minister was handling the matter for an interest, of course, not private. Mr President, at the end of the investigation, Mr Gasparri made a proposal for a report which - as we have pointed out several times - is technically well done. We also know, however, that the progress of the work has unfortunately been polluted by a political debate and that it has been almost altered, in the examination of the Junta - I hope then that the House can have a different capacity and a different climate - the high institutional function assigned to it as the body to which the safeguarding of the principles of separation of powers established by the Constitution must be delegated. The Council is not called upon to safeguard individual positions, it is not capable of doing so. We do not talk about the fate of immunity as if it were a reproach: we are making an assessment, which must express the Junta, which disregards individual interests and is aimed at safeguarding the high institution of the State and the fundamental separation of powers between the legislative power, the executive power and the power of the judiciary. Unfortunately, the work of the body of which I am a member has been conditioned on this occasion by positions expressed by the parties which, in fact, anticipated their decision on the substance before starting the debate. Some members did not speak in the debate on the subject; unfortunately, there were some quits and the lack of participation in the final vote, also considering that no answers had been received from the investigative bodies which, in fact, had perhaps simply been rejected by the majority of the members present in the Commission. Let us bear in mind that in some circumstances the majority did not have all the members present. But this certainly did not depend on the opposition. In some ways, the Junta was expelled from its main function, which was therefore bent for different reasons, at this point the necessary seat, in order to find the truth and be able to bring the matter to the institutional level, turns out to be the procedural seat. Therefore, considering that it is necessary to return to the guarantee that is guaranteed by law and only by law, not by other political issues, has therefore returned to the knowledge of the judge of merit, impartial and third. For this reason, therefore, the Junta, following the equality of votes for and against, rejected the proposal put to the vote by the President of the Senate and for this reason we wanted to bring back everything in the beehive that we hope to respect the law and the state. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u6	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 135- bis (7) of the Rules of Procedure, until the conclusion of the discussion at least twenty senators may make proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Junta, through the presentation of specific reasoned agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the point of today's debate is very simple: we must understand why what was good for the Diciotti issue today is no longer good for the Gregoretti issue. We should understand why it is no longer okay, what has happened differently, since we are talking about two similar cases, in fact, identical. The President of the Count Council is the same - I remember, it is not another - who, when he ruled with the League, said on the case Diciotti that Minister Salvini was absolutely not alone and that the decisions were common. Do you remember Minister Di Maio when he almost used his body as a shield to defend Minister Salvini in his actions, saying that he was an excellent Minister and that his actions were carried out in the national interest, for the defense of our borders? Then, suddenly, all this has changed: Minister Salvini becomes a kidnapper of people, a kidnapper of children. Then comes a spontaneous question in us: did the President of the Count Council not do his job, did not follow the vicissitudes within the Council of Ministers, or did he - as we believe - have a personal interest? He had it when he was the President of the Council of a yellow-green majority, today he is the President of the Council of a Giallorossi majority; a personal interest that the Italians understand very well: the interest of continuing to be the President of the Council at all costs. So what was a very good minister yesterday becomes a kidnapper of people and children. I believe that the most shameful thing, which we regret and regret most, is that this Government uses the institutions, and in particular the institution of the Senate, for political revenge. Well, I think this is not a beautiful image that is given to the Italian people, because institutions are a serious thing and should not be used for ripiques or political revenge. What we are most sorry about is this government, this left who we thought had abandoned the habit of using non-democratic instruments, of using instruments such as processes when they understand that the opponent cannot be beaten in the ballot box, in the elections. We are at the old vice of the left that believes it is better to bring political opponents to trial and that it is better if opponents are condemned to be removed from political competition. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This is how the left has always acted; in this way it has always behaved in the last twenty years, when it understood - as you should understand today - that the Italians are on the side of Minister Salvini as they were yesterday, when by his actions he tried to combat illegal immigration. Dear friends, Italians are not on his side only in polls, research or voting intentions: Italians are on his side in the elections. You should have understood from the elections - which I remember ended nine to one - that the Italians appreciated, continue to appreciate and would like to continue to have a Minister who defends national interests, who fights and fights to hinder illegal immigration. But you pretend you don't understand that. You think you are on the side of reason; behaving like this, you think you will increase your political turnover. But again, there is no friend in history and it should have taught you that this does not happen. What we then like to bring out is your hypocrisy: the hypocrisy of those who today continue to stand in government regardless of a creed and who - unlike us - a creed does not have. This is what Italians will clearly have in their consciences and in their way of acting. I would have liked to see today the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Di Maio and all those who then defended former Minister Salvini; but I will have the satisfaction, I will have to wait just a little 'time. It will in fact be very interesting when this trial begins and all of them, or part of them (but certainly the President of the Count Council and Minister Di Maio), will be witnesses in that trial and we will see them parade. I will then enjoy hearing their words after they swear to tell the truth. It will be very interesting to understand that people are - we have already judged them very well - and it will be an opportunity to bring out even more their hypocrisy, their cowardly way of acting and their vulgar way of using institutions for political revenge. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u8	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u9	Mr President, I think that today this House should reflect, apart from the question itself, on the fundamental danger of the way in which the court of Ministers has set the request for authorisation to proceed, because it is a field of play that we should not have accepted, namely a field and rules that are absolutely not suitable and above all recognizable, but rather constitute a very dangerous precedent. Anyone in here tomorrow may be in the conditions under which the then Minister of the Interior was in the Gregoretti case. The request for authorization even theorizes a sort of conduct, or rather a negative behaviour on the part of the then Minister, and even theorizes that this negative behaviour would be an administrative act. This after rivers and rivers of books where the political and government activity of the Ministers has always distinguished itself from the administrative activity left to the officials. In essence, it is as if the court of ministers had called D'Alema when Serbia was bombed. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Zaffini groups]] It is as if they had called the Third Minister of Sant'Agata or President Monti when they left the Maròs in India. Do you remember the story of the maròs in India? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Zaffini groups]] One resigned, but President Monti was there. It is as if, after the sentence that condemned - be careful - not a Minister, because it could not, but Italy for the rejections of Maroni, someone had called the latter to answer for the rejections because there was a sentence. The field of play identified by the Court of Ministers is therefore an incorrect, dangerous and unacceptable field of play. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Since we have also been able to access the acts, I would like to highlight a few passages quickly. If someone reads - as I imagine - step 2, when the court of ministers, who desperately tried to find a system to say that Salvini was a kidnapper, resents the chief of the cabinet and the prefect and refers everything to the prosecutor, will see that the latter rightly says that he does not see anything relevant He did not see anything important because the prefect and the chief of the cabinet, when they were heard, have replied clearly (as we read on page 166 of what I call in an incorrect way SIC) to the president of the court, who said that it was not clear why they had remained on board the ship Gregoretti until 31, that instead it was not clear why they had to come down first from the moment they had been rebuilt, cured also from the point of view of hygiene and that the hot spots are not residential structures. The fact that the image of an internal minister can be obtained from this plant is frankly frightening to me, because there has been almost a desire to co-art, to paint the situation in a certain way, to give an interpretation to the statements of the people listened to for the sole purpose of finding a way to send an internal minister to trial and, be careful not for acts relating to common crimes, for which it is possible to have the authorization (the rapporteur used first the example of a case of corruption). On the contrary, here we are faced with the case of a different power, which is distinct and which rightly always claims its autonomy, which puts both feet in the evaluation of an act and a choice of nature and political character. I also have little interest, frankly, in whether or not the Government agrees, because it is the Constitution that says how the Government works and what the relations between the Prime Minister and collegiality are. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Zaffini]] Frankly, I don't even have to go prove it. MIRABELLI (PD). Can politics violate everything? MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Then there is another element that I wanted to stress, namely the assessments that have been made to try in every way to say that that was - you think - not a political act, but an administrative act given by a negative conduct. I repeat, each of us can be found in a condition of this kind if we accept a precedent like this: it is a very serious fact, out of all principle. This administrative act, which would be a negative behavior, just as the case was built by the court of Ministers, is always based on what the head of the cabinet has also tried in every way to say, as shown by the acts, namely that on this issue the political attitude that Italy was having with regard to the distribution of migrants is very important. It is not that they were there by chance: there was, however, a picture, a line of government changed with reference to the management of the issue of migrants, who saw this relationship with Europe. I shall conclude by saying that, of course, I voted against this approach. I believe that the majority in the Junta 'if it has gone away', as we say, with a not very political expression, that you will forgive me. In the end, we are here today to discuss and, as I recalled, I would like to see an understanding of the gravity of the playing field, which this time has chosen the Court of Ministers. That is why, in my opinion, the proposed thesis must be completely rejected, with reference to the political act. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Zaffini groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u10	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after so many weeks of debates - of course all extra-parliamentary - which involved backstagers, jurists and intellectual thinkers, this debate, which takes place in the only legitimate place, namely the Senate Chamber, comes to a good end. Instead, all these weeks have been run over by totally misleading debates: everyone wonders if the government was strengthened or weakened, who benefits and who does not benefit. These are all things I understand, because I'm not a Martian, but I don't share them. This confusing and noisy context was, moreover, also fueled by our fellow senator and his robust statements, of the type: "Process me as well, so that you process the Italian people in this way (the nuance of megalomania I think does not escape anyone), seasoned by others such as: "Io," like "Trump". We are out of text and out of context. Our task is more limited, clearer, simpler: the application of an article in the Constitution. So it is important to understand what we must not and cannot do in this House. First of all, we must not take the place of the court in Catania. [[Applause from Senators De Falco, Fattori and Nugnes]] , in assessing whether or not the elements exist, etc. Secondly, this is not where the immigration policy line is being discussed. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] I hope that this will happen soon, perhaps by discussing the two security decrees, which were here, are here and I fear that they will remain there, but that is not the place, the place and the time for this debate. We must not pretend to be a court of law because we are not, and we must not pretend to discuss, in this case, as if we were discussing immigration policies and laws: it will be for another debate and for another time. Today we must do another job and do it seriously. We simply have to consider whether, in this case, as in my view in the previous case of the Diciotti vessel, there is one of the conditions for subtracting a Minister from the course of justice and that the law identifies very clearly. Colleagues, in order for authorization to proceed to be denied, it must be justified - I say well: not only to affirm, but to justify - that the inquisition has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function. As the Constitutional Court has already clarified, the reasoning cannot be merely political, but it must indicate what the constitutionally relevant interest of the State is, that is, the pre-eminent public interest that the contested conduct has protected. The supporters of the denial, starting from the same senator, invoke Article 52 of the Constitution and have argued that the constitutionally relevant interest was that of the defence of the Homeland, while the public interest was the security of the State and the protection of public order (to assert this, we really must challenge the ridicule), claiming that in the case under consideration the borders of the Homeland were threatened by a naval unit of the Italian Coast Guard, its Italian crew and 135 shipwrecks collected at sea. Do we really want to support the absurdity that the Italian Homeland was running the risk of being invaded by an Italian Coast Guard ship? I think we've really gone beyond any reason. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S and PD]] In the same way, do we really want to argue that the security of the state and its citizens and public order were threatened by a few dozen Italian sailors and a hundred foreign shipwrecks who were asking to land, none of whom had been established any danger? As the Italian association has properly explained in a memory sent to all of you and for which I thank the association, the reasons of national security that can justify the violation of criminal law must be realized in a situation of real and present danger to the integrity of the State, to the life and safety of the people and to the constitutional rights, that is in real states of necessity. Moreover, during the events, the real interest that the Minister of the time explained was to pursue and obtain the redistribution of asylum seekers in other States, that is, they would never land - the Minister said - until some other foreign State had taken charge of it. It is really difficult, not to say impossible, to consider this public interest, due to the relocation of refugees, constitutionally relevant and however pre-eminent with respect to the right to freedom and health. For six days, in fact, the landing was not slowed down, as someone said, but concretely prevented and conditioned to the agreement of other European countries; therefore, Italian sailors and refugees were used as a lever of pressure for a political objective, not to defend the Homeland, please. Among those who propose to deny permission to proceed, the idea has spread that it is necessary to defend the government authority, declaring the political acts carried out by the members of the Executive indispensable. It is an evocative argument, except that it lacks legal basis, because constitutional discipline does not recognize at all the criminal unindicability of the political work of the governing body. On the basis of all these reasons, as in March, I shall vote to grant permission to proceed to the judges of Catania against Senator Salvini. The fact that you find particularly hateful the rules imposed by the former Minister of the Interior in terms of immigration and the right to asylum does not have any part in my decision because, moreover, none of these rules protect it today compared to the disputes of the magistrates. Mr. former Minister, you therefore have every opportunity to defend yourself in the trial, like all Italians, but you must not have the privilege of defending yourself from the trial because there was no overriding interest in it, no aggression against Italy and no state of necessity. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u12	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Santa Maria Institute in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u14	Mr President, we are discussing the request for authorisation to proceed to trial under Article 96 of the Constitution against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister of the Interior at the time of the events. President Gasparri, at the meeting of the Junta on 20 January this year, stated that the Junta is called to evaluate exclusively the existence or not of a public interest inherent in the function of Government. Senator Centinario, in a matter in many respects assimilable, argued that Salvini could not be held criminally responsible for the Diciotti case as he acted for the interest of the State and not for personal interest, moreover in implementation of the Government contract. Therefore, according to this very personal vision, if, to achieve a political objective, perhaps envisaged by the government contract, a minister ordered a murder, it would not be prosecutable. Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Ignorant! BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). That was exactly what Mussolini supported in the face of the Matteotti murder. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] But we built another Italy, another history and we built it with the Constitution. Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Ignorant! BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). We are a parliamentary democracy, but above all we are a democracy. Aldo Moro argued that success is entrusted to consensus: a Democrat can promote it with all his strength, but he can never demand it. This compass and democratic rule was lost by Senator Salvini: he thought it was possible to collect the consent and demand it only because he wanted it, regardless of the conditions that were dictated to achieve it. Only by the way, it is useful to recall the repeated absences of Minister Salvini from the initiatives of the European governments because, according to Salvini, it was more useful to be on television than in Brussels. At the end of the day, what are 130 people deprived of their freedom and dignity to be human in relation to the full powers of those who have invested themselves in the claim to be the protector of the sacred borders of the Homeland? But this insane conviction of his insane in itself has been translated into fact; it has resulted in a kidnapping of a person. No Minister can limit personal freedom; it is not his and it is not one of those full powers desired by Salvini. This House has a duty to clarify; to disperse the fogs and fumes of propaganda and to distinguish between political responsibility and legal responsibility. It can and must do so, in the beehive of the Constitution and constitutional jurisprudence (a judgment for all, No. 81 of April 2012). The spaces of political discretion find their boundaries in the principles of a legal nature laid down by the law at both constitutional and legislative level. You see, Senator Modena, there is nothing wrong, nothing bizarre: we are in full respect of our Constitution and its jurisprudence. One of the cornerstones of liberal democracies is the fundamental distinction between political responsibility and legal responsibility. The political actions of the Government have their judge in Parliament and in the electoral corps, no court can make claims; legal responsibility - criminal liability in particular - is personal and concerns the individual acts carried out. The government may like what it does in a given sector, but that doesn't mean that it can do it by any means. The means employed must be legal because it is the law that bases and limits the exercise of the public authorities. Outside the law no one can place himself, even if he does so because he believes he does the good of the Homeland. In cases of urgency and danger it may be necessary to carry out acts not authorized by law, but they are always provisional and limited measures, enacted in the face of an imminent and unpredictable danger. The presence of 131 migrants of various nationalities on board the naval unit Gregoretti of the Italian Coast Guard - a ship of the Italian Coast Guard - represented a state of danger for the Homeland, as Salvini claims? We are on the verge of ridicule, if not even beyond. The court of ministers of Catania explains why Salvini should be subject to criminal proceedings for what he has done, not for the political direction that inspires him and that the government has supported. It is not the political choices in the matter of immigration that constitute the head of charge, but a series of specific acts, carried out by the Minister in the exercise of his duties, that would have blocked the procedure of disembarkation of migrants thus knowingly determining the unlawful deprivation of the personal freedom of the latter, forced to remain in critical psychophysical conditions on board the ship Gregoretti, moored in the port of Augusta until the afternoon of July 31, when the landing was authorized. That all this suffering was necessary to protect a primary interest of the State exists only in the mind of those who feel above the laws, indifferent to human dignity, careless of the fundamental rights of man, prisoner of a dangerous ideological political obsession, which must be defeated, constitutionally defeated, spoken of as defeat. That is why I declare my vote in favour of the authorization to proceed to Senator Salvini's trial with regard to the offence of kidnapping of a aggravated person, pursuant to Article 605, paragraphs one, second, number 2, and third, of the penal code. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD, IV-PSI and Mixed. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to retrace the chronology of events because they have been extensively explained by my previous colleagues. Rather, I would like to focus on some anomalies in the request of the Court of Ministers. First of all, allow me to reflect on the part of a person who has been practicing trials for forty years. I have to say, in fact, that in my ultra-fourth case experience, only three or four times I have the hypothesis that the prosecutor requires absolution or storage and the judge of the case does not accept the request, decides instead to proceed for a sentence. This is the specific case of the Court of Ministers of Catania, which, despite the request for storage, which the Attorney of the Republic of Catania has reasoned, decides to proceed with further investigations and investigations. After having carried out these investigations, faced with the umpteenth reasoned request of the public prosecutor of Catania to dismiss the matter, instead decides to transfer the application to the prosecutor of the competent Republic to ask the authorization to proceed against Senator Salvini for a serious crime: the kidnapping of person, that is to have deprived of personal freedom and movement some people, in this case 135 immigrants. I ask myself a question: were these 135 immigrants in a position to move freely in our country where they were sent down to a port considered safe? Were they people who legitimately entered our country, who could therefore boast and demand freedom of movement? Or were they persons in relation to whom it was necessary to ascertain why and how they had entered Italy and whether the conditions laid down in international conventions for which Italy was obliged to welcome and host them were fulfilled? If they had been released immediately - just as they were sent off the ship after five days - would they travel around Italy in a tourist way or would they have been put in a facility and controlled equally, as they were inside the ship Gregoretti? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Where, then, is the deprivation of freedom? Where's the kidnapping? The assumption of the crime is missing. However, the Court of Ministers of Catania does something more: it asks to acquire all the agendas of the Council of Ministers to check whether there had been an argument, concerning Gregoretti, on which there had been a unanimous decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to proceed in line with what Senator Salvini did. But, excuse me so much - I address my colleagues at the 5 Star Movement - what had changed since August 2018, when exactly the same things had been done and the Government, first of all the President of the Count Council, had assumed the collegial and political responsibility for that act? But does the Court of Ministers of Catania believe by chance that the Council of Ministers is an assembly of condominium that must meet on every subject and not instead a political and executive body in which once established an address this remains valid until its possible revocation? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Pizzol]] There has been no withdrawal within the Council of Ministers which has led the then Minister of the Interior to change his attitude. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] What were then the psychological violence and the violation of international conventions perpetrated by then Minister Salvini? On 27 July 135 immigrants present on two boats (one of the Guardia di Finanza and the other of the Harbour office) are transferred to the Gregoretti. What was the international obligation of Minister Salvini, the Italian Government and the Italian State? Help immigrants (this has been done) and check health conditions (this has been done). On the ship Gregoretti, for all five days, there has been the constant presence of a doctor who has established the health and hospitality conditions. When conditions were created for landing, for sanitary and contingent needs, some guests of Gregoretti, this was done without blinking an eye. On July 27, a pregnant woman was landed with her husband and two children. On the 29th, 16 minors were landed by the ship Gregoretti. Was Minister Salvini, at that time, the absolute contact person of what happened on Gregoretti or was there the possibility of another control? Well, on July 31 the acting prosecutor of Syracuse arranged a survey, following which he considered that, after those five days (in which the migrants were refocused, constantly assisted and controlled), there were no more conditions for the permanence of those people on the ship Gregoretti and, therefore, he ordered the disembarkation, which took place promptly, without obstacles and without any obstacle. I believe, then, that, unlike some of my previous colleagues, we are acting as a judge at the moment. Therefore, we must decide whether Minister Salvini's behaviour has been, in the meantime, conduct in violation of a criminal law and then aimed at gaining a personal political interest and advantage; or whether, on the other hand, they have identified political reasons and the existence of a pre-eminent public interest. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] I want to remember, for those who forgot, what happened at that time. Europe turned its back on us. She was deaf to the requests of Italy, who did not want to escape the obligation to receive and assist some non-EU countries, but wanted this burden to be distributed equally within the whole continent. Europe did not hear. Malta put in place obstructive attitudes to avoid resorting to the aid of immigrants within its territorial waters. And no one said anything. The other countries refused to receive quotas of migrants, not only of Gregoretti, but of all migrants who at that time landed on the coasts of the Adriatic. In our country there are 650,000 irregular non-EU countries, which cost 4 billion euros at the coffers of our country, which has unemployment above the European percentages! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] There is a huge economic crisis, but these are not sufficient reasons to legitimise a Minister of the Interior to proceed in such a way, to raise awareness among other European partners, without weakening the assistance and care of non-EU citizens. To conclude, Mr President, I am curious to know and to see how colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars will vote, who made passionate and heartfelt speeches in 2018 in defense of the behaviour of the Interior Minister himself. Then there was a partisan interest in maintaining the government, there was no voluntary, free choice. I also want to address Senator Renzi, of whom we learned the entrance - better late than never - to the guarantee club. He says that this process is "a bullshit," but because Salvini asks to be tried, we will settle for it. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] I respect, and I don't share, Senator Salvini's choice. We're here to defend the institution. We are here to defend the prerogatives of a rule of law. We are here to protect the political choices of an Executive, which was represented yesterday by Minister Salvini, who today is represented by Minister Lamorgese, who will be represented tomorrow by a Grillin Minister or the Democratic Party. I therefore ask you: have respect for the institutions. We show respect for ourselves, for the citizens and we vote no to the request of the Court of Ministers of Catania. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u17	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u18	Mr President, it is not for this House to try the former Minister, my colleague, Senator Salvini. It is up to this House to consider whether to grant authorisation for the eventual criminal liability of former Minister Salvini to be established in the trial with all the guarantees that our legal system guarantees and provides. We naturally hope that the Member will be able to demonstrate his innocence in the trial. For our part, the political judgment on his work and his government has already been given. In fact, this Assembly today, pursuant to Article 9 of the aforementioned Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, will have to verify whether the inquisition has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the functions of Government. The Constitutional Court has had the opportunity to clarify the meaning and scope of this provision. In particular, in some judgments given since 2012, the Court has specified that also the rules on the authorization to proceed for ministerial crimes, like all those that provide for forms of immunity from the exercise of jurisdiction, introducing an exceptional derogation to the general principle of equality (...) are however subject to strict interpretation and the spaces of political discretion find their boundaries in the principles of a legal nature placed by the law, both at constitutional and legislative level; and when the legislator predetermines canons of legality, to them politics must abide. In essence, the Senate today is called to verify the existence of supporting interests of the conduct contested by the court of ministers in relation to the crime of kidnapping of a person in order to "paralyse" - if this term can be used - the punitive claim of the State, i.e. circumstances that may eliminate the anti-judiciality of the facts otherwise classified as crimes: cases of exemption of responsibility therefore referable directly or indirectly to values protected by the Constitution that justify the compression and sacrifice of other constitutionally protected rights; in this case, personal freedom and freedom of movement and movement of migrants. However, the identification of such supporting assumptions, in order to be able to deny the authorisation to proceed, cannot be generic and indeterminate for the purpose of making the statement of reasons. The explanatory statement cannot be general, a lack which, together with the absence of a qualified majority in the vote, could constitute a vice to the procedure for the formation of the resolution itself. Therefore, by returning to the principle of legality to which the rule of law and our democratic system should call us, it seemed appropriate in Junta to ask the President, rapporteur, for an integration inquiry in order to effectively identify the existence or not of these prominent interests to protect which Minister Salvini would have acted, therefore attributable to Article 9 and usable as criminals, not being able, President, to identify them in the most generic motivation given by the former Minister, that is, to protect the security of the State, generally and generically linked to the access of migrants, as if only the access of migrants could constitute in itself a threat to the security of the State. Moreover, there seems to be nothing to note the observations, in the same memory as the former Minister Salvini, regarding the negotiation carried out at European level with the member countries for the purpose of the relocation of migrant shipwrecks. Let us not forget that these are not only migrants who enter the country irregularly, but who are shipwrecked migrants, who are therefore subject to the discipline of international norms and conventions and of internal norms implementing international conventions. In particular, the landing of shipwrecks would not have compromised the outcome of such negotiation and negotiation for the relocation, nor would it have prevented it, nor would it have affected the application of the rules of the Dublin Convention for the identification of the country of first entry, estimated that since the transhipment on the ship Gregoretti of the shipwrecked migrants and from the docking in territorial waters, the condition of presence in our territory had already been realized. The detention on board the Gregoretti is therefore a different case from that of the Diciotti ship. The ship Gregoretti, for its structural and technical characteristics, is not suitable to accommodate people in a state of overcrowding and for a prolonged time, that is, in the case of this case, from 27 July, day of the formal request of the assignment of the POS, to 31 July. The Gregoretti case is also different from the Diciotti case because, in the meantime, the security-a decree, namely Decree-Law No 53 of 2019, had entered into force, which had changed the set-up of competences, conferring on the Minister of the Interior all the powers relating to the entry into the State by migrants. Moreover, the conditions of detention on board the ship Gregoretti were precarious, even more so in this case, as indicated and certified, due to the health risk of contagion, the lack of accommodation and accommodation and the lack of medical equipment, cases for which on 27 July some migrants were authorised to disembark and, on 29 July, of minors detained on board, due to a specific measure of the court of minors of Catania. On 31 July, the acting prosecutor of Syracuse, as a final act, asked for the landing of the remaining 116 migrants for health issues, on which we had asked for further verification, through a preliminary integration, and for an infectious risk which, in fact, had been highlighted by two technical reports. The landing procedure therefore ended on 31 July at the authorization of the head of cabinet of the Minister of the Interior; the migrants were then transferred to the Pozzallo hotspot. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is no mention of the reasons given in the same memory report to justify the omission of the negotiations for placements, nor of the reasons for defending the public interest and security for the risk of terrorism, on which, moreover, we had asked for further investigation, having indicated a general assessment regarding the hypothesis that the access of migrants could, automatically, threaten public security and without having adopted concrete acts to protect public order and security from such threat of terrorism identified by the then Minister Salvini. It is therefore a general motivation, not consistent with a concrete danger of terrorism, with respect to the need for the possible identification of that constitutionally relevant interest, which could have been a criminal to the responsibility for the conduct of the Minister. The pre-eminent public interest of the Government, capable of affecting legal situations in a concrete and specific way, cannot in any way be confused with the merely political objective, called for by several parties, which would be considered as a kind of reason of state; this would, on the other hand, prefigure the risk - which the reform of Article 96 of the Constitution had wished to exclude - that the governmental action put in place by the members of the Executive can never respond to possible criminal responsibilities, representing this a privilege. The presuppositions of the Minister's conduct, together with the request by a qualified majority of the chamber vote, therefore constitute the grid of the limits of legitimacy of the process of formation of the parliamentary resolution and the only boundaries within which this Assembly can deny the authorization to proceed requested by the court of ministers; conditions of legality that we believe cannot exist. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the speeches and I fear that the mistake of repeating that we do not have to go into the substance of the matter, but in the end we do so and also in a misleading way. I remind myself and the whole House that we must decide - it has already been said, but it must be clear in order to highlight our task - whether the behaviour of former Minister Salvini has been put in place in a government action not for the existence of a pre-eminent public interest, but only for the pursuit of a preeminent public interest, or whether this behavior has been an extemporaneous and isolated behavior, which I believe is obvious to everyone not having been. Unfortunately, what happened? It happened that, despite the commitment of President Gasparri and some of us in the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity, we wrote a bad page in the history of the Senate of the Republic and the institution of the Junta autodicia. There has been a loss of the third-party we were meant to be carriers of, there has been no guarantee and protection of this third-party. This is a negative page which, unfortunately, is also likely to extend to the work and vote which the House will be voting on this morning. All this constitutes a precedent and, as has already been said, the former has a de facto authority and in parliamentary law, therefore in the activity that we carry out, the previous decisum, that is, the previous one, becomes even more important. In particular, as I think it is clear to everyone, this applies to the precedent that happens in the same parliamentary term. Now it is clear to everyone what happened about a year ago and what is happening today. What has changed from the eighteenth story to the Gregoretti story? Does anyone really want to argue that it has something to do with the size of the ship? I want to hope that we can return to our task, to what is our interest as the Senate institution of the Republic, to ensure that reality and truth are protected. The reality clearly says that the behaviour of the Government is in continuity from the Diciotti to the Gregoretti. In fact, the Count I Government, as we call it, has been characterized by a sort of firmness to make Europe responsible, to have a sharing and support from the other countries, who seemed to be totally disinterested in what happened with the landings in our country. There has therefore been a sort of continuity in making the arrivals and landings by the entire Count Government as complicated as possible, I must not remember. What is it, in my opinion, so that, in addition to the fact that this was a government activity, the pre-eminent public interest can be configured within the government's activities? Have decisions been taken regarding government activity? Yes. Have they been consistent with government activity? Yeah, they weren't contradictory. Have they been shared in the course of government activity? I still do. Were these activities known to all ministers and all political forces? Yes. Well, these requirements are all present, they have all been recognizable. We have even witnessed an assumption of guilt on the part of the President of the Council and some Ministers within the Council in relation to the Diciotti case, but the entire Conte Government has shared a policy aimed at making it as difficult as possible to make landings, even to prevent them. This is known to all. Whoever should say otherwise clearly affirms the false. It therefore becomes complicated, if not impossible, to isolate and identify a single event, as we are trying to do today with the Gregoretti case. It is not a single event, but it is part of a government policy which, I remind my colleagues, we must only recognise as such, we must not share it, we must not agree with what has been done. All we have to recognize is that what was done was a line of government. Of course, the context has been particular. We all remember, in the period between the end of July and the first days of August, the coldness that was present in the Government because there was already air of crisis. The former minister Salvini was particularly isolated and on the part of the other members of the government there was silence not so much about the fact itself, but because of the coldness that arose from an ongoing government crisis. Of course, the manners, striking behaviors and a certain protagonism, in truth not only of former Minister Salvini, can mislead our judgment, but they must not do so because our judgment must instead focus on the action of government and on the pre-eminent public interest that, as has already been said, must not exist but must be simply pursued. I believe, colleagues, that no one misses the difference. Returning to those days, there is another element that has been pointed out as proving the isolation of the actions of Minister Salvini from the Government, that is the fact that in those days a single Council of Ministers was convened and that the Gregoretti case was not on the agenda. I believe that this issue, on the other hand, proves exactly the opposite, because we either did not know what was going on - but we all know that it is not so because the case was on all the front pages of the newspapers - or, if the fact was known, it is clear that silence could be considered a silence-consent. If that were not the case, it is clear that within the Council of Ministers any minister, or even the President of the Council, could raise his hand and raise the matter. Even if the President of the Council had not agreed with what was happening, he could, as we see often, convene an ad hoc Council of Ministers at any time of day and night. But this did not happen. In conclusion, President, we can only see the obvious presence of the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest and the sharing by the Government of all acts relating to the Gregoretti affair. This is undeniable and obvious, and for these reasons, therefore, I hope that we can avoid writing another negative page in this House, because the decision can only be to deny the permission to proceed in this matter. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u21	Before giving the floor to Senator Zaffini, I would like to point out that if any senator shows the need to put forward his views in more than ten minutes for the general debate, he can ask the Presidency, in accordance with Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure, and the Presidency can, having appreciated the circumstances, arrange it for one member per Group. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess a little uncomfortable because this morning I was prepared to make political reasoning in this debate. I have witnessed numerous interventions that, entering into the details of the story, telling - obviously everyone for their part and according to their own conviction - and bending the details of the story to their own interest, have substantially replicated a piece of process. It was rightly observed by Mr Ginetti. I leave this matter to the lawyers, since there are so many lawyers in this House. Let us say that the second category most represented in this House is that of lawyers, while the first category is that of "phenomenons." I therefore leave this exercise to the lawyers present in the Chamber. I do politics, I want to do politics and I want to talk politics. It has been said by other Members that the matter has seen other ministers behave in detail in a way that is probably even more serious, according to the considerations you have outlined. It has been said of the collegiality in which Minister Salvini has made his choices. The dialectical context, with a deaf Europe to the needs, repeatedly expressed by Italy, of a fair distribution of migrants, according to the treaties signed, has been rightly said. All this, however, does not give me any other feeling except that of the confirmation of the instrumentality of the act that we are to comment this morning. The instrumentality that characterizes the attitude of the Left, as far as I am concerned, is known and I have verified it in person in the events that concerned the Junta for the Rules of Procedure. In that meeting I reiterated that, with great generosity, President Alberti Casellati had allowed the enlargement of the Junta in the vicinity of important decisions which were the background to the meeting of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. A generosity obviously misinterpreted by the Left's colleagues. I said of the instrumentality of attitudes that, simplifying and going to extreme synthesis, justify for example the fact that the Democratic Party continues to govern despite having lost all the electoral appointments for a few years now: card wins, card loses and you play with the institutions so that you always sit and attached to the chair, and above all in order to heavily condition the choices of the Italians. All this, however, has a limit; there is a limit to everything, colleagues of the Left; there is a limit to every kind of attitude, to every instrumentality, to every use of the institutions in order to remain clinging to the election of the next President of the Republic. There is a limit to all this and it is determined, as someone else said before me, by the previous one: there is a serious precedent that you try today to put into the state's order, that is, that a Minister, even in the context of collegial decisions and anything else, can be tried for individual criminal liability. This is a serious precedent, ladies and gentlemen, which can affect everyone from tomorrow and in the future. Obviously this will happen, it is quite normal for that to happen. The memory thus flies to other bad seasons of Italian politics, in which the powers of the State were used to subvert an order established by voters in the ballot box, a practice that now seems to become norm and rule, which seems to become consolidated at the time when in Italy we vote for everything: we vote for Sanremo, we vote for those who win the "Great Brother" for those who go to the "Isola dei famosi" (Island of the famous people), but we do not vote for the Government of the country, we do not vote for a legitimate Government that can adopt the legitimate choices of a community, that of the Italians. We cannot vote for what counts and we can vote for everything else (panem et circenses said the Romans who preceded us). This, Mr President, in my opinion is a move of despair, it is a weapon of fear, which leads you to retrace roads already crossed in dark seasons of Italian history, to try to force your hand and subvert what the Italians legitimately want to choose in the ballot box. I suggest great caution, colleagues. Yesterday, immediately, speaking with my colleagues in the League, I felt I was suggesting not to mess with other bodies of the State that, in the past, have demonstrated all their strength and all their ability to influence politics. Let's not joke, let's keep the paths and the containers very distinct. Today, however, I would like to suggest to you, colleagues who are going to vote on this act, that you do not joke with history, that you do not force the Italians' bonomy and patience, because compared to this decision I feel I use popular wisdom: you know where you start and you do not know where you arrive. The landing point is unknown. Do you feel like trying and condemning what is currently the leader of the country's first party? Do you feel like doing so on a matter that has no real connotation, but is it purely political instrumentality? Do you feel like setting this precedent with such lightness? I advise you not to do that. Do not joke with the powers of the State, which as I have already said have had the opportunity to prove that they can put their hands and feet in the decisions of politics. We allow everyone to carry out his/her task, that everyone covers his/her own field and above all restore dignity to politics, to the choices of the government, to the decisions communicated to the voters and to the popular legitimacy taken on choices communicated in advance to the electors themselves. All this you are trying to turn it upside down, you will take responsibility for it, we obviously, as always, are on the side of the Italians. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u23	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after less than a year, the matter we are dealing with today is returning to concern us with the request to refuse permission to proceed with the former Minister, Mr Salvini. Already in itself this is quite singular. As has been said, we must not decide on his guilt, but we must determine whether, in practice, the criminal circumstances laid down in paragraph 3 of Article 9 of Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989, i.e. whether the inquisitive minister has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant State interest or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest, in the exercise of the function of Government, are being used. Only by making use of the conditions laid down by constitutional law can the Assembly, by way of exception, remove the citizen minister from justice. I will not dwell on the facts, which I make known, but I just remember, also with reference to Senator Stefani's report, that the rescue and rescue of people from the sea begins on 25 July and that everything that is charged to the Minister instead holds the period from 27 to 31 July 2019. Therefore, the Commission's requests for interest and everything that happens between 25 and 27 July do not appear for the judiciary. It is necessary that I now reflect briefly, because I recall several times, on what represents an analogy and on what instead represents a difference from the evocative case of the ship Diciotti. I would remind you that, in March last year, when I voted for permission to proceed, I asked my colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars not to grant Mr Salvini immunity. Today I have to point out that there are indeed some similarities with that case. It should be said, in particular, that the place where the alleged seizure takes place is an Italian military vessel. So, as Senator Bonino has been well said, how can we seriously say that there was a threat to the good order and security of the state, coming from 135 unfortunates, on board a ship of the Italian Navy - Coast Guard? How can it be said that, by not landing them, the borders of the State would be defended, if the borders of the State include that ship? Those people were in Italy, in every respect: legal, criminal and administrative. Therefore, detention on board is an unnecessary cruelty. This is a fact, which shares this event with that of the Diciotti ships. There are then, however, the differences, the first of which is the type of ship involved in the two events. How do you say it doesn't matter? The Diciotti is a ship of 100 meters, built and equipped, with the appropriate accommodations, for the relief of the height. The Gregoretti is a 60-meter ship, which has been built to do surveillance fishing and cannot keep a large number of people on board, for such a large time. The Diciotti, in emergency, can hold on board up to 600 people and this is not an opinion, but it is a constructive criterion, the Gregoretti not. In those circumstances of time and place, on board the ship Gregoretti 135 people could not find shelter and shelter from the weather: with 35 degrees in the shade, all those people, in the conditions of despair in which they were, were on the deck, that is, exposed to the sun on metal sheets. That's the situation. In addition, the medical situation on board, certified by a doctor not of the State - attention - but of the Italian Relief Corps of the Order of Malta (CISOM), i.e. by a volunteer, was of particular precariousness. As a result of the criticality of some of those situations medical evacuations were carried out (MedEvac), i.e. operations related to the maintenance of life. Instead they were left on board - as is certified also by the technical consultants sent on board by the public prosecutor Fabio Scavone, that is the regent of the attorney of Syracuse - and certified 29 cases of scabies, a highly infectious and widespread disease that in that environment, in those spaces reduced on board, could not have had a favorable evolution. For this reason, Mr Crucioli had asked for an integration inquiry, in order to know if there had been a further health investigation on the ground to verify the possible worsening of the situation, what could have involved an argument in favour of the Minister, if it had been investigated. The most important of the differences - and it will seem paradoxical - is that the decree security bis had entered into force, which assigns, pursuant to article 19 of the United nations convention on the law of the sea (UNCLOS), the Convention of Montego Bay, to the Minister of the Interior the power (recurring the presuppositions, that they could not resort, then we will see why) to forbid the navigation to ships that can represent a threat, a prejudice to the public order, to the peace, to the good order of the coastal state. The above provision expressly excludes military ships and this means that the Minister of the Interior, despite a broad political battle perhaps intervened in the Council of Ministers, could not exercise any power over military ships. This is the government's wish, expressed by tabulas: the Executive had ruled out that the Minister of the Interior could ingest himself on the conduct of military ships. It is very clear and undeniable. This difference means, ladies and gentlemen, that there was no need to express any further distance from the Minister of the Interior: it is the decree-law itself that provides for it. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]] There is, then, something else. Remember what were the reasons for the denial of authorisation to proceed with regard to the ship Diciotti. It was said that there was a dispute, an international dispute with Malta. In this case there was nothing similar; indeed, in those circumstances for which a ship of the Guard of finance and the naval unit 319 of the Corps of the captains of port - Coast Guard have intervened in the rescue, instead there has been a perfect collaboration with the Maltese authorities, that in that fringe they were using the very scarce resources of which they have (and this should be emphasized in administrative terms) to make other reliefs. They asked for the collaboration of the Italian authorities, who intervened and opened the case of search and rescue (SAR), i.e. rescue. The rescue therefore begins as Italian and is coordinated by Italians and Italy has the duty to indicate the place of safety. This duty is activated through the request made by the Italian marine rescue coordination centre (IMRCC), that is from the National Center of coordination of the marine rescue, to the National coordination centre (NCC), an articulation of the Ministry of the Interior, which immediately reports, among all others, to the Cabinet of the Minister of the Interior. Then there is a further difference. In this case we have, from the point of view of the cognition of the case, also the testimonies, which are now public and therefore transfused into the acts of the court of Palermo. I am thinking, for example, of the testimony of Prefect Garroni, who came in his request for authorisation to proceed with open arms produced by the Palermo court. In this request there is the testimony of Garroni, one of the two deputy chief of Cabinet of the Minister of the Interior, who says very clearly that there is never any specific investigation or investigation on the danger of the people on board, that is of the shipwrecked migrants, and that action is taken in terms of general character. This point, with respect also to what Senator Ginetti said, is important to note, because there is no danger to the current, concrete and imminent public order to be faced and, therefore, that it could possibly also allow the detention on board of those people. The problem is that one cannot continue to talk in vain - excuse me - of such important and concrete cases; one cannot continue to speak as if we were at the bar. We must tell the truth to this House and to the Italians and the truth is that there was no concrete and specific reason or danger that it should be faced in terms of urgency and with immediate response. This is confirmed by the Ministry of the Interior. For speed I refer to what has already been said, in particular, about the nature of the act by Senator Ginetti, but I would like to specify to be careful because ours must and must continue to be a rule of law, that is, a state in which a citizen has the certainty that, if he has not done anything, no one in the long run can hold him back more than the time provided for by the penal code, but on the authorisation of the judicial authority. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]] The political act cannot contain a decision or a measure which in itself affects the legal sphere of the citizen, even though he is a migrant and a shipwrecked person. That's not possible. This is no longer a rule of law under these conditions. The rule of law is that in which measures affecting the person and freedom - one of the highest inviolable rights - come exclusively from the judiciary. Measures in general by the public administration... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] In conclusion, Mr President, the measures we are talking about must be open to the judiciary. Measures which are non-unionable are not susceptible, cannot affect the legal sphere of the citizen, even if they are shipwrecked. At this point I think it is important to call Senator Salvini to an act of consistency; I think he can do so. Soon, Senator Salvini will speak and I would like to hear him ask to give up immunity; it would be a nice gesture and I urge him to do so. Senator Salvini, even the people you speak of as your people I think you expect. They expect you to be consistent with the proclamations you've been making for two years. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Pizzini-Pisani" in Paola, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I draw the inspiration from the speech that has just ended: this is not a prerogative, a privilege that former Minister Salvini has. This is a task entrusted to us by a constitutional law, therefore by the Constitution, to establish a boundary between judicial action and the autonomy of political decisions. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] No one here can give up. It is the Senate that must establish it and the Senate must make a decision neither in defence nor even less against the person of Senator Matteo Salvini nor in defense or against his political line. The decision is whether there is a boundary between judicial action and the autonomy of political decisions. That's the decision. This is why the waiver does not exist: Senator Salvini may ask to make a certain decision, but he cannot give up immunity because the decision is not a personal protection, but the protection of political activity [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , which in this case was the activity of the former Interior Minister Salvini, could today concern the current Minister of the Interior or any other Minister. Senator Modena gave examples of the past on the issue of maròs or other situations: it is not a personal matter. Therefore, thanks to the agenda that Forza Italia has just presented together with Brothers of Italy, the Assembly will be called to vote on this. We will therefore ask that, under the Constitutional Law, permission be denied to proceed against former Minister Matteo Salvini because, under the Constitutional Law, we believe that the Minister acted to protect a prominent interest of the State. It is not a question of whether or not we agree with that policy; we generally agree, but that is not the point. It is a question of determining whether the act which has been the subject of legal proceedings has been committed for some strange reason and is not in the interest of the State in the first place or whether it has been done to protect the interest of the State. It is not a question of whether that action has been effective or whether we share it, but whether it has been done as a political act, and it is clear that this is the aim, we do not see what other aims might be there. Among other things, I note, with reference to those who often interpret the role of Parliament, the Senate, on this type of procedure - from the indisputability of the issue of arrests, which we have examined in the past, to today's issue of authorisation to proceed - that many people's approach is such that, since the judiciary has said it, we simply have to say yes. If that were the case, the Constitution should be trashed because it is precisely the Constitution that states that the Senate must express itself. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It's not some weird privilege. Indeed, the Constitution, in its original text, protected much more political action, because it had been written at a time when the intrusion of powers, one into the other, had been very recent. In that case - I am referring to the twenty years before the entry into force of the Constitution - it was an intrusion of political power into other powers, but it is clear that there must be protection in both directions. The protection for political action at the time was much wider, but what is still there cannot be interpreted in the sense of giving Parliament a simple role as a card-card compared to a request from the judiciary. And if we are talking about requests from the judiciary, I would remind you that the prosecutor of the Republic of Catania has asked for the matter to be dismissed because of the unfounded news of the crime. That's what the Republic Attorney decided. Then, that body that is the court for ministerial crimes, which is composed of three members drawn by lot among the magistrates of the district with at least five years of seniority, decided to act differently and asked, under the constitutional law, to proceed. To do this, however, he must ask the Senate to express itself. The Senate must therefore express itself in order to establish limits. The Senate is in danger of establishing a serious precedent, which, moreover, has no precedent in the application of the constitutional law, in force for decades, beyond the specific issues, which have been very well distorted by the report of President Gasparri in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, as well as by the report of the rapporteur, Mrs Stefani (both with a conclusion that we do not agree with) and by the many speeches made by my colleagues. However, the question is as follows: do we want to be a country where those who go up to the government, then end up in prison who ruled first? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] Or do we want to be a country where those who go up to the government try to govern better than those who ruled before, proving to be better, knowing that if it acts in the interest of the State (obviously according to a certain view of that interest), will not risk the trial and the prison? That is the point on which we have to make our voices, and that is why we have tabled an agenda, which we will be voting on with conviction. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u28	Senator Bongiorno is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and especially Senator Salvini, these days the debate has turned around a question: does he flee or does he not escape the trial? Will Salvini escape or will she not escape? As if it had already been established that Salvini should be tried and as if we senators, today, should only and exclusively ratify a decision already made. Be careful - I repeat, be careful - not to completely abdicate to our duty-power. It almost seems that today's issue is: who of us chooses to vote no at the trial uses some sort of trick, so that Salvini escapes the trial. I have heard debates saying that Salvini is fleeing, as if he was invoking a legitimate impediment, or was was wasting time through some good bubbling, or saying: I pretend to be sick, so no one is going to try me. Be careful, because, if you think like that, turn us senators into good bullshit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]] We're not good at bullshit. We don't want tricks. I also tell Salvini: don't be provoked. Don't be provoked. Because none of us here can somehow override the judges. Because, perhaps, what is not clear is that, at this moment, there is, on the one hand, a Minister and - think of a balance - on the other side of the balance there is the judicial power, which wants to process it. But the law says that when there are these two powers (imagine two plates of the scale: one lowers and one gets up), it takes a third judge. The law chooses us senators as judge right now. We're the judges. Either we understand this, or we don't understand anything! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] But I want to tell you something else. I have heard, in today's debate and in the last few days: but why should we be the judges? Let the judges do their duty. Let us transfer this decision to the judges. Perhaps the concept is not clear: what is judged in this House, which is the public interest, will never be judged at a later stage by the judges. Did you or did you not realize that this is the only place where you can evaluate? That's the point. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] The only question, then, that we have to ask ourselves is this. This House must judge: when Salvini was Minister of the Interior, the slowdown in the landing of migrants, pending some answers on redistribution, which was managing the Presidency of the Council, did it work in the public interest? Is proper and orderly organisation of flows and redistribution of migrants a public interest? Some might say, the Democratic Party for example: but we do not agree with Salvini's policy during his government. Well, you don't have to vote on the basis of government policy sharing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] What the law lays down is something else. Attention: if the act has been done in the public interest and I, Senator, have a different and opposite opinion on immigration policy, with a sense of pride, with a sense of responsibility, I must have the courage to say no. That's what the law says. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and the FdI Group]] I have known for many years that Parliament has been running away from some of its responsibilities. We are a little ashamed of being parliamentarians. We're a little ashamed if we say no today. On certain sensitive subjects (on some, among other things, I disagree with the League, such as the subject of assisted procreation, on which I waged battles with Senator Bonino) no one wanted to legislate. I am also talking about end-of-life matters: we are afraid to legislate. We're running from our functions. Is there an arrest request? Let's not go look at the acts! Who's this about? What did the papers say? We're emptying our functions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] I have only one fear and I tell you, really, for my experience, even in the professional field: I am afraid of our fear. I'm afraid of the back steps we're taking. I am afraid that we are falling behind and that we are perhaps pursuing, and perhaps for reasons of consensus, certain strange ideas that initially came from the Movimento 5 Stars or the Sardines. Stop chasing them! Stop! We must be proud of what we do. Remember that in the system of powers - and this is the story that says so - the void created by the crisis of one of the powers is always filled by the power that should have balanced it. Always! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] This is what Montesquieu calls the twilight of democracy: "Everything would be lost if the same man, or the same body of majors, or nobles, or people, exercised these three powers: that of making laws, that of executing public decisions, that of judging the crimes or controversies of private individuals." Attention: it is the twilight of democracy. Twilight. On the merits of the matter I want to say one thing and it is not an incorrect call. Okay? I say this for the sake of clarity: there is no call for fairness. There is a very strange new debate on the substance of the matter: those who have redistributed are all good. Since there is evidence in the record that the Presidency of the Council, even before the ship arrived, was active for redistribution, along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then the redistributor is very good. The one who manages the landing is bad, as if redistribution and disembarkation were two different things. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] Sorry, I want to ask Salvini something, because this is my thesis: it's me, Giulia Bongiorno, who thinks they're connected phases. I'm not credible, and I'm biased, you say. Then I ask Salvini to change his lawyer and get another lawyer to see what another lawyer thinks. Believe me, there's a lawyer, much more authoritative than me, who thinks like me and has declared it. Listen to these words: 'I am completing the checks', 'we of the Presidency of the Council have worked, because it is necessary to relocate and then allow the landing'. These, in relation to the ship Gregoretti, are the words of the President of the Council, Count. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Group Senators L-SP-PSd'Az stand up]] I therefore believe that no one can escape the fact that there has been a good debate these days - we have chosen the word 'debate' - within the framework of our Group. Senator Salvini, do not fall into the trap of those who want to shift their attention to the only theme that needs to be addressed. I know, you have a very understandable anxiety to see the correctness of your work recognized, but this cannot make you forget that the Senate has to judge anything else. Senator Salvini, your destiny is at stake, yes, but the autonomy of political power is at stake. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] I will respect my time, even though I have seen that, stealing minutes, I would take them from Salvini and maybe I would agree, in this case. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll give you three minutes. BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, I don't. President.Terms, please, Senator Bongiorno. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll give you five minutes. BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Okay. [[Comments from the PD Group]] VALENT (PD). The rules must be respected. BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). All right, let's avoid controversy. I want to express only two concepts: when we talked about this case, as a twin to that of the ship Diciotti, we did it because we are aware that the whole Government made decisions, as they document e-mails, but not to call anyone in fairness, because no one has committed crimes. We adhere to Professor Conte's thesis on the close connection between landings and redistributions. As far as the offence of kidnapping is concerned, that is not what must be decided here. I'm just saying one thing: I think it's really impossible to configure a "slow down on landing" as a kidnapping. Those who believe that there is a certain dishonor should have the courage to create a new incriminating case. You create this new incriminating case, that of "slowing down" and prosecution, but it is certainly not kidnapping. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] If our vote, of any one of us, will be guided by political convenience, by electoral calculation and by the desire to eliminate Salvini, we will all be composers of the score of the requiem that will accompany the sunset of the separation of powers. If you can, be free, courageous and strong. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this debate, which is unfortunately marked by many exaggerations, with the awareness that the first duty of a Member of Parliament, especially if he belongs to the Democratic Party, is to resist the temptation of the inexasperation of controversy which is an enemy of truth. We have heard many, even today, even in the last speech, with rhetorical artifices that leave us many doubts. We give a very harsh judgment on the migration policy of Senator Salvini, former Minister of the Interior: we consider it immoral, unfair, ineffective, because it was a failure policy, which did not bring results, it crushed values without improving the situation in any way. However, that is not what we need to discuss today; we need to talk about something else. Parliament does not have the task of judging the policy of the former Minister of the Interior; it is now up to Parliament to decide whether the Minister of the Interior should be removed from the course of justice or whether justice should take its course, in the case of the Gregoretti ship. That is perfectly clear to us. I want to say to Senator Bongiorno, who in his speech took on very cathedralic tones, that his teachings, from our point of view, are unfounded, but above all they are not required, because the Democratic Party Group knows very well what to do, what assessment it must give and what decisions it must take. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is a constitutional law, No. 1 of 1989, which states something very important: to treat a politician, even a politician with a lot of power, unlike any other citizen, and to decide to derogate from a fundamental principle of the rule of law, that is, the equality of all citizens before the law, there must be strong reasons, a reason of state, a constitutionally important interest, a prominent public interest. This we are called to say: if in the case of the ship Gregoretti Minister Salvini acted on the basis of a constitutionally relevant interest, of a pre-eminent public interest, of a reason of state. To us and to many it seems that it was not on the basis of a reason of state that Minister Salvini acted, but it was, as usual, on the basis of a much lower reason of party, which is another thing. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator De Falco]] I understand that the former Minister Salvini struggles, with his allergy to the rule of law, to understand the difference between a reason of state and a reason of party, between a reason of state and a reason of propaganda, yet the understanding of this difference lies at the basis of a sound policy. We believe that this difference is clear and that in the case of the ship Gregoretti there has been an excess and an abuse, that there has not been a reason of state to defend, but that other purposes have been pursued. We therefore see no reason, on the substance, why this procedure should not go on, so that the course of justice should be blocked. He'll judge a court and say if there have been any violations of the penal code, if there have been any crimes. Senator Salvini should be happy to be considered as every other citizen in this respect [[Applause from the PD Group]] , should not inflict on us any more propaganda toxins and poisons that poison the debate and turn it upside down, taking it away from the truth. I hope that your party, the League, will also be consistent. I recall what you did on 20 January last at the meeting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. On that occasion the League voted in favour of the authorization to proceed against Minister Salvini, took a bold attitude, showed an arrogance disguised as courage, but we all saw that it was arrogance [[Comments of Senator Augussori]] and did so because you were seven days away from the elections in Emilia-Romagna. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Former Minister Salvini had decided that that choice could be functional to the election campaign that we know about what was based on improper comparisons and exaggerated gestures, which I do not want to remember here. Here, courage and bravado cannot be alternating; if one is bravado one week after the regional elections in Emilia-Romagna, I hope it is the same today, that no election is in sight. We are genuinely curious to see what will be, even in terms of clarity and lack of ambiguity, the attitude that the League will want to take in relation to the outcome of this debate. I conclude by saying that as a Democratic Party, remembering very well what happened in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and also in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, especially at the sitting of 17 January, we were quite surprised by the content of the report by the rapporteur, Mrs Stefani. This is not so much because it is a very flattened report on the approach that President Gasparri gave to the debate, but because, in the end, the current majority of the Government accuses itself of having politicized the matter. We're almost laughing. Would we have politicized the matter? If there is anyone here who has politicized the matter, we must look for him in the benches of the current opposition, where the former Minister of the Interior and the President of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities sit. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In-depth investigations have been denied, they have also committed themselves in the Junta for the Rules of Procedure for forcing and rotating that the Democratic Party has condemned in the immediacy and that today, almost a month away from those facts, considers no less serious. In our opinion, third-party duties have been violated, which should remain sacred, never touched and instead have been done. It is not we who have made a politicization; others have done so. We feel we have to remember all this in a debate like this. We also feel, in the end, the need to ask former Minister Salvini, for the future, for a more prudent and appropriate behavior. From the stage of Comacchio in prey to the delusions of greatness that characterized that electoral campaign that is the background and context within which this debate unfortunately fits, the former minister Salvini did not find anything better to say that, if they arrest him, he will do as Silvio Pellico and write "My prisons". Now we have too much respect for our homeland history... NENCINI (IV-PSI). And for Silvio Pellico. Mr Parrini (PD). ...and also for Silvio Pellico, as Senator Nencini reminds me, to allow this casualness in historical combinations. It would take a little more seriousness, especially on the part of those who have held institutional roles of the importance of those held by the former Minister Salvini. We are talking about a book about which Chancellor Metternich said it damaged Austria more than a lost battle and, therefore, a bit of modesty in comparing with Silvio Pellico would not hurt. But if we have to talk about Silvio Pellico, my advice for Salvini is to read again, of course, "My prisons" because it never hurts, but also a two-year-old next book (it is from 1834) entitled: Of the duties of men. Speech to a young man. In a passage from this little book, Silvio Pellico states the following concept: "He who lies, even if not discovered, has the punishment in himself. He feels that he betrays a duty and degrades himself. On these words of Silvio Pellico, if you really cannot resist the temptation to quote him, I would meditate deeply, if I were in Salvini and in all the senators of the minority. [[Applause from the PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I do not adhere to political correctness: I obey, if I may, the wisdom of the people and the widespread feeling that they have other problems. They close companies, another major airline company has failed, but we must waste time, as it were, because this is also the policy and it deals with the problems surrounding television debates. In my opinion the opposition, the left, wants to treat Salvini as Berlusconi treated, for years persecuted in his companies, without solidarity, with the contempt of Italy and bringing the spread in 2011 to over 500 points. It was also mentioned here: you want to treat it as the American progressives treat Trump. Mrs Pelosi, with that gesture of absolute malice - in my opinion - with which she tore Trump's speech, while occupying an institutional position, has shown that progressives around the world behave in the same way. But Trump will win again. Is this a legal or political matter? It has been said that it is political. The Senate must make a decision that corresponds to the national interest. If the centre-right wins, this concept develops in a certain direction, and then it proposes more severity at the borders. If the center-left wins, they all come, so they're on everyone's side. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The President of the Council came to report here when the government crisis began and presented the new Government with a different majority, attacking the first minister and then former minister Salvini. That is not the case. We are talking here about programmes. The President of the Council is responsible for the collegiality of the institute that presides, as a president of the Region, as a president of the Province and as a mayor. It could - it has been said and I repeat - recall its Minister if he did not agree. It is said that Salvini would have asked for full power on a public beach and therefore - says Gualtieri - we must pay Papeete's debts, even if I did not understand which and I think, instead, that the debts are being made now. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] In the newspapers, then, it was compared to Mussolini and also beyond because, if you are not left, you are definitely fascist. But on February 7, one newspaper reported a seven - column article in another 1992 newspaper whose title was: Amato asks for full powers. I have the copy here. Amato asked them in 1992 and, if Amato asked them, it was fine. Was there a kidnapping in person? Then he also kidnapped the crew, and I hope it's included in the crime scenario. But that ship that in recent weeks has wandered around the Mediterranean collecting all for days and days, for the principle according to which the first ships have remained on board for at least a couple of weeks, has not committed the crime of kidnapping? Maybe we were on election days in Emilia and it was better to wait. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Then they always say they're all sick on board, there are women and children. The fact is that it is established that when they land, they disappear quietly. National interest is the defence of borders: a historic principle. But those who come here illegally have all the rights and cannot be condemned. We suffer from Stockholm syndrome. If an Italian commits an established crime, a road accident because he is drunk or under the influence of drugs or a crime of common crime, he goes to jail. If an immigrant does it, if he rapes - statistically the crimes they commit are immeasurable compared to those committed by Italians - if he makes an accident and kills a girl who walks in the night, if he is drugged and drunk, on the contrary he is free immediately, because "poor". We can support such a system. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] From which comes a welfare that involves an absolute deficit in public budgets, in hospitals, in assistance in general, even with an increase in the administration of justice? Just to stay on the subject, do we once again increase the diary in the centres in favour of the usual cooperatives and the usual pseudo-entrepreneurs? Upon today's judgment, I think there is the following question: what society do we want? A society where religion doesn't matter anymore, why are they all good? Looks like he likes it beyond Tiber. It's a private matter. On family and sexuality we can do what we want. The customs and traditions are for the elderly, who may not even have the right to vote, according to some television debate. We know, on the other hand, that on public transport, on trams, on buses, controllers no longer ask for tickets to certain people, otherwise they are beaten. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] We hear what the cops say in private: come with us to serve on patrol at night in our cities. We know - and this applies to Europe - what happens in the outskirts of Paris, in the British outskirts, throughout Belgium, where policemen turn disguised so as not to be recognized by their neighbors: we do not enter, there is another law. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] Speaking of the very serious coronavirus, even in Prato we do not know who there is and how many there are. That's the problem. But here it means that Salvini tried to contain immigration, so it has to be tried because everyone has to come. It is a society that does not recognize that there is an emergency on which no one helps us; Europe has never helped us, if not sporadically and pro forma. In my opinion, you lie knowing you're lying. A society that is at this point - and I am talking again about the common people - who are afraid and suffering - I repeat - of Stockholm syndrome, because it is partisan for those who arrive and delinquote, and justifies the murderers and rapists, is already dead. For these reasons Salvini has tried to contain immigration. I hope that a united centre will try again as soon as possible. Therefore, if the judgment is political, this House will give a political judgment and the Senate will say no to the trial. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u33	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the speech by the previous speaker is the typical example - I respect what you have said deeply, and I would not be able to question your opinion - of the way in which we are approaching today the debate on the subject that has been assigned to us. I believe that there is no intervention in this House that does not start from the premise that we do not have to make a political judgement, but we all give only and exclusively a political judgment. Let me tell you with sincerity, because some experience will allow me to say what I think, so much I do not have the problem to think about anything else, the following: colleagues, they did not convince me nor the office appeals in favour of Salvini, that frankly in some circumstances they seemed self-harmful (at least from the point of view of the case of law), nor the assessments of those who, after having explained that the judgment is not political, on the basis of a purely political judgment and a total and legitimate dispute - a dispute that I subscribe "from A to Z" of the political assessments on Salvini - arrive at the consequence that, precisely for this reason, must be tried. And they do it with claims that they're "beautiful." When you hear in this House that no one is above the law, that everyone has to comply with the law, it is a fantastic, very popular assessment, but it is not relevant to what we are considering today. We are considering - we continue to say this, but we continue to deny it - not the political fact of what acts Salvini has put in place, but only and exclusively whether these acts have been put in place for a private assessment or in contradiction with a government line. Now we have half the government that has moved: now it is in the government with the PD and I understand that they have some problem to settle the vote on the Salvini case compared to what they have decided on the Diciotti case, but on the Diciotti case I have expressed exactly how I will express myself later. There could be something that could convince me to change my vote and I will examine whether it exists, that is, whether the case of Diciotti and Gregoretti are actually different. This could happen in a single case, i.e. if for Gregoretti - someone makes this question, but I do not find the sign in the papers - Salvini has put in place his own personal policy that contrasted with government policy, with the guidelines of the President of the Council and the other Ministers. Colleagues, I must tell you the truth: I find no trace of this. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups and Senator La Russa]] I can't figure out how this is manifesting. There are people here who have some experience: there is Senator Monti, who was President of the Council, who was previously referred to in disrepute with his former Minister for Foreign Affairs; at some point the Minister for Foreign Affairs came into conflict with the Government and there was a sort of disassociation of destinies. But if there was a kind of disassociation of destinies between Salvini and President Conte, Count would have had all the instruments quietly: it was enough to convene a Council of Ministers and explain what the policy was. Count, in fact, on some things intervenes - this, yes, there is in the acts regarding - for example - the landing of minors, which in fact land. This shows that, if the President-in-Office of the Council had expressed his views, he had no difficulty in making himself known: he made himself known in the case of minors, and why did he not make himself known in the other cases? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Senator Stefani reminded her of the reasons before, referring to the statements that had been issued at the Ansa in those days by the Minister of Justice and the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, who had everything leaked, except for a disassociation. And then, ladies and gentlemen, life is beautiful because it is varied: it may be that later on there have been facts that have led to a disassociation, but posthumous. Today we are considering what happened then and it is on that basis that we must express an opinion on the subject of Gregoretti in relation to that of Diciotti. The Democratic Party is consistently pursuing its line. I frankly do not share it, but at least it has the advantage of being the same as before it comes back today, on the basis of an assessment that is exactly the same: they voted in a certain way before, they continue to vote in the same way today. Others have changed: it is legitimate, for Christ's sake. Excuse me, but I don't change, because I don't think there's a different case. I do not think there is any doubt that the actions of Minister Salvini are consistent and executive of the government program of which he belonged, as in the case of his previous acts and behaviors. The parliamentary majority of the time has made this policy, restrictive of migration flows, one of the central points of the government contract and the confidence that Parliament gave the Commission. If there was a different assessment, the Minister had to be distrusted by Parliament or denied by formal acts by the President of the Council or the Council of Ministers. So the real issue is whether he acted alone or in conflict with government policies, but there is no such contrast, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] I am very opposed to the substance of the policy that Salvini has pursued and - as I said in the past - I believe that it is the Italians who have to express themselves on the merit of the policy that the governments carry out. We cannot delegate this action to the judiciary in some sort of improper addition. Moreover, the judiciary made different assessments of the merits, because the prosecutor of the Republic did not make the same assessment as the court of ministers. Salvini today is an emerging leader and a divisive figure and it is clear that it is difficult to make an abstract speech, as if we were talking about Pinco Pallino and not the main opponent of this Government, but we must strive to do so. Remember, colleagues, that what happens to Salvini today in theory can happen to all those who have responsibilities of government. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] The wheel turns, colleagues, and what happens to Salvini today can happen tomorrow to Zingaretti or someone else. We must, therefore, determine whether the principles are always valid or whether they are valid according to the people who embody them. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the principles are valid, so I shall examine the agendas that will be presented and, consequently, my vote will be consistent with the idea that Parliament cannot be expropriated and that the political judgement on governments gives it to the voters and cannot be improperly delegated to the magistrates. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Senator Casini on his speech: politically we are very far away, but on this occasion he spoke as a Member of Parliament, regardless of his political position, and much of what he said I fully agree with. The debate we are holding today is unfortunately a very dangerous moment for our democracy. Anyone, and not only in this House, but also outside (including the youngest and the youngest), knows that Western democracies are based on the separation of powers, between legislative, executive and judicial. This is the foundation of our democracies. Nevertheless, today we are debating whether or not to put the Minister of the Interior to trial pro tempore, on the basis of the political choices he has made, in line with the choices of his Government. I want to pick up an invitation from our Guido Crosetto. He, outside this House - as you know, he is no longer a Member of Parliament - has expressed a concept which I believe should be taken up. Today we should try to avoid talking about Salvini and whether or not we should go through it today. On the other hand, we must focus on the role of the Minister of the Interior and whether it is right or not to put the Minister of the Interior to trial for the choices he has made as part of his government functions. And we must do this because the doors open to a very dangerous precedent, essentially that of subjecting government action to the approval of the judiciary. I would like to give some concrete examples of how serious this is. In 1999 the then Alema Government - the vice-president of the Council was the current president of the Republic of Mattarella - participated in the bombing of Serbia, which did not take place following a parliamentary vote and was disposed outside the decisions of the United Nations; it was therefore an action that today any judge could have considered in conflict with the Italian Constitution and with international law and, therefore, could have sent to trial D'Alema and Mattarella with the accusations of massacre and terrorism. It may sound like a force, but this is the way we're opening up. In 1997 the Prodi Government - Minister of the Interior was the President emeritus Napolitano - established the naval blockade off the coast of Albania; in that context there was a naval accident, with the spurning of a boat by an Italian Navy ship, which caused 81 deaths. For that event the admiral was tried and not the government; yet, according to what we are establishing today, we could have had a magistrate who asked for the charge of Prodi and Napolitano for the crimes of massacre. These days the government has established - for example - quarantine for those coming from China. This is a political choice, which the Government has legitimately made and which we share. However, do you realize that tomorrow a magistrate could establish that the carelessness of quarantine has been excessive and not motivated, that the choice of government was not due and that therefore the members of the current Government who have established it for those coming from China must be tried for kidnapping in person? We are opening up to a series of insanities that it would be good to understand when making the decision to put an interior minister to trial. The truth is that the choices that are being made are absolutely devoid of a high foundation and are mainly driven by pretentious accusations, made with two purposes. The first is very low: take out the leader of the main opposition party with judicial maneuvers. Basically, we want to apply the Berlusconi method to Salvini: we send it to trial, maybe one tomorrow we make it unelectable and we have removed a political problem. All this is particularly grotesque if you see the attitude of the Movimento 5 Stars, who voted against the request for authorization to proceed in the case of the ship Diciotti and votes in favour in the case of the ship Gregoretti. Obviously it is indefensible and the bizarre thesis according to which the members of the Government and Count had not realized that their Minister of the Interior was preventing the landing of the Gregoretti is so grotesque that it would be nice not to repeat it. It was in all the newspapers and we hope that our Prime Minister Conte will read them; if he had noticed an unagreed action in the Government, he could have raised the phone, made himself heard or removed the Minister of the Interior who did not follow the directions of the Government. The second aim, however, is even more serious than the lower objective of combating the political opponent by judicial means, and it is to pass the principle that a State does not have the right to defend its own borders. We want to pass the global compact principle, namely that immigration is an inalienable human right and, therefore, a state cannot take any action against illegal immigration. We don't share this. The choice of the Government Count I and the minister Salvini to prevent illegal immigration through the closure of the ports - as is well known - has never been of Brothers of Italy, that it has always said that the illegal immigration is fought with a naval block off Libya in order to prevent the departure of the boats and the dead at sea and with the seizure, the dismantling or, if you prefer, the sinking of the ships that violate the Italian borders favoring the illegal immigration. It is a different choice from that of the closing of the ports. Yet, the closure of the ports was a politically legitimate choice that the Count Government I took and that - it has to be recognized - has brought its fruits, however, radically reducing the number of illegal landings and immigrants in Italy and, therefore, pursuing the political objective that the voters had given to Salvini and the Government Count I to combat illegal immigration. We, on the other hand, want to pass the principle that this cannot be done and, if a government decides to take action to contain illegal immigration, then the magistrate who intervenes to ensure that this does not happen. Brothers of Italy will not invade the madness of putting the Minister of the Interior to trial for having done his duty. From the first moment we opposed the absurd demands for trial for kidnapping: we did so in the case of Diciotti; we did it in Junta and we did it again in Assembly without tactics; we do not oppose to defend our political ally, Senator Matteo Salvini, but we do it to defend the foundations of our democracy and to safeguard Italy's right to defend its national borders. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Floris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u37	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u38	Mr President, with regard to the request for authorization to proceed with Senator Salvini made by the Court of Ministers in Catania, we need to clarify - as many people ask us to do - and to take all aspects into account and focus only on facts. I'll try to do just that. First of all comes the balancing of the principles and values present within our system and, in particular, those having constitutional rank. This aspect is substantial because it is established by Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 in Article 9, paragraph 3, as already mentioned. Parliament's task is to verify whether there is a constitutionally significant interest of the State, i.e. the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest, in the exercise of government action. And the primacy must be identified precisely by weighing its balance with those rights also recognised by the Constitution that would be compressed or damaged by an action that could constitute a crime. It is useful to proceed in the analysis starting from the similarities and the differences between the current case and that of the ship Diciotti occurred a year before. In both cases the affair concerned two military ships with rescued persons on board and remained on board for a similar period of time, pending the authorization to disembark by the Minister of Interior. For the Diciotti case we found that the delay was dictated by the pursuit of public supporting interests, such as the resolution of the ongoing dispute between Italy, Malta and Europe for the reception and redistribution of migrants and the discipline and reduction of migratory flows and related shipwreck risks. In the judgment of appraisal of primacy of the interest of the State were analyzed the corresponding rights compressed from such action and it emerged that the ship Diciotti had technical and functional characteristics such as to be able to accommodate beyond 600 people - as already emphasized in this Chamber - and, therefore, beyond the 150 that received and for which there has been no specific feedback about damages suffered because of the wait. Therefore, that ship was considered a safe place. It therefore emerged that the only compressed right was on that occasion exclusively that of freedom of movement, which is not included among the fundamental rights, so to speak incompressible, such as life and health. It is therefore clear that, with the Diciotti case, explicit permissible limits have been drawn in the landing. So let us apply the same enucleated principles in the case of Diciotti in the Gregoretti case, in order to verify in fact whether or not these limits have been exceeded. In the case of the Gregoretti motor ship, also wanting to fly over the absence of disputes with Malta and the different international climate, much better at a distance of one year, especially with regard to the mechanism of redistribution of migrants in Europe, and therefore not being able here - for the economy of the times - to assess whether the delay of the landing of migrants was aimed at pursuing all the same state interests as in the case of Diciotti, what we evaluate here are the engraved rights of the people on board. Let's say immediately that the Gregoretti motorship, much smaller and used for coastal control of the fishing, is suitable to accommodate only the military staff on board; in the case under consideration, instead, it has had to accommodate more than 130 people. Therefore, considering the neurological and direct point, namely that of the rights involved, here it seems that those of health and human dignity, as well as of free movement, have been compressed. I would point out that I do not think that we must welcome all the migrants who arrive, nor that we must block all access to those who are at sea - we would miss it! - but we must note that, from the first days, numerous minutes have followed coming from all the involved figures (the commander of the ship, the sanitary team on board, the Harbour office, the NAS of Ragusa), known to the Ministry of the interior and from which it is clearly evident that the more than 130 migrants, among other things at sea already several days before, remained piled on the few square meters of the aft bridge, in weather conditions of strong heat - it has been spoken of 35 degrees - and sun swinging in the open, without replacement clothes, with only a small bathroom and for shower only a rubber tube on the bridge connected to a water point. The minutes speak of increasingly precarious sanitary conditions with the passage of time; health materials declared inadequate; numerous cases of infectious diseases (such as tuberculosis and scabies, among others) detected from the first day, with risk of infection declared as certainly high and gradually worsening, because it was impossible to implement health procedures under conditions of infertility, also causing for all these reasons the court of minors to impose the landing of 16 minors. Therefore, the small Gregoretti boat could not, under the conditions described, be considered a safe place. Among the minutes there is also that of the operating unit infectious diseases of the ASL of Syracuse that it was recommended to carry out, on landing happened, the screening for the main infectious diseases, extending the analysis - for obvious reasons - also to the military staff on board. Since, however, the findings of those analyses not present in the file available to us in Junta, and therefore not knowing what would happen outside, we presented an application for preliminary integration, which President Gasparri has always denied us, as well as other previous requests, in a totally unjustified way, preventing us therefore a complete analysis of the facts. Together with all this I would also like to mention and lament, albeit briefly, the forcing of the junta for the regulation which, having to decide on the timetable for the vote on our case, took at the same meeting hasty and contradictory decisions, which are also guided by the needs of the moment and, therefore, not at all suited to the permanent nature that should characterize this important body. In the light of what happened, on 20 January, when the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities met, and continuing the critical issues explained here, we were forced not to take part in the vote on the request for permission to proceed. So, to conclude, Mr President, in view of the judgment of balancing the rights and public interests pursued in this case, I can say that Senator Matteo Salvini, at the time of the events, held an inadequate conduct to the institutional office he held, operating not in the pursuit of a preeminent public interest, but primarily in violation of the fundamental rights of more than 160 individuals among migrants, medical personnel and even military crews, bordering them in precarious and harmful conditions for health, due to the conscious delay in granting the landing permit. For this and for all the reasons set out above, my vote and I hope that of many in this House will be to grant the court of ministers in Catania permission to proceed with Matteo Salvini's inquisition. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u39	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Caduti della Direttissima) in Castiglione dei Pepoli, in the province of Bologna. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u40	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before taking my judgment, I listened carefully to Senator Stefani's report and read several times the papers that the Presidency sent to the senators. Yes, Senator Casini is right. I have heard, beginning with his affectionate intervention, almost exclusively political, while it would be appropriate to stick to the dictates that we can read in the application for permission to proceed, because that is the question that is being asked. I read the two and a half lines: In the sense that (...) the order given not to land migrants had been made contra legem, i.e. in violation of international and national law governing the subject matter. That is the question that is being asked to us, to which we must give an answer before we proceed to the vote and, therefore, give a judgment. If I read the cards, I also add other data that is absolutely not marginal or to be thrown into a song. I think - for example - when the judge claims that there are repeated and lied to statements by senior state officials, particularly prefects and, in particular, a prefect Head of Cabinet of the Ministry of the Interior. I shall confine myself, Mr President, to reading the text. The theme, therefore, is not at all the relocation of migrants - the memory of Salvini focuses exclusively on this, but it is not the object of the discussion of this session of the Senate - but the refusal - I stress - opposed by the Minister of the Interior, for days, to indicate a safe port. That's it. This is not the same, but it is different from the Diciotti case, because in the case of Gregoretti it was Italy's responsibility, by norm and objective condition, to indicate the POS. The Gregoretti hosted migrants saved in an operation that was, from the beginning, all and exclusively Italian. There's more. Little mentioned in this Assembly is Article 10 of Legislative Decree of 25 July 1998, n. 286. The foreigner tracked on the occasion of the irregular crossing of the border is conducted at specific points of crisis to carry out signal detection operations. It was necessary that the so-called security decree had abolished or amended this rule, while it did not. So, how could one know who the migrants on Gregoretti were before identification? Were they regular, Senator Salvini, or were they irregular? Did they have a criminal record or not? But if they had not been identified, how could any judgment be reached on who they were? The Minister of the Interior, then as today, had and has only the power, I repeat, to indicate the port: nothing else. In this case, Senator Bongiorno, Parliament had decided, indeed if it had acted and you are, in this case, in the wrong Group. I read to you, quoting a statement by former Minister Salvini of 2013: "Padania is ready to disobey Parliament. We have hundreds of sections ready to be centers of struggle................................................................................................ There is a Parliament that had decided and there is a former Minister - then Minister - who has not decided to comply with and enforce a rule. Secondly, the collegiality of the Government is invoked in the decision, but the law does not provide at all - God save us - for collegiality to make ministerial behavior indispensable. At the limit, there would have been an effect of fairness, but not of cancellation in the protection and preservation of the norm. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD, and Senators De Falco and Unterberger]] If Salvini's conduct, therefore, had proved useful for the redistribution of migrants, the political act cannot be invoked to justify the violation of rights of freedom. Of course, and I say this without emphasis, but I say this, if there had been perhaps more coordination, as provided for in the Constitution, by the President of the Council of Ministers, he would not have done anything wrong. The last question, and I have concluded, Mr President, concerns the conclusions, at least my own. It has already been said, and I stress this, that we are faced with a completely political use of the migrant issue. Did it happen in the past? Yes, in the case of the previous Government; no, in the case of an even earlier Government, for Minister Minniti to reduce landings and did so by refining and enhancing international cooperation. So much so that, just to see the numbers present everywhere, there was a resounding drop of the landings on the Italian coast. In this case, on the other hand, a shorter path has been taken, but in order to go along it they had to throw themselves into a song years of civil battles and also a nice piece of the right. I'm done. I really hope to Senator Salvini that his defense is lucky and, therefore, will take effect. It belongs neither to my history nor to my culture beating, turning to judicial diverticuli, the political opponents. Not the enemies, the political opponents must be beaten politically and we must equip ourselves to fight them politically, beyond the judicial diverticuli, in which I hope no one trusts to resolve a political issue. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u42	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u43	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I believe that this intervention can only reiterate facts, circumstances and arguments which have to a large extent already been dealt with and which are quite clear. However, perhaps it is worth stressing again that we are not here to exercise a political function at the moment. We are not here to obey the discipline of the Group or party, but we are here at a stage in which the Senate has a judicial task and a judicial function. In other words, he must take off the role of the Member, Member or Senator, in part and assume those of the judge: this is what the law provides, which contrasts sharply with those who would like us instead to take away from this task and leave it to the judges who have to do so. It is as if in court the popular judges - a little too much comparison, but I want to do it not for the educated, but for theinclusive - decided to listen to the trial but to let the only two toned judges decide everything. No, we have the duty (not the right, but the duty) to evaluate all circumstances. The first question I ask myself, President, then is: since it is peaceful that in this affair the Government has worked to relocate to other countries a large part of those who were on the ship, would it have been possible to do so if in the meantime those who arrived underground in Italy had safely landed? It wouldn't have been possible. Senator Bongiorno even mentioned President Conte, who said on that occasion that it was necessary to relocate and then allow the landing. The word 'later', quoted by Senator Bongiorno, is the key to reading this story. It is impossible to imagine a different function between those who spoke of relocation and those who allowed those to speak of relocation: without the work of the Minister of the Interior, the President of the Council and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if there was (and there was) they could not have played any role. That's where my second question comes from. According to the penal code, the person who deprives a person of liberty is guilty of the offence of kidnapping. I wonder: did they have the right - because freedom is the daughter of a right (I can't consider depriving one who doesn't have freedom) - to land freely and unpunished, without any constraint and limitation, as a normal tourist who shows his passport and then is free? The answer is no, not only because they did not have a passport and they were not even in the condition of a citizen who has the right to enter Italy without this document, because only citizens of the European Union (and certainly not those) have the right to enter Italy without a passport; they were certainly illegal immigrants. They didn't have that right. There is another fact to consider. Attention: in 2018 Europe states that in relation to illegal immigration States must ensure reception places, rather than entertainment, to enable them to assess where and how they can then be allocated. Germany has already brought about the establishment of centres in this European standard, which are also called centres, in which it is allowed for eighteen months to hold those who arrive in the same way that the illegals in question arrived with the ship. Surely, if they had arrived individually and had had the misfortune to come across a carabiniere on the beach, the carabiniere would have stopped them, would have controlled them, would have blocked them. To prevent them from landing immediately is a different way of complying with an existing standard. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Senator Bongiorno said well: invent a specific crime, but this is not kidnapping in person, according to what I was taught at the university. I am not a jurist, I am a simple graduate in law, but he can also attend the sessions in Cassation, so some small experience I had it: no prosecutor would have seriously integrated in this case, for a citizen who was not politically to be prosecuted, the crime of kidnapping. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Then why? Because there is an ancient vice, a vice as ancient as the left. Alas, he has exported it even to America; we have not only been the discoverers of that continent, we have also taught the Americans that, if you cannot beat a politician with consent, the right way is to unleash him against the judiciary or a small part of it. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We're always the ones who teach the rest of the world. It's an old habit. We've lived it on our own, President. We experienced it when the center-right was in the government and we experienced it at all stages. For God's sake, sometimes we also offered a silver plate, it may be, but it was always an ancient vice: if you can't take down who is the number one coalition at that moment that opposes you, if the citizens do not want to take away his trust, try to put him in jail, preventing him at least to run and to hurt you from an electoral point of view. That's the truth. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr President, I think my time is running out, so I will not dwell on so many other issues. However, I would like us to think for once that these things do not pay and I turn to the friends of the majority. Of course, I cannot tell the Democratic Party, it would be too difficult, it voted in this way before it was in the government and it has always used this path; if it could make a XIX transitional provision of the Constitution: It is forbidden to those who are not left-wing to rule in Italy. It would be a nice transitional rule in the Constitution: you would get rid of it forever. It's not like that. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I appeal to others, not to the left, but to the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars: you cannot betray yourself. I have in mind all the statements by Di Maio, all the acts of solidarity when you were in the government together, which we have always applauded. Every time you have taken an attitude against illegal immigration, the Group of which I have the honour to be a member has always given you the vote. Do not betray, dear friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, this confidence that we also gave to you with a vow that would be dishonorable for your intelligence and for your political part. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are called upon to consider a request for authorisation to proceed with Senator Salvini. Let it be clear, it is the court of the Ministers of Catania, as is known, that it considers that there are elements such as to be able to configure as a ministerial offence the seizure of person aggravated against the shipwrecked - I repeat, of the shipwrecked - brought to safety from military ships, with operations of rescue coordinated in July 2019 from the National Center of coordination of the marine rescue. All of us - I am sure - remember the context in which the Gregoretti case broke out. We remember those days dominated by the euphoria of a minister who thought he was above the law. The Senate, however, is not called to judge Salvini's guilt, it will be the magistrates who eventually have to do so. We must not even give a political judgment here on the action of the - fortunately - former Minister of the Interior. Our task, as has been said several times, is to verify whether Matteo Salvini has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, that is, for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. I will concentrate, for the sake of time, on three particularly important aspects. Firstly, the conditions of health and hygiene insecurity of migrants were absolutely well known to the Minister from the start of the rescue operations. Many cases of infectious diseases, including scabies and tuberculosis, were detected from the outset. There was a serious risk of infection of the other migrants and also of the crew on board. The shipwrecks were to be landed immediately under these conditions. Secondly, unlike the Diciotti vessel, the Gregoretti vessel was not fully equipped for rescue operations because it was intended for fisheries surveillance activities, as the Minister has known since 27 July. The ship was therefore unsuitable to safely accommodate a considerable number of people, for so many days. This had been communicated, it had been emphasized by Commander Berlano who said in his initial report: before the prosecutor of the Republic of Syracuse: The migrants are, in fact, hosted on the deck exposed to atmospheric agents. On the other hand, the same crew was composed of only thirty units, an absolutely insufficient number to manage the high number of shipwrecks. Our military, for the prohibition of landing imposed by the Minister, were also exposed to the risk of mutiny, as well as to that of contagion. Third point: in the case of Gregoretti, it is clear from the outset that the relief operations, although carried out in the search and rescue area (SAR) of Maltese competence, were immediately assumed by our country because the Maltese authorities were simultaneously engaged in other interventions of the same nature. Without prejudice to the fact that no dispute could have suspended the implementation of the international norms that regulate the rescue at sea, as wrongly motivated both by the rapporteur Gasparri and by Minister Salvini in occasion of the case Diciotti, in this case it is absolutely peaceful that from the first moments the indication of the place of safety (POS) that is the place of safe disembarkation, it was up to the Italian authorities, as immediately communicated to the commander of the ship Gregoretti when it was ordered, for the adverse weather conditions, to head towards the port of Augusta, already assumed as place of disembarkation. Nor can it be argued that it was the entire Government and not only Minister Salvini who managed the Gregoretti case. This hypothesis, among other things, has already been rejected a priori by the Court of Ministers of Catania, which carried out further and in-depth investigations to exclude the involvement of other institutional actors, who would have acted in the role of competitors in the crime. Firstly, the identification of the POS, the place of landing, is a typical act of the Ministry of the Interior of an administrative nature and absolutely is not an act of a political nature, nor of a high administrative nature. Secondly, the arrival in a safe place, as provided for by international and national standards, has nothing to do with the redistribution policies that are fully part of the action that the Commission intends to take in order to implement its immigration programme. Mr President, given the limited time available, if you listen to me, I would ask you to submit to the documents the text of my speech in which I clarify in more detail the further and multiple aspects of this matter. Whoever's silent consents, so I give it for acquired. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]] In conclusion, the Senate today finds itself having to evaluate one and only one thing: the Minister of the Interior has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or, alternatively, Salvini has seized dozens of people on board an Italian military ship without the necessary health guarantees in order to pursue a pre-eminent public interest? These are the questions we have to ask ourselves. At stake is not the future of a senator but a principle of strict legality that is at the root, the foundation of our democracy. The strongest facts of propaganda, more stubborn than mystifications, offer us an unequivocal answer. Maybe Salvini felt untouchable, given the precedent of Diciotti, or perhaps he was intoxicated by the surveys that saw him on the rise. He certainly did what he did by proudly declaring it in those days, knowingly going beyond the perimeter of the actions allowed to a minister. Our borders were not in danger, national security was not in danger, there was no international dispute. The only objective was to scare Europe with blackmail, to punch the Community tables, the ones that it has always deserted. A strategy that has never brought him results. To do so, he was still willing to deny the fundamental rights of 131 human beings. A man's personal freedom is always worth more than one point in the polls. For this reason, and only for this reason, the Senate should allow the judiciary to go through with it. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u46	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u47	Mr President, the role of President of the Junta and rapporteur, although the report has not been adopted, prompts me to address this issue in accordance with my remaining functions as President of the Junta. I have to say that the report by Senator Stefani, who, under the Rules of Procedure, did not approve the report, has acquired the title of rapporteur, shows to a large extent that I have had the opportunity to explain in Giunta, except for a conclusion that is political in nature but does not dispute the comments and assessments that have been made. In the meantime, I am glad that there has been a debate and a debate on the substance. I spent many weeks under the pressure of journalists who then do not know the regulations and details of such complex events, discussing a date: whether to vote on 20 or not, whether to wait for the return of the mission to the United States and if the vote was conditioned by what facts. I want to remind my colleagues that someone has also spoken of forcing and third-party activity, even if someone is perhaps more a "tertiarist" than a third person (the third party is the one who does some low-profile trade), that we voted on a calendar unanimously when it was already known that there would be regional elections in Calabria and Emilia and when it was already known that some had a mission in the United States. So much so that the date was set on 20 January, and not 18, to allow the arrival, re-entry and disposal of jet lag to colleagues engaged in an institutional mission. Then other events arose and inaccuracies were also said today. No one denied other cards. How could this have happened? President Marcucci, not knowing the procedures well, one day made a false statement. Before, it was said that I denied acts of instruction: but how could I deny acts of instruction? The world would have collapsed. We are in the Senate and the Junta, places of transparency. Requests were made and, when the applicants saw that they would not be approved, they left the Junta. If the request is not approved, I shall leave; this has happened and is in the act (I also tell my colleague Gallicchio and others). Except for the record, I have a good memory. I realize that procedural matters may seem secondary. Instead of the dates of the meeting, it was discussed - and only that - for weeks. Although we are interested in merit, nothing has been denied. First someone said we're judges here, and we should be third parties. We really have to be. We are here under Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, which does not allow any impunity. When Senator Bressa, who previously spoke of impunity for murders, will be Minister and steal the Salamini from the supermarket will be quietly tried, because he will not be able to say that a minister who steals the Salamini from the supermarket has done a ministerial or government act. So little irony about murders or other things. For a short time, I ask Senator Bressa to read the reports on the Diciotti case and on the Gregoretti case that I have done, and which are in the proceedings, which also trace the legal aspects and examples of when a crime is ministerial and when it is not, when a procedure of this nature is initiated. This is what we are talking about, and those who will have to make a judgment of it will have to take into account, if this House will unfortunately vote in favour of the process. Returning to merit, Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 does not give total impunity to the Ministers: it must assess the Senate whether, as has been said several times, there has been an action by the Minister - such was at the time Senator Salvini - done in the interests of the constitutionally relevant State or the protection of a prominent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. This is something we need to assess and ascertain, and many of our colleagues have already said very comprehensive things. Then there is Article 96 of the Constitution. I want to go into the matter right away. In the meantime, there is a precedent: this House has voted on the Diciotti case. It is not that the precedent, the decisum, as the lawyers would say - I am a journalist, not a lawyer, but some term we must use it - is irrelevant to the purposes of the future phases. Then there are some groups that last time consulted, before voting, the Rousseau platform. Consult the platform of seriousness today before voting in this House [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] ; consult the platform of truth, not that of poor Rousseau, who will turn into the tomb for several years now. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not vote here because one was an ally and today it is not. I understand the political choice of my colleagues in the League, but I invite you to think about it. I understand the challenging attitude, which is political - I do not miss that - but here there is a merit: one does not run away from the process, but one affirms the right of a man of government to protect the national interest by voting against this request for a trial. It is exactly the opposite: it is not the protection of the escape, but the protection of the action done in the interest of the country, ruling the country, to protect prevailing security interests. So it is the opposite of escape; it is the present presence. I think the things we said in Junta were absolutely right. Regarding the issues of the involvement of the Government, the President of the Council, Professor and Count lawyer - and in my report, therefore, to the acts, and also on the agenda in dissent from the conclusions of the Junta are reported the sentences of President Count - on September 12, 2018, sitting here in the Chamber, a few meters from us, explained the lines and the action of the Government. We must therefore not vote on the Government Pact, but we must evaluate the government's action in the light of the line that the President of the Council has outlined in this House. It is not that Salvini, then Minister, was a lonely lunatic who acted having fun so that who knows what perversion animated him. As for Conte's line, it will be said that he had spoken on the Diciotti case and here we are talking about the Gregoretti case, which is quite another thing. The ship arrives on July 25, 2019, on 26 morning - it is all documented, colleagues, President Grasso, has been quoted but I want to quote it again so that it remains in the record - Mr Benassi, diplomatic adviser of President Conte, sends an e-mail (in time he would have sent a knight, a horseman, a telegram) to the representative of the Government, and therefore also of Count, Massari, ambassador to Brussels, in which Benassi (who did not act in a personal capacity) said that it was necessary to see if the various countries would welcome those refugees, those immigrants, those illegal people who were on board the ship. There is a correspondence, which is in the records, in which Ambassador Massari - representative of the Count and the Government, not a representative of the League or of Salvini; not a childhood friend or a lifeguard of the Papeete, but the diplomatic representative of the Italian Government in Brussels - says that from Europe they had no answer because, as he says at some point, there was the weekend. You can go and consult the records, colleagues. Then they say that perhaps Luxembourg is available, perhaps four countries, perhaps the Netherlands, France and others are not. It's all in the record. Diplomatic representatives say that they are in constant contact with Michou, an official of the European Union. They write to Mr Belloni, Secretary-General of Foreign Affairs. They are high bureaucrats of the state, people we know too, they are not passers-by who are there to make the rallies. This negotiation lasted five days and ended on the date of the landing. Maio, then, said the forgery when he said that there was automatism of the distribution of illegals. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups and Senator Rufa.]] That wasn't true! Di Maio, vice president of the Council of the time, lied, because otherwise Benassi would not have written to Massari, Massari to Belloni, Belloni to Michou. It's all in the record. They knew they were on the ship. In one of the e-mails Count Benassi's advisor writes: "People saved in the sea and currently on board of the ship Gregoretti". [[Applause from the FdI Group. Comments of Senator Marco Pellegrini]] I apologize for the pronunciation, but they wrote in English that those were on the ship. Then there are other cases, of which I have already read in the newspapers, but I do not want to anticipate the third case that will come. Count has participated in many things, when you write you must remember that it remains a trace. The third case, that of the Open Arms, we still have to discuss it in Junta and there will be fun, because I read in the newspapers that this is more complicated. We'll see who the third case is more complicated for. If we then come here to vote because we are not allies today and yesterday we were allies, but today it does not go and tomorrow it goes, we make a political use of justice in this House too. We make political use of our role as justice. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups and Senator Rufa. Ironic applause from Senator Pellegrini Marco.]] And we, my dear colleague Salvini, have been guinea pigs. In this building was also denied the secret vote on very delicate events and we do not forget it! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups.]] The merit is very clear: the Government was involved, Count sent letters (Benassi, Massai, Belloni; not passers-by, but senior officials of the State), is a government action. After five days people landed, then I think they almost all ran away to the right and to the left, but there was a negotiation because there was no automatism and so many things that were said are not true. As regards the President-in-Office of the Council (in the third case there will be a lot to study) I would like to point out that in the Constitution there is not only Article 96 which leads us to this type of activity, but also Article 95. This morning I heard many "professors," including the example of murder, which is absurd and strange, but in the report there are also the examples we have made for the uninformed of the law. Article 95 of the Constitution, President Conte, virtually present here: The President of the Council of Ministers directs the general policy of the Government and is responsible for it. It maintains the unit of political and administrative direction, promoting and coordinating the activities of the Ministers. So the President-in-Office of the Council, whoever he is, at any time he coordinates and directs: it's written in the Constitution and because Count won the university contest - I don't know how - he's better than me and so he could give an order. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco]] Co-worker, he could give an order! With regard to the meeting of the Council of Ministers, the President-in-Office of the Council may, in accordance with constitutional requirements, give an order or directive without any meeting, for his authority and the functions entrusted to him by the Constitution. Secondly, we have read it backwards: not holding a meeting means that we supported what was happening. If he wanted to do things, he could bring the Council of Ministers together before the public and take on a different responsibility. He didn't, because he agreed. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] That's the truth! Let us evaluate the acts and not the conscience or the fact that he was fully in agreement or was roused by doubt: we are not on the night of the Innominate, that he had to solve his doubts and convert. Here we are at the Senate of the Republic, not to guarantee impunity to someone, but to act under Article 96 of the Constitution and Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 and to assess not whether anyone has fled the trial but whether he has acted as a member of the Government, in the protection of a prominent public interest. This I supported, guaranteeing everything to everyone, with discussions and debates in Junta. If someone doesn't come to the Junta to discuss, it's him who runs away from the trial, which is what we have to educate, not the others. They come and argue, just as we did. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I also imagine the outcome of today's vote, which will probably not leave me satisfied, but I, who am a democratic MEP, respect the House, respect the Junta, but also respect the rules of law. Look then, colleagues, at the platform of your conscience: type somewhere and vote, not on the basis of political relations of alliance or divergence, but on the basis of constitutional law No. 1 of 1989, according to Article 96 of the Constitution, based on the truth of the facts and on the action of government, which Count and Salvini - but also Benassi, Massaro and Belloni - have carried out. This must be dealt with by the Senate, even before the court. This is the truth of the facts, the rest is theatrical politics. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of January, Senator Salvini sent the Junta a document explaining in detail why it should not be tried. However, at the end of his work in Giunta, one week after the elections in Emilia-Romagna, he asked his parliamentarians to send him to trial. This is the case at the meeting on 20 January when the Senators of the League voted against the report by President Gasparri, who instead concluded to deny permission to proceed for the former Minister Salvini. Today, therefore, pursuant to article 135- bis of the Rules of the Senate, the former Minister Salvini confirms the authorization to proceed, with a behavior therefore schizophrenic, that highlights the propaganda use and for biech party interests carried out in the institutions and aimed only and exclusively to raise the level of electoral consent, in the then imminent electoral campaign in Emilia-Romagna. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I must say that the effort did not pay and did not get the result. Then one cannot help but remember the same methods, which are quite questionable for what will be said below, with which in Junta the case was educated. It is enough to think of what has happened with regard to the requests for proof of integration made by the majority parties: these are as many as six requests, legitimate and certainly not pretentious or dilatory, aimed in particular at ascertaining whether the health conditions of migrants had worsened or not during the stay on board the ship Gregoretti. Such demands were even backed up by an exponent of the League. However, at a meeting of the Council, despite the fact that the majority had previously reminded the Presidency that two senators, for institutional reasons, would be on a mission the following week and, therefore, would have been unable to participate in the debate and also in the vote, the Presidency would unanimously put one of these requests to the vote. Well, the aforementioned instance was also rejected by the vote of the President of the Junta, who, by giving up his role as third and impartial referee, suddenly became a player of a team, voting with the Right Center. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For all these reasons, the majority senators definitively abandoned the work of the Junta. But that's not all. On 17 January, on the same day as the expiry of the time limit to decide in Junta on the Gregoretti case, in the Junta for the Rules of Procedure, by the approval of an agenda presented by the oppositions that took place with the decisive vote of the Senate presidency itself, it was decided to derogate from the decision taken only half an hour before about the peremptority of the deadline and to vote on the Gregoretti case on 20. Again the institutions, from third and impartial bodies, became players of a part, always the right centre. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Turning to the final act, on 20 January in the Junta, the majority, outraged at all that happened and considering the procedure deeply polluted by party games, did not appear; moreover, the request for refusal of the authorization to proceed presented by the President (thus voted peremptory already expired) had obtained the equality of votes in favour and against, and this involved the automatic acceptance of the authorization to proceed against the former minister Salvini. Today, in its report to the House, the League confirms this conclusion, accepting that Salvini is being tried, as is right and as happens to a common citizen, and it is there that it will be able to demonstrate all its innocence with regard to the facts at issue. On the other hand, with regard to the substance and agenda that should be presented at the end of this debate, there is insufficient evidence from the papers to be able to apply in this case the principle of Article 96 of the Constitution and Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989, as the veto on the release of the POS by the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration, headed by the Ministry of the Interior, by Salvini, appears arbitrary and dictated by a personal political conviction unfit to justify the application in the species of the criminal of the pursuit of the pre-eminent public interest: a real abuse of an administrative power. In fact, Salvini, convinced himself and again that he had to put pressure on Europe for the application of the mechanism of the redistribution of migrants, forced his hand by effectively preventing the landing of sick, exhausted and traumatized shipwrecks, for days and without any safety reasons. Hence the difference with the case Diciotti: people suffering from scabies, tuberculosis and boiled cellulite, left under the burning sun for five days, in a few meters and with only one bath available. Let us also remember that in the case of Diciotti, the blockade of the landing had been determined by an international conflict with Malta, which did not exist in the Gregoretti case, where the so-called search and rescue area (SAR) had been well determined from the beginning, with all the relief operations carried out by the Italian State from the beginning to the end, therefore with the necessary identification of the POS by the Italian State and the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, while in the case of Diciotti, the persons detained on board did not suffer any injury to their fundamental rights, in this case, in the balance of constitutional interests, Salvini's political conviction (which is different from the political act) regarding the management of the migratory flows pre-eminent with respect to the fundamental right to health and human dignity of migrants cannot be considered. Finally, we must reject what the League said today about the existence of the involvement and responsibility of the entire Executive in the decision taken personally by Minister Salvini. And indeed, the government line only and exclusively adhered to the management of migratory flows, in compliance with the principles of solidarity and sharing among the countries of the European Union. No line of action on landings is apparent from the Commission. The League willingly wants to confuse the two plans; one thing is the landing and another is the mechanism of redistribution of migrants that, for a whole year, from the Diciotti case to the Gregoretti case, had been the subject of deep and careful negotiations, so much so that it was confirmed in the following months at the meeting in Malta in October. Therefore, the Presidency of the Council could never have dictated a political line on landing yes or no; it was not even within its competence. In this respect, the international order is sovereign, which has regulated with all the regulatory references widely recalled by the court (Convention Safety of life at sea (SOLAS), Hamburg Convention called SAR, single text on immigration, security decrees one and two). These are all rules that former Minister Salvini had to respect and apply. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The individual State cannot fail to observe these obligations, which are borne by all the Member States of the European Union, such as the primary one to save lives at sea, but also the secondary one to provide a safe place or to ensure that this is provided. The redistribution procedures were already under way and let's remember that, since July 26, as many as four countries of the European Union had already given the consent to Italy for the placement of migrants on the ship Gregoretti. Well, these redistributions could not have prevented any immediate and safe landing. The landing was an urgent and necessary event in the case of Gregoretti and, therefore, it could be done. Nor does it prove the government's silence about the Minister's actions to the contrary. This behaviour has no legal value. The silence and absence of a Council of Ministers show, on the contrary, that Salvini acted on his own initiative. In fact, we must remember the political climate of that period and the relationship between the Minister and the Government at the end of July 2019 had already deteriorated, as evidenced by the events of a little later, namely the fall of the Government Count I. In fact, the same press that reported daily on the case Gregoretti wrote of a stalemate on Gregoretti because Salvini remained alone and without a bank from Count and Mattarella. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u50	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u51	Mr President, first of all let me make a visual comment: if there is someone in this House who is running away today, is afraid and is absent, it is not among the benches of the League, but it is among the benches of the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u52	I don't need to be encouraged. Let me talk: the government wasn't supposed to be here. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]] There's no typhoseries. [[Senator La Russa's comments.]] Please, Senator Salvini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u53	I think that for Italians, beyond so many words, this image says everything: it is the difference between those who have a dirty conscience and those who have nothing to hide. [[Protests from M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u54	Please, everyone was able to speak; there was no dispute. Let Salvini say what he has to say. We've all respected everyone, so please, just a moment of silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u55	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I understand the nervousness of those who climb on mirrors, but let's try to intervene. LANZI (M5S). You're never in here! Cut it out! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). If I had to reason for opportunism, personal interest or personal convenience, I would not have made the decision I made. Here we are talking about a trial, not a walk, and I am ready to face it and say what I say - I will speak on the legal level and then on the political and human plans - out of respect for the office that I had the honour of covering, the Italians and my two children who go to school [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] and who have the right to believe that their father is often far from home, not because he spends time seizing human beings, but because defending the borders and security of his country was his particular duty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] It wasn't his right. It was his duty. The oath taken by the Ministers reads as follows: I swear to be faithful to the Republic, to loyally observe its Constitution and laws and to exercise my functions in the exclusive interest of the nation. Article 52 of the Constitution recalls, then, that the defense of the Homeland is the sacred duty of the citizen. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] I think I have defended my country: I do not ask for a prize, because I had the salary paid for it, but if there must be a trial, that there is, also because in that court I will not go to defend myself; I will go to claim with pride everything that not alone but collegially we have done. I will proudly claim that I have defended my Italy by knocking down a villa confiscated from Casamonica at the gates of Rome. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Protests from M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups.]] There are people here who chat about the mob but then they run away when they have to intervene harshly against the mob! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] Here's the antimafia of chatterers, olé! Then Casamonica's death threats did not arrive there, they arrived here; but it was a job risk. MIRABELLI (PD). What did you do? Tell us what you did! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I have had this House proudly approve the security decrees that now some people want to delete since they have not read them, because the issue of immigration in those measures is one fifth of the text. I'm waiting for you to bring the cancellation of the security decrees to the House because I want to see your face when you take away money and powers from the mayors and cops of this country, when you cut the power of the Agency for the administration and the destination of property confiscated from the mafia, the camorrah and the 'ndrangheta. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] Then, for God's sake, you never stop learning. I proudly claim to have done what the Italians had forgotten, that is to say to keep an electoral promise. Anyone in Italy - I can be funny or disliked - knew and knows that voting for the League, voting for Salvini, would do anything to stop the landings of illegal immigrants, to fight boatmen, traffickers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] We have never made it mystery and I am happy because we did it together with the friends of Movimento 5 Stars for more than a year. I remember the statements of those days, which will then be discussed in classrooms where there will be a third and impartial judge, because I am proud of the work of 99 percent of Italian magistrates who do their work freely, without bringing politics to court. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As I said to some distracted former ally, the statements of Toninelli, Bonafede and Di Maio are July 28, 30 and 31. The latest statements by Toninelli, Bonafede and Di Maio, according to which the European Union had to be involved, are from the day of the landing. So, either they were there and they agreed, or they were there and they didn't understand (and it would be even more serious if one is in the Ministry and doesn't understand what he's doing). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] On the legal level, Giulia Bongiorno is right, but I must disobey her because they are big. I am tired of engaging this Assembly with Diciotti, Gregoretti, Open arms and Carola (then they will arrive I don't know how many others). I find the matter so clear that I regret that this important House is wasting so much time chasing and pursuing Salvini. Let's clear it up once and for all in front of a judge. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Let's make it clear if I have done my duty, or if, getting up in the morning in the absence of other occupations, I said: today what ship block? Moreover, I would also be a very bizarre kidnapper, because these immigrants went to get them - and I have arranged it - in Maltese and non-Italian waters. The Maltese government called us and said: we can't do everything ourselves, we're overburdened and we don't know where to put them anymore; Isn't that your job, helping us save these lives? Matteo Salvini said yes and we went to Maltese SAR waters to recover these immigrants. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] We could've fooled each other, but we couldn't. We did it very simply, as we did with the Aquarius and Ocean Viking and as it is doing in this period exactly the absent Minister Lamorgese, who on more than one occasion lasted for three, four, five, ten days the landing waiting for the relocations. The difference between us and you is that I do not denounce Minister Lamorgese because he is doing his job, quite simply. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] It is an anthropological difference - let me say - cultural, education and style. Perhaps there will be some association that will do so, because this investigation starts from an exposed denunciation of Legambiente Sicilia. We are here in this House debating a complaint by Legambiente Sicilia. So, Matteo Salvini certainly is not, but if there is a voluntary association in Italy that will think that the current Government and its majority are acting exactly the same way, alas for you we will find ourselves in this House trying some members of the current Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I don't have this urge, this rush. In democracy the adversaries fight at the polls, not in the courtrooms: this teaches the history of this country and its democracy. That's the way it should be. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). More, I am here and I want to go to trial to tell the world and my children that these immigration policies shared by the League and the Movimento 5 Stars have saved tens of thousands of lives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In fact, the numbers say that during the Governments of the supposed good (open doors and open doors), the Mediterranean has turned into an open-air common grave with 15,000 corpses in three years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] This is the result of the goodness of those giving us lessons of goodness: 15,000 corpses in three years. That's a lot of 15,000 corpses, put them in line one after the other. We've gone from 15,000 to 2,000. Always 2,000 too many, but I claim with pride, and I want to shout it to the world, that policies of control and rigour have saved thousands of lives. It may be uncomfortable to say, but this is the data. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Carlo Nordio spoke, not about a legal decision, but about a political process. I don't get that far. It is that there is a risk of creating a dangerous precedent. I am fully aware of this and apologise to those who come after me. God forbid it will be in the benches of the present majority and, in a few months or a few years, it will say: damn, we have voted a political judgment regardless of the merit and now the wheel turns and it's up to us. I never thought I'd share a speech by Mr Casini. I shared, line by line, the intervention of Senator Pier Ferdinando Casini, from which I separate many battles and to which, however, I recognize freedom of thought. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] I am sure that, if each of you here today wanted, should and could vote on the basis of what you have read, what has happened and what is happening, the sitting would already be over. Unfortunately, however, we are still fighting for factions. Need a guinea pig? Here I am. My only concern isn't for me. My shoulders are wide. If I wanted to do something more comfortable, I wouldn't have been the Interior Minister for the League. I'm sorry about my kids, who are gonna read in the paper tomorrow... [[Live comments from M5S and PD Groups]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Quiet! [[Comments of Senators Mirabelli and Pilgrims Marco.]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, what patience. Probably, the mutterer doesn't have a son who, before going to school this morning, sent the message: "Forza Daddy." [[Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco.]] VOICES FROM THE GROUP L-SP-PSd'Az. Shame on you! Shame on you! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). She's gonna shut up! Shut up! Out of respect for my son, not me! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Group Senators L-SP-PSd'Az applaud standing]] We make politics; we have chosen it. Those who are at home did not choose to have a political dad who will be in the newspapers tomorrow as a criminal and a kidnapper of people. So, if you don't show up to me, bring in respect of two boys who go to school and who are not guilty of any mistakes their father may have made, who are convinced they haven't made mistakes and who are proud of what he has done, for his country, for his children and for the children of this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] Oh, my goodness! Good thing it says democratically in the name of the party. You have nothing as a Democrat, my friends, but the adjective in the name of the party. I'm not looking for revenge. I don't want to delete anyone. Delete. I remember the title of an important newspaper, a few weeks ago, on the whole page: delete Salvini. And I remember my daughter calling me at night and telling me... [[Live comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] MIRABELLI (PD). But leave the children alone! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am about to lose my patience. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please let Senator Salvini finish. [[Comments of Senator Evangelista.]] BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shut up! Shut up! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). And I said, no, they were joking. Mirta, no one wants to erase Dad. You've got your dad. Journalists were joking. It's a newspaper of pranksters, making headlines a little exaggerated. It's a title I never thought I could read in life. If it had been written about "Free", "The Truth" or "The Journal", the UN blue helmets would have arrived in that editorial staff to take that director or journalist away. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] But I'm proud to be different. Full of defects, for God's sake, but among the defects there is not to be afraid. If I had stolen something, I'd be scared. If I'd bribed someone, I'd be scared. If I'd been doomed, mugged, raped, raped, handcuffed, I'd be scared. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Citophonized. [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm not afraid. Can I say that I pity those who laugh at a time like this? Can I say that I really feel sorry for you? I really feel sorry for you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] The battle is sacrosanct not to re-introduce the vitality and I cannot stand that there is someone who, in a few weeks of time in Parliament, brings home a vitality, but it is equally disrespectful to the Italian people to bring home a salary remaining tied to the chair without making a accident from morning to evening. It's just as stolen a salary. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Comments from M5S, PD and Senator Errani Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u56	No one in this House has been interrupted. There has been up to this moment respect for the opinion of all. So respect everyone's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u57	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). President, you told us we didn't do anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There was no interruption. It's a concept that applies to everyone. Please, Senator Salvini. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). He's the one who doesn't do anything. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). This House is strange. I'm supposed to be nervous, but I see nervous people on the other side. This is a strange Assembly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] It's okay. Someone who gave his life for this country remembered that "he who is afraid dies every day, he who is not afraid dies only once." Maybe I'll make a mistake, 10 times a day, I'm a man with some value and a lot of flaws. The Minister did it in the interest of my country, then he may or may not like it, but according to the data there are some millions of Italians who support me. And when I say "Italian" I also remember the woman I met last week in Palermo, Nigeria, who presides over a voluntary association that fights against the exploitation of prostitution, who thanked those who reduced the landings, because he saved so many women from the street and prostitution in this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] So when I speak of Italians, I also speak of the millions of immigrants regularly present in Italy, who have arrived with the documents in order, who pay taxes, who send their children to school and bring respect, who are my sisters and my brothers and have the right to be defended in their rights, without being associated with the chaos that distinguishes some suburbs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] That's the reasoning. We could have looked for random numbers, a compact centreright, because President Gasparri has done a fine job, but recognizing the reality of the facts, today, asking my Group to go against what logic wants, I also force the historical truth. And Mr Bongiorno is right, but they are big and I want someone to clarify once and for all whether to defend Italy, the honour, dignity and security of Italy is the duty of a politician, or a crime that deserves up to fifteen years in prison. I want someone to put an end to this surreal debate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] With the splits in the Government, the prescription and the borders, this Government, which is held together by fear - yes - of the vote, applies the postponement; but the postponement is deleterious. I appeal to you: choose something from time to time, yes or no. Do not choose on the MES, on the prescription, on the revocation of the concession to Motorways; you are holding down 13 billion euros of investments on the Italian motorways, for your not choice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] You're seizing the Genoese. This is kidnapping in person. You're seizing the Genoese and Ligurians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] There's the Grunda standing still, because you don't take responsibility for choosing. If you have to revoke, revoke; if you have to extend, extend, but do something. They pay you to do. They pay you to decide, not to postpone. Do something, please. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] If we agree we will vote in favour and if we do not agree we will vote against, but decide, on Ilva, on Alitalia; decide something. You've been fighting about everything for six months, except that Salvini is ugly and bad. I want to go to a courtroom, counting on the independence of the judiciary, and then be able to introduce myself to the voters with a high head and resume this country by the hand, free from the burden of suspicion, evil, racism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Also because, if we were wrong, we would find the gabola. In Italy, you know, the law is the same for everyone, yes, almost. We don't look for owls, we don't look for shortcuts. There is that word that remembers some colleagues; sometimes it is the word that makes the difference. In this case, three letters make the difference: "Then" is "then." The President-in-Office of the Council, the Head of Government, the Supreme Authority, who could have stopped a dangerous criminal, said that first immigrants should be relocated on board the ships and then landed: I will not call anyone as I run, but I think that in that court someone will be called to respond to what he did and did not do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] I will not ask, because there are some millions of real trials in retrospect, with some millions of real Italians waiting for justice. But since my grandmother taught me that hurt not to do, fear not to have, let's go and engage that court by relying on impartiality. Luckily, he's changed a lot over the years. In these days I have received many messages, which remain for me, of magistrates, judges, pm, lawyers who have asked me to help them finally, in a shared way, to a reform of serious justice, which is fundamental for this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] And that this quarrelsome majority will hardly be able to bring in dowry to the Italians. Just look: by now we are almost to the threats between PD, Italy Viva and 5 Stars. We are at a level of violence, for now verbal, what more than kidnapping! That's the reasoning. This Wednesday this House could have dealt with something else. I hope it's not a precedent. I keep asking my parliamentary group to disobey what all the lawyers are asking of me. I have a word and a face. Let a judge decide whether I defended my country or whether I'm a criminal. Let us get out of this House and let a judge decide it, so that no one can then cling to it to cover his internal problems. This is the evidence: the king is naked! You can go on a few weeks, a few months, a few years, but then judgment in democracy does not give a judge, the people give it. I await the day when 60 million Italians will be able to judge what we have done, what we have achieved; I am proud to claim that I have closed down crime centers that cost hundreds of millions of euros to Italian taxpayers: Mineo, Cona, Bagnoli, the eviction of the former Olympic Village of Turin, Borgo Mezzanone, San Ferdinando. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] That's what we did. So the evidence would like us to vote for Parliament, of course, to protect its prerogatives. I am fully aware that in the past when Parliament took a step backwards, others have taken three steps forward, however, allow me, in addition to political and legal assessments, sometimes to assert human and personal motivations. I can no longer be a criminal when I defended the honor, security and borders of my country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] There's a limit to everything. I listened to some climbing surgery; for God's sake, it's okay. So, Mr President, I thank you, I thank the speakers, even those who have said things very far from my thinking and from my action. I have no enemies in this House and in this country; I have opponents, I have different ideas and I am afraid not for myself, but for the new generations who, even in this House, brings words of anger and resentment. Anger and resentment should be removed from political controversy. I appeal to everyone: let us share on the issues, but let us not joke about some fundamental values. Let us not joke because - I repeat - those who today are majority and feel unpunished, tomorrow could be minority and will have in me a defender of its prerogatives and its freedom of political action. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]] I'll never want a judge to come in here and judge a political act. The ministers before me have done things completely different from mine, but has anyone ever denounced them? Has anyone ever appealed to a judge outside the Chamber? That's the difference and so, go as it goes, the numbers are clear and obvious. There is a majority composed of the Democratic Party, Italy Viva and the Movimento 5 Stars who believe that I should be tried. MIRABELLI (PD). There's also Misto-Leu. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Sorry, I forgot Free and Equal. I was not in bad faith, on the contrary, I acknowledge to Minister Hope a courage that other of his colleagues are not having at this time, because we got the insult of being jackals for a week, our governors who asked for controls of the children who go to school, they felt to be racists for a week and, fortunately, Minister Hope made it clear that the health of our children comes before any political calculation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] There's someone in the government who remembers there's a country to defend. So thank you to those who reminded me of the LEU Group. I will finish; of course I would like to occupy my time at other times. Yesterday I spent it reading documents. There is someone who has lost before me I do not know how many months to read acts, documents, interceptions and transcriptions; I was not accustomed honestly. I have to thank the League Senators Group who asked me to reconsider until a second ago. I thank you politically and humanly. But we don't change, straight; we don't have anything to be afraid of, guys, we go straight: bad don't do, fear don't have. Let us put an end to this obvious political aggression that has not come from the judiciary. I read and reread the device of the court in Catania. The court of Catania, which investigated on Legambiente's exhibit, ends pages and pages of device with these three lines: In conclusion, therefore, in the opinion of this prosecutor, in the absence of the objective and subjective presuppositions in this case, neither of the crime referred to in Article 605 of the penal code, nor of any other crime, it must be proposed to dismiss it. I am convinced that this will be the end of this affair and I am convinced that those who today will vote to win will eventually be defeated by history, truth and historical reality. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] I close with the words, which reminded me of a friend, of a great Italian, Indro Montanelli. [[Comments]] I'm proud to be different. The only advice he gave was the following: boys, fight for what you believe in, maybe you will lose, like me, many battles, but you will win the one that engages each morning, in front of the mirror. With a high head: live Italy, live freedom, live democracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Congratulations very much.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u58	The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in her reply. I note that from the prescribed number of senators the agenda G1 was presented, signed by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and others, in contrast to the conclusions of the Junta, with which it is proposed to refuse the authorisation to proceed to trial against Senator Matteo Salvini, whose text is being distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u61	[[Brusio]] CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, but I ask you to be able to start when there is a little more order in this House, otherwise I think it is pointless to talk to myself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, colleagues, Senator Cucca is speaking. [[Brusio]] CROATTI (M5S). (Indicating the benches of the Group L-SP-PSd'Az). When he talks, we all have to shut up! CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Senators, once again we are here, after the sitting of 20 March 2019, to discuss a matter relating to the landing of a number of people, or rather shipwrecked, from the ship that had picked them up from the sea. Many people this morning called back the story that we had already examined on March 20 last year and said that the story related to the Diciotti case... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I am not speaking in this way. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]] If that's the case, I'll deposit the surgery and we won't talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u62	I ask for a moment of courtesy from everyone. Senator Cucca would like to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u63	Please, Senator Cucca. CUCCA (IV-PSI). Thank you, President. I was saying, many people this morning have recalled the story that we had examined on 20 March 2019 concerning the ship Diciotti, stating that they are similar cases, therefore one should act accordingly rejecting the request for authorization. This is not the case, and it is not the case, for example, also because in this case - as Senator Salvini did well to recall - the public prosecutor had requested to dismiss it. However - lively god - it is omitted to consider that it is the court that must evaluate: the prosecutor, as always happens in all events where there is an open criminal procedure, and then the court - in this case, in the ordinary court does so the judge for preliminary investigations - can quietly request the continuation of the trial, as happened by the court, who asked permission to proceed. This has nothing to do with the filing request. I do not intend to deal with the matter from a technical point of view, because many people have already spoken about it and discussed it in detail this morning. It has already been said - and this is the cornerstone of my reasoning - that here we must limit ourselves to determining whether at the time the conditions for the protection of that particular interest of the State existed and therefore whether or not this interest was prominent in relation to the individual rights that were sacrificed or assumed to have been sacrificed, in the context of the matter under consideration in order to know whether or not the existing legislation exists. In this context, there is an extremely clear fact: in the case we are dealing with there are those who are missing in the examination of the Diciotti case... (Senator Pellegrini Marco animatedly discusses in the hemicycle with some Senators of the Group L-SP-PSd'Az). MIRABELLI (PD). President, look! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd like to hear Senator Cucca's intervention, so I would ask you to sit in your place. Anyone who wants to get out of the Chamber, do it. I would like to have a moment of peace and the opportunity to listen to Senator Cucca's speech in an explanation of vote on an important subject. CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I understand the state of mind of many of my fellow Members in this House, but I believe that it is very difficult, if not impossible, to make a speech on a situation which is very delicate, even for the issues raised by Senator Salvini himself. I was saying that a difference jumps in the eye in an obvious way. In this case, there is indeed a lack of what I myself described as procedural adjustments in relation to the Diciotti case, and this is something that I have borrowed from the courtrooms. I refer, in particular, to the letters received by the President of the Council and the Ministers, Mr Di Maio and Mr Toninelli, to the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. There have been no such speeches in this matter, and this is no small circumstance for a proper assessment of the matter from the point of view of its occupation and must occupy this House, which - I still remember - is not to establish the responsibility of Mr Salvini for the case of the Gregoretti ship. We simply have to establish, as has been said, whether conditions exist for the protection of a particular interest which is prominent in relation to the rights which have been sacrificed. So we are not interested in the merit of responsibility; indeed, we all wish - and I believe we do so chorically - that in this matter, where the agenda is rejected, Minister Salvini can clarify before the judges - who, it is not a case, have requested authorisation and therefore intend to proceed and will see to establish - whether responsibility exists or not. We are therefore not interested in the substance of the crimes that have been contested, we are merely making the determination that I have just mentioned. Someone said this morning that this House is in fact a judge and that is true. The double colleague, Mrs Bongiorno, said a great truth: she is a judge. Our judgment, however, is limited to the aspects I have mentioned and we must not go any further, nor do I intend to go any further. In carrying out this task, however, we cannot fail to consider at that particular moment what was the prime interest of the State, which obviously may not also coincide with the personal opinion of this or that Minister, having to refer exclusively to the address of the Government in its entirety on a particular matter. (14.15) (Followed by Mr Cucca) This must be noted in the assessment of the Minister's political act: was the blocking of the landing of passengers from the Gregoretti ship an act dictated by the need to protect a pre-eminent interest of the State, in line with the government line or was it an act based on a personal opinion in line with the political line of a party, not shared, nor in line with the government line? In the story Gregoretti there is no trace of a sharing of acts, all assumed in total autonomy by Minister Salvini, nor has there been any posthumous sharing of the Government of which the senator was authoritative member. On the other hand, in this regard it is also useful to recall that President Conte, about a month earlier, by measure taken personally and by authority, had authorized the landing of immigrants by a ship. It was once again about the Diciotti ship, but not about the case we dealt with. And I think I also note very much the fact that on that occasion Minister Salvini had made public his political dissent with respect to the intervention of authority of President Conte who - it seems plionistic to remember - is the one who represents the political line of the government that he presided, in its entirety. These circumstances make it clear that in today's affairs, Minister Salvini acted in total loneliness, in compliance not with the line of government, but with the political line of his and his party, which, moreover, coincide perfectly, ignoring the line previously indicated by the President of the Council, who represented and always represents the line of the Government itself. In addition, there is no evidence in this case that there had been prior verbal consultation, as had been the case in the Diciotti affair, or subsequent ratification. Nor can we forget - I think it is extremely important for the assessment of the political act, not of the affair related to the crimes contested - that the logistical conditions in which the shipwrecked on the ship Gregoretti, a small boat not equipped neither for the rescue of the people, nor especially for the permanence on board of a multitude of people. Add to this that, on that ship, the shipwrecked were in very precarious hygienic and sanitary conditions, with the imminent risk of the spread of serious pathologies. These conditions should therefore have imposed the immediate landing of shipwrecks in the identified safe port. In this regard, I have to say that Senator Ginetti had specifically asked for the actual health conditions to be clarified, and this was the investigative activity - but I will return shortly to this fact - that would allow a better and more correct evaluation of the whole matter. I believe, however, that I also have the duty to recall the ways in which the work was carried out in the Council of Immunity, in order to emphasize that Senator Ginetti before and Senator Bonifazi after and to follow other members of the Junta, of other political groups, had proposed requests for inquiry, based on the need to deepen some issues that, depending on the outcome, would have given the full picture of the real situation that had occurred at the time when the landing was planned, but above all could have even justified the reasons for that blockade and the solitary decision taken by the then Minister Salvini. These requests, however, were inopportunely rejected by the Junta, with a vote taken when two members of the majority were missing, on leave for a mission of the Anti-Mafia Commission, revealing an unusual haste in taking the final decision, culminated with the affirmation of the peremptority of the terms for the final decision, never applied by the Senate before that time (being part of the Junta even in the last legislature, I would like to remind you that in the past legislature similar cases have come to definition sometimes after seven months and other times after more than a year). Except then, immediately after, to make those terms, declared peremptori, "almost peremptori" - we have thus introduced a new legal figure - since it was authorized to take the final decision after the expiry of the terms just declared peremptori. All of this, as Mr Evangelista has already said, is evident in his understanding of exploiting the matter in electoral terms, given the imminence of the date of an important vote, which then took place. Having said all this and made it clear, there is no doubt that the judiciary should be allowed to judge. The fact is simple: a number of people, shipwrecked, who were entitled to protection, had been saved by a military ship, with an operation that has been called all Italian. In compliance with national and international regulations, they should have been disembarked immediately in the port identified as safe, then subject to all the compliances previewed from the norms. In this context, then Minister Salvini, probably with the intention of putting pressure on Europe to deal with immigration matters and to obtain the distribution of immigrants in European countries, by means of his own act, prohibited the landing of shipwrecked people, depriving them of their personal freedom, preventing their free movement on the territory of the State, on which they already were, being on a military ship. President. - I invite you to conclude, Senator Cucca. CUCCA (IV-PSI). I'm finishing. This act had been taken in full autonomy, as mentioned, and without any prior consultation with the Government. This does not mean, however, that, if the agenda is rejected, the criminal responsibility of Mr Salvini is recognised. This assessment is for the judicial authority... PRESIDENT.Senator Cucca, I have to take your word for it. CUCCA (IV-PSI). I checked the time left. Did you check it out? Okay. He's got two eyes in his back. CUCCA (IV-PSI). I've got the watch in front of me. FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, you have been interrupted three times. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. CUCCA (IV-PSI). This determination, as stated above, is the responsibility of the judicial authority, which will appreciate the terms of the case and will also appreciate the reasonings that Senator Salvini has set out here this morning, whether they are acceptable or not. It is therefore welcome that former Minister Salvini wanted to ask to submit to the judgment, although I think it would have been more correct to assume it even when he had a different protection. It would have been correct, in compliance with those rules that you begged this morning... president. You have to finish, Senator Cucca. CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, if you keep interrupting me, I cannot finish. Be patient! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The fact is that you have the written intervention, but you also have to learn how to synthesize. CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I come back to saying that I have been interrupted three times. PRESIDENT. - I have calculated it and I assure you that it is abundantly outside. He's already had three more minutes. Please finish. CUCCA (IV-PSI). So he should have submitted himself, with the same availability, to the judgment for the Diciotti case. We probably would've done the right thing. For these reasons, the Italia Viva Group will vote against the proposed agenda, instead considering that it is right and proper to grant permission to submit Minister Salvini to the judiciary, which will assess whether or not criminal responsibilities exist. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u64	My colleague, I also have all the respect for written speeches, but this cannot allow, when the time is over, to conclude the intervention as you have arranged it. If you set him up for a longer time, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u65	FARAONE (IV-PSI). You're a master! PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Am I a teacher? Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u68	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the Brothers of Italy Group understands the reasons for Senator Salvini's request, it cannot be answered, because we are convinced that today, here, we are not discussing the political destiny of a still very important leader, but we are discussing a principle, and the principle is also superior to the request of the same person, who does not have the availability of it: here it is a question of deciding whether there was or was not a preeminent national interest in the action of a Minister of the Republic. [[Applause from the FdI Group and the Senators Alderisi and Iwobi]] This is the point and on it Brothers of Italy can only remain consistent according to those principles set forth by our leader Giorgia Meloni, who is present today in the gallery and whom I thank for being here to witness the importance of this day. We can only be faithful to our principles and therefore cannot fulfill the request of former minister Salvini. In fact, the same court in Catania, in the conclusions of its request for authorization to proceed, refers to the exclusive competence of the Senate - I stress exclusive - to judge whether or not the interest exists. If we deny that interest today, the ordinary judiciary will take it as an acquired fact that is no longer questionable. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] That's the point. Ladies and gentlemen, today many on the left have climbed on mirrors to show that the Gregoretti case is different from that of the Diciotti ship, but in all their exhibitions they have only referred to factual elements, to factual circumstances that may have some relevance in the process, but they are of no importance here. From the point of view that we are judging, the cases are absolutely identical: if there was national interest, the higher public interest in the Diciotti case, well that interest is also in the Gregoretti case. So much so that we are on the paradox, so the Democratic Party justifies its vote by saying that essentially cases are similar if not identical and therefore, having then voted in one way, today votes in the same way and the 5 Stars, instead, justify their vote with the opposite argument, that is, saying that today they vote differently because cases are radically different. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] If I weren't in the Senate, I'd ask if we weren't in the broadcast, but if I listened to the arguments of the two main majority groups, if I hadn't read what was in President Gasparri's report. But when Minister Bonafede, head of the 5 Star Ministers' delegation in this Government, said on July 30 that those who had to get off had come down, in Italian does that mean that those who remained on board had to stay there, or do you have another explanation to give me? If logic is not optional, I think this is out of the question. I must also say to my colleagues in the Democratic Party that their coherence has stopped in front of the Emilia-Romagna election campaign, because today they say that Minister Salvini has committed a crime, but also Minister Lamorgese has left the ship Ocean Viking in the middle of the sea for four days and that is legitimate [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is the humiliation which you, with your speeches today, have reduced the Senate Assembly. As I said, we can only vote in favour of the agenda, which, moreover, the Brothers of Italy Group has signed unanimously, because in this case we must defend the principle that the borders of the State must be defended, that the invasion must be stopped, that there is no right to enter indiscriminately in Italy and in Europe. Someone in the majority, speaking today, almost made me think that he exchanged migrants with tourists, because he even wondered if we were sure that these migrants had no right to enter Italy: already, because a migrant, instead of taking the plane from Tunisia or Algeria and spending 150 euros, spends 3,000 of them, gives them to a scafist and risks life too! [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Iwobi]] There is no right to enter Italy: this is the principle that we want to affirm with our vote. And if a rebuke is to be made to Minister Salvini for the period in which he has been to the Government, this rebuke is that he had to go all the way and implement that naval blockade that Brothers of Italy has been asking for since the beginning of the legislature. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u71	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has taken on certain aspects of the surreal features, as has the surreality of the Gregoretti case in the Junta. Reasons unrelated to the merit of the request for permission to proceed have intervened and have increased the confusion and noise on a story that, in other respects, seems very clear: it has been prevented for a time appreciable to a ship of the Coast Guard, an Italian military ship, in the context of an event SAR coordinated by the Italian authorities, to reach a place where to land the shipwrecks. This was prevented - I repeat: for an appreciable time - by the then Minister for the Interior. (14.31) (Following Grasso). This, with brutal synthesis, is the issue. As senators we are called to decide whether or not to subtract a member of the Government from the judgment of the judiciary - let us be careful that we are speaking, we repeat it, of judgment and not of condemnation - reasoning exclusively on two points, that is, whether Senator Matteo Salvini has been concerned to pursue the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of a function of Government. With the adjectives "relevant" and "preminent" the constitutional legislator seems to suggest that the balance of the values at stake should be resolved in favour of the protection of the highest values of the Republic. Once again, aware of the future consequences, do we have to ask ourselves what are the highest values of the Constitutional Charter if not the recognition and guarantee of human inviolable rights such as life, health, freedom and human dignity? To overturn the order by giving priority to other interests, whatever they may be, in relation to the protection of the inviolable rights of man would be to admit a new and dangerous conception of the reason of state. It is important to illuminate an aspect that remains in the background for legal reasons in the court's request and is the issue of security decree bis. While the Gregoretti affair was being consumed, the decree was in force with rules that Salvini literally sewn himself on. This is an abnormal measure which greatly extends the powers of the Minister of the Interior and on which - I remind myself and the majority of whom I belong - we were expressed for its complete unconstitutionality and on which it is urgent to intervene today, in order to correct the many and too many aspects that have nothing to do with security and much with propaganda. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] In having the power to block the ships Senator Salvini has, in fact, well guarded himself from allowing himself the possibility to block also the military ships. It says, except for military ships. He did it because it would be a blatantly unconstitutional power. Yet, in this case, he has done so. It has gone beyond the limit that he himself had to place himself, de facto preventing the military ship from carrying out rescue operations at sea with the landing of shipwrecks, as prescribed by international conventions and protocols on the rescue of human lives at sea and the granting of the safe landing place. The Gregoretti case manages to go far beyond the Diciotti case, precisely because if then there was no specific norm - but the judgment could easily derive from norms and treated widely recalled - now there is a norm and it is the same subject that first wrote it and then ignored it. There is a given context that should not be underestimated. Those abominable and contradictory decisions were made in the days we might define as those of the Papeete's drunkenness. While the Senate, to which Salvini belongs, was engaged in the discussion and vote on important measures, the Minister enjoyed that week of seaside holidays of which the media told us everything, even the most personal aspects. From the beaches of Milano Marittima it was the same Senator Salvini who declared, to take the merit alone (if so can be said of the blockade of the military ship Gregoretti), to the "Corriere della Sera" of July 27, 2019: I have given provision that no port is assigned before there is on paper a redistribution of migrants on board throughout Europe. Already the article indicated that one could not, even with the norms of decree-law security bis, treat a military ship in Italian territory as if it were a boat of non-governmental organizations (the subject on which, among other things, we will soon be called to express ourselves about the new request on the Open arms case). Another point of novelty today was the phantom authorization to rescue by Minister Salvini in Maltese areas. No international convention, no rule, of course, speaks of bailout authorization, for the simple reason that there is a duty to bailout that does not need any authorization, much less from the Minister of the Interior. If, on the other hand, we want to refer to the coordination of rescue operations, this is the responsibility of the National Centre for the Coordination of Marine Relief of the Coast Guard, which, as you know, refers to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and fortunately must not ask for any authorization before saving someone. In short, there are all the elements of merit and context to bring each senator to vote in accordance with the decision of the Junta, that is, to grant authorization to proceed. It is clear to everyone that fundamental rights cannot, must never be compressed for political needs and it is equally clear that it cannot happen again that the Senate, after the Diciotti case, subtracts from the scrutiny of the judiciary a Minister who repeats anti-juridical conduct, offering him a dangerous and unjustified political shield. By voting against the authorization to proceed, therefore, a new, double, serious and dangerous precedent would be created which profoundly undermines the very meaning of our democracy, its complex, but at the same time balanced, system of weights and counterweights, of protecting the inviolable rights of the person. In addition, we do not see, through a parliamentary body, a new and dangerous reason for State which is capable of derogating from inviolable rights. Today's vote in some way can balance the bad decision of a few months ago and defend the institutions, especially for the future, from the risk that with a double precedent the idea that the majority that supports the current Executive, of whatever color is, can confer legitimacy to any action, even the most serious, even the most reckless, of a member of the Government. However, I can only be happy with the decision of former Minister Salvini to submit to the judgment of the Court of Ministers of Catania, whatever the reasons, because it will remain in the proceedings of the Senate, finally, an awareness by a senator representing the nation. In accordance, therefore, with the decision taken by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant permission to proceed with Senator Matteo Salvini, I announce that I am voting against the G1 agenda presented. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u74	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I heard more than one opening speech saying that we are not here to discuss a trial, but then it went on with valuable defensive arguments, also using new institutions for the right, for example with regard to the slowing down of a landing which I do not know whether it alludes to a attenuated or minor seizure. I have heard of no coincidences between landing and the right to rescue, as well as of gradations of limitations on the freedom of persons. I would like to contradict those who have said that we are simply deciding under Article 96 of the Constitution. I don't think that's limited. I think it is a very important function (so nobody takes a step back, but I would say that we do more than one forward) that only we in Parliament and not in the Government (today Parliament is the protagonist) are responsible. I am referring to the question of whether, in this specific case, we are within the boundaries established by the Constitution for political power, which, until we change the Constitutional Charter, is not yet an absolute power. That's the point. So, let's take 18 steps forward. I am surprised that, even from distinguished colleagues with a great parliamentary experience and certainly a great political culture, we simply wanted to distinguish between a private act or a private act and a political act which, in itself, coincides with a preeminent national interest. This is not possible, because the political act (whether of government, collective or individual) justifiable in itself is not allowed. That is the arbitrariness of political power. We haven't given Senator Salvini full powers yet, that's the point. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Nor did your constituents, Senator Salvini, who was present today for part of the sitting, talk about everything and very little about the case in question. I understand that since you have not often had to take advantage of this moment to discuss the various issues that we cannot talk about. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lanzi]] We enter into the facts to judge this point, concerning having prevented the landing that was to be completed according to the international laws to which we are still all bound, the Constitution and the so-called security decree bis, which excludes military ships from certain types of limitations and focuses in the Minister of the Interior all competence. I never considered it relevant whether or not there was a collegial sharing of the government. It is true that, with the decree security bis, Minister Salvini has given himself every competence and it is in fact quite different to talk about the redistribution of migrants (and here we continue to pretend not to understand) with the means to possibly pursue something that was not even in the objectives. In fact, it is common ground that, once they had landed, all necessary checks would have been made that could not have been made on the ship, it would have been redistributed where it had to be done and possibly proceeded to those assisted returns that Salvini was well guarded from acting as Minister of the Interior. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Here we can say that we boast very different numbers. There is no coincidence between supranational interest and being a minister, it has nothing to do with government policy and it has nothing to do with any statements of sharing about redistribution. Here we are talking about whether, as I said, an act of the Government itself coincides with the national interest. There is an idea of absolute state. It seemed to me that we had passed it, even before the Republican Constitution. Today we have learned, in fact, also of the institution of an implicit sharing of the fact that, if I say not, I am also responsible. But I think we're totally off the charts. Let us return to the facts, because we are confronted with them. We are talking about a military corvette, which is already Italian territory. So, let's clear the field from the fake news about Italian borders. We are already on Italian territory. And who would have violated the Italian borders? These are 131 people, some of whom are minors - and I would like to correct Mr Casini here - who have been landed by order of the child prosecutor, not spontaneously. Just as it was landed, on the 31st morning, and not on the 31st afternoon, a person suspected of tuberculosis. We're talking about people who were exposed to at least 35 degrees. The commander of the ship laid out a cloth to repair them from the sun. We're talking about people who used a single bathroom aboard a ship. We are talking about a boat that, every day, saw its commander ask for the indication, stubbornly, of a safe rescue place. We are talking about a medical investigation, with a doctor on board, which denounced the risk of contagion, even for crew members, of cases of scabies, of wounds that were difficult to guarantee in the cure. Yeah, maybe I forgot that the important thing is that there's no danger of life at all. A little graduated suffering, soft, can be tolerated. I forgot that we have an inviolable right mitigated in our Constitution. In fact, various screening and analysis were done for medical inspections. In conclusion, what are we discussing here? We are discussing citizens' freedom. We are discussing the fact that an absolute power has not been handed over. We are discussing, yes, the children of this country, who are the children of our Constitution, are the children of those freedoms conquered, they are those children who believe that the freedom of citizens is inviolable, that the freedom of individuals is always guaranteed, that their integrity is always defended by everyone. And we turn to those citizens. You, Senator Salvini, address the people directly. We turn to the people of the citizens, including their voters, who have not given you this power. We turn to all those citizens who are confident that their personal freedoms, inviolable, will always be defended and respected and not violated by those who have political power. That is why we shall be voting no on the G1 agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Matrisciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u77	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are assuming that the Rules of Procedure are well known. It is clear that today the presence of the members of the Government is not required, but the political significance of the fact that the chairs are all empty is there. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giammanco]] We're here to do politics. So, we know. Among other things, according to Article 64 (4) of the Constitution, the members of the Government have the right to attend meetings even if it is not absolutely required. But the most dramatic thing that has happened on this matter is the fact that Parliament, starting with the Junta, has not really gone to express itself on what it is called to express itself for. The reference is to Article 9 (3) of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, i.e. not to enter into the substance of the crime, but to assess whether or not Minister Salvini has acted clearly for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or for the pursuit of a preeminent political interest in the exercise of the function of the Government. This was to be - as has been pointed out - Parliament's duty to intervene and to evaluate. In fact, everything has turned into the usual fans, which seems almost football, Italian: so fans against Salvini. Even the editor of the daily newspaper "Il Riformista" (The Reformist), Piero Sansonetti, wrote a long time ago that, unfortunately, according to him, it would come to the count of the pro-Salvini and anti-Salvini senators and all this would be an obnoxious. This is the true result of this page of Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Gentlemen, we are well aware that these are political positions - everything has been put into politics from the outset - which sanction the defeat of this Parliament. It has been said before the autonomy of politics fails: that is the real point. The autonomy of the same governmental function is lacking. Tomorrow could happen to any other Minister or President of the Council; we cannot take decisions like this, lightly, but unfortunately this act of grave irresponsibility has been carried out which contributes to the loss of even more credibility - which I would say is already scarce - for our institutions. Among other things, what struck us most in this act of irresponsibility is that it also comes from those who, until recently, called to this House - I have here the shorthand report of 12 December 2019, when we were discussing the debate on the financing of parties - the principles of separation between legislative, executive and judicial powers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Quoting from the shorthand report Senator Renzi's intervention, there is a passage that struck us particularly, because on that occasion he said: I am not in the ethical state of those who want to transform principles of political opportunity into a process. Well, we expected more than that, Senator Renzi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are all here often to say that there is battle, that the problem is judges and justice and many other discussions. No, it is useless; today it is stated and acclaimed that the problem is not the judges, but it is the policy that has decided to abdicate to its role. This process has already begun for years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then we cannot complain if some judge comes or if we say that the powers are in the hands of others and we have so many good discussions. No, we can't do that. Of course, some of you might even say that now we at the League come here to say nice words after it was Salvini himself who basically asked to be tried. Someone has already said that it was Salvini who asked to be tried and then they will settle for it; that it was a political mistake and they will defeat him in the political battle. I'm telling you, you don't have to make fun of Italians. Let's be clear. Someone's talking about political error, and I've heard other things from someone else. What Matteo Salvini did, in addition to being an act of courage, is a little expression of his character: do you remember that, on the Diciotti case, he initially intervened saying that he was not afraid and wanted to clarify before the judges that what he was doing was doing in the interest of the country? The position that the League has taken in the Junta is also the daughter of an act of irresponsibility by the yellow-red majority, which it had decided, even before reading the papers and even before starting the discussion in Junta, that Salvini had to be sent to trial, because it was necessary to defeat in this way a political opponent, blinded and obsessed as you are by hatred against Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am addressing the Senator Segre, who is not here today, but we will tell her: there is much work to be done in her Commission, starting with the left side of this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Hate is now becoming your specialty, and everyone understands that. But above all also to respond to that trick, to that trap, to that trap that the majority had prepared in Junta, deciding to escape in front of their responsibility, because they wanted to put Matteo Salvini to trial, but did not want to do so before the elections in Emilia-Romagna. They have decided to abandon the session of the Junta. What was Salvini supposed to do on that occasion? I also ask the many who have spoken about this, because in recent days everyone is making political strategies about what should have been done and said. What could Matteo Salvini do on that occasion? Hiding behind the possibility of having the numbers in the Junta - because the majority was not there - knowing that he would then go under in the Assembly? No, gentlemen, let's be clear: Matteo Salvini has shown not only that he has courage, not only that he wants to clarify, but also that he has the brain and political capacity not to fall into the traps and traps of those who, yes, escaped from that decision. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is what happened. What can we do today? I heard Matthew's speech; it is really difficult for us to endorse that political decision to put him to trial, but it is indisputable. For the first time, after years in which, with television debates and articles in the newspapers, we have heard how Europe had to take charge of all the migrants who land in Italy - it was even said that Lampedusa was the port of all Europe: chatter, Europe never looked out and always cared - comes an interior minister who succeeds in achieving this result and, in addition to decreasing landings, makes Europe aware of the need for redistribution, which finally happens. And what happens in our country? Political opponents want to send him to trial, rather than thank him for all his work and public interest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us be clear: defending borders is a public interest. Senator Gasparri's report is impeccable from this point of view, also on the involvement of the Government. I extend a special praise to the two senators of the MoVimento 5 Stars who intervened and I do so in advance to Senator Perilli, who - I remember - on the occasion of the vote on Diciotti, supported exactly what we are supporting today. I recognise that it is really hard for you to intervene today in this House. It is really difficult and, therefore, applause to those who have spoken, because this is also an act of courage. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] How can we say - I address the group leader Perilli - that the Government has nothing to do with it when we read that Minister Bonafede, just on July 30, on the case of Gregoretti, stated: The ship is docked at the port. There is a dialogue between the Ministries of Infrastructure, Interior and Defence. The government's position is always the same. Rights are safeguarded. The people who wanted to get out have come down. Are health conditions monitored, but the immigration problem of taking care of the whole of Europe? And so on La7: "I thank President Conte, who continues to put the question in the gates of Europe." How do you claim that the government had absolutely nothing to do with it? It is a very difficult position for you. It's unbelievable. The temptation to face all this is clear and is very strong in wanting to vote on the agenda presented by Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia. It's obvious: now we're all open cards. As I said, Senator Gasparri's report is absolutely impeccable. However, in compliance with what Matteo Salvini asked us not to oppose the trial, and by applauding Senator Stefani and the members of the Junta, who had a difficult task - among other things the report is fantastic, because the decision of the Junta has been "altered" and is the key word - our position will be a position that starts from the assumption that the Lega Group will certainly not participate in today's vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u80	SCHIFANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, today we are dealing with the same thing as a previous one, but with different majorities and, therefore, with different results. Such is the photograph of history that we are living at this time: identical fact, but treated differently because the majorities have changed. We are faced with two requests for the archiving of the attorney of Catania on the same identical facts, with identical reasons, precisely for the superimposition of the episodes: rescued from military ship in danger; stay in restricted, but safe spaces; migrants even after the POS have limited mobility due to their identification and other factors. Then there was a slowing down of the landing for the certainty of distribution. These are the reasons for abstract archiving and are identical in both cases. I would add that the same prosecutor has found that there have been releases in the blackberries of this activity: minors and a pregnant woman with the family. This is the state of things. Today, Parliament marks - in my opinion - a dark page of our history, because it gives way and addresses an issue relating to the separation of powers with a passive and remissive attitude. Here is at stake not only the trial against Senator Salvini, but also the holding of the principle of separation of powers, where it is enshrined in our Constitution that a political act, an act of government as such is not subject to judicial censorship. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] That is the figure and that is what has worried me, reading - as Mrs Modena said this morning - the reasons of the court of ministers. The court strives to identify the attitude of former Minister Salvini as an administrative act and not as a political act, proceeding on the contrary and identifying which according to the court of ministers are political acts and what administrative acts and, therefore, such that they can be prosecuted, as is intended to be done against the former Minister Salvini. The political act - according to the court of ministers of Catania - is the abstract and collegial act, physiological to the constitutional function of the Executive. These are acts such as the decree-law, the legislative decree, the ratification of international treaties and the dissolution of the Municipalities; the court lists a series of activities that can be identified as a political act and therefore not be held by the judiciary. If, however, political action and political action were to be taken only in this restricted area and not in the more abstract context of politics in the broadest sense, of immigration policy, which has already been explained and reiterated several times by President Conte and the various Ministers who have followed each other to foreign countries, both inside and outside, I would like to raise a question, Mr President. When in 1985 Bettino Craxi ordered the Carabinieri and the Air Force (VAM) to surround the American military Delta Force that had surrounded another plane in Sigonella, giving the order to prevent that plane from leaving, if it had all degenerated into a firefight, we would have had Bettino Craxi accused of manslaughter and murder, because it was not a political act and had not been preceded by a collegial action of the Council of Ministers? Let's be serious. This is the fact that we have to put ourselves. That is the interpretation of the Court of Ministers, which worries me and has to worry us very much. The political action of the Government in the matter of immigration was very clear, it was reiterated, we spoke about it in the case of Diciotti; it was confirmed during the operation Gregoretti, it was never denied by the President of the Council, by the Ministers and it was never questioned at any time, even when there were tensions with that Europe that was deaf to listen to the need for an immediate placement of immigrants. It has been said by some exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars that, in the case of Gregoretti, now the need for relocation had been resolved and, therefore, there was no longer the opportunity of that policy of rigour and landing subordinate to distribution. It's not like that. I remember how the excellent minister of the interior of Lamorgese is doing a good job that was also mentioned by Senator Salvini. In fact, it is also adopting, as a former prefect, and therefore as a competent person, a certain logic of the keeping of landings. Well, Minister Lamorgese, in September 2019, said that there was hope, after the Malta Summit, that Europe would take care of the problem. Let's talk about September 2019. The story of Gregoretti, which we are dealing with, dates back to July 2019 and, therefore, the problems were not yet resolved and it was logical that the government's policy was consistent with that of the past, the one expressed by President Conte in September 2019. I want to make a thought, ladies and gentlemen: I think that a serious mistake is made when we use parliamentary power for political and judicial purposes. I appreciated - although I do not share the final choice - the courage and words of Senator Salvini who wants a trial, but here there is not only the process of Senator Salvini in question. The principle of separation of powers and the safeguarding by Parliament of the fact that, at the time when the Executive or Parliament takes political action in the interests of the country, this cannot be left to the judiciary. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Candiani.]] This is the sacred principle that is called into question by a change of attitude due to a change of majority. We're not doing well. We are not getting out of this as a Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I tell you why, if you adopt the policy of rotating doors - remember colleagues - sooner or later the door will slam you in the face, it will also slam at you. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This is because we, in this Parliament - for example - were forced to give up, on 27 November 2013, the principle that when we talked about the decline of a Member of Parliament, the vote had to be secret. In the past there had been 47 secret votes on the decline of Members of Parliament. On that date, with the violence and the choice of the presidency and the majority in turn, we moved to a clear vote, taking away the freedom of conscience from Members when they pronounce on the decadence of a colleague. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] These accounts are paid, Mr President, because they remain as usual. In fact, from that moment on, we are now called upon to vote in a clear way on all decays, but it is a defeat: it is a defeat of politics, a defeat of Parliament, a defeat of our dignity. May I be allowed by my colleagues in the Democratic Party, who have fought with us for the approval of some laws such as the abolition of the prescription, that, while I confirm with positivity the fact that Italy Viva is fighting to avoid the approval of an unconstitutional law, register as the Democratic Party accepts the hypothesis that the condemned at first instance can then be retrieved after twenty or thirty years for the simple reason that with the praise count- bis, after the conviction at first degree, the prescription freezes, so we will have the accused for life. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Candiani]] Then be careful, colleagues: the Constitutional Court is there, fortunately there is - we have our weights and counterweights - and two hours ago it declared unconstitutional a law that was the pride of the Movimento 5 Stars, the one on retroactivity, the so-called "blast-blast," a law whose unconstitutionality they denounced in every way. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] Now it has arrived and the eventual unconstitutionality of the prescription will also come. Stop! Stop! Stop before it's too late! We don't change our mind. We haven't changed our mind. In conclusion, I would like to recall the words that were spoken in this House on 20 March 2019: "There is no doubt that we are in the presence of a government action", we were talking about the Diciotti case, "there is no doubt that this balance of interests in this case has been there, because in the face of a prominent interest (...) such as bringing Europe back to its responsibilities for the problem of migrants, there has been a minimum sacrifice, tolerable in democracy." These were the words of Senator Giarrusso speaking on behalf of the 5 Star Movimento. This was the position, among other things, of a fellow lawyer like me. Today this Movimento has changed its position for a political interest. Colleagues, when it comes to freedom, people do not change their minds because democracy is at stake, the maintenance of the system. And the strength of Forza Italia has been the force that since it was born, on the issues of freedom of justice, has never changed its mind for political interest. This is our strength and it continues to be so. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Candiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u83	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, through you I would like to respond ideally to this point, since I do not see Senator Salvini present; his Group will take up my comments. There are many things Senator Salvini should know, but he obviously doesn't know. I'm starting with the question of government benches. Our Rules of Procedure in Rule 59 and our Constitution in Rule 64 provide that the representatives of the Government - properly they are not sitting there because today there is an issue that concerns the Senate - if requested, they are obliged to attend the sessions. If requested, this is not meant at the request of Mr Salvini, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It seems to me that all the intervention of Senator Salvini, of the call, of the obligation towards him, is part of that theorem of victimism that I do not understand. We're talking high-headed. It's true: you have to go to the judges with your head up. But we must go there not as victims, not in the name of the Homeland or the Italian people, but to answer for our actions. And when Salvini says, it looks like they're gonna take me out in court. The judgment that counts is that of the people, I would like to ask him and you, colleagues of the League: but in whose name is justice administered? In the name of the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] And "In the name of the Italian people" is the introduction of every sentence, both in the case of condemnation and absolution. There's no other judge judging us. He must go and answer for his work. Senator Bongiorno said that the Senate should not abdicate to its own functions. And precisely because he does not abdicate to his duties, he is exercising them, he must exercise them [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and it is not conceivable that you tell the Senate how, where and when to exercise them. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] This means not being afraid and that's what we've always said. You can't tell me we don't have to be right. I'm a lawyer too, and if you want, I'll take that definition. However, I would like to analyse the behavior. At first, Salvini said he was being tried anyway. Then he said no, that's unfair. Then he said again that he was being tried and asked for a supplement in the Junta to be able to make use of Senator Salvini of a proper in-depth study of the emerging health issues within Gregoretti. Then you change your mind again, you decide to go to the Chamber and in the report you say you go to the court because the Junta was too politicized, because colleagues have left the Chamber. But isn't that a good attitude? [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] It doesn't seem so straightforward to me, and it doesn't seem to me that these are reasons that are supported from the beginning to the end. There is also another fact that I would like to clarify. Among other things, Senator Salvini said that he was tired of engaging the House in relation to his person. Then stop behaving and behavior that gives us an opportunity to take care of him. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] It's very simple. This is a personal opinion and I do not intend to start some controversy: my children do not bring them up in relation to political issues [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] and exploitations, because they must remain out of any context where there must be political action. My daughter's home, she's playing, she's going to school, and she can't know what we're doing here. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] This is a matter of personal and political style. Another very clear question: there is no fear here. The Diciotti case was different from the Gregoretti case. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u84	Who has to go out, go out and do it quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u85	Mr Perilli (M5S). I would like to address my colleagues, particularly those in my Group, and that means that words are being put to good use. If there's a reaction, it means the words go straight, and let them go straight. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As I said, these are two separate cases and the assessment of the application of the constitutional guarantees of Article 96 must be made with great weight, especially if they must be balanced by the constitutionally relevant interests, such as the right to health and to the dignity of persons, compared to other protected and relevant interests. This is the problem that concerned the judgment and evaluation of the Junta. However, I have heard in the various speeches a comment on the assessment of the effectiveness of government policy on migration flows and management, including at European level, of how this should be done. This has nothing to do with it. Here a technical opinion is required to understand whether Senator Salvini, at the time he was Minister and in his capacity, acted and, therefore, whether his conduct was consistent with the constitutional dictation. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Unterberger]] The rest would be an undue, illegitimate assessment based on our rules on the work of the Government and the President-in-Office of the Council, who, of course, responds first and foremost. From this point of view, it is also quite surprising that the two floors are confused. The same court never censored the political direction expressed by the government. Of course, in the so-called Count I and thanks to that political direction, Europe has taken on board this issue. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There has been a redistribution of migrants on the basis of the principle that those who land in Italy land in Europe and the premises have been created also at European level for responsible management. However, this does not mean that a minister, even if he were in agreement with the address of the entire Executive, may deviate and even, if possible, commit a crime. These are distinct plans that must remain so. However, I note a certain nervousness with regard to the fact that Salvini was the master of the landings for a period and he himself, in every interview, in every statement, said that he was the one who decided who landed and who did not land in this country. Well, it seems to me that that same determination has faded a little, that the tone of its roar has faded a little and now wants to seek shelter under the umbrella of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council. Who used to roar now emits the faint sound of those who seek or invoke shelter. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Unterberger]] Here we go back to the question of courage. What is courage, colleagues? It is simply to answer for its actions and to let Parliament do its job. Everything here has happened less than this. Everything has been used for political propaganda, to be able to carry on something that has nothing to do with it, and it is no coincidence that we have been talking about the prescription, the infrastructure, the construction sites. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Unterberger]] This means being afraid of the truth. What did Senator Salvini come to tell us? Weren't we supposed to evaluate his constitutional prerogatives? Is this senate abdicating to its functions? It is not true at all and we do not lack the courage - I tell President Romeo - to reaffirm our positions, so it is and will always be. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]] 15:18 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u86	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda, tabled by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and others, which proposes refusing to allow Senator Matteo Salvini to proceed to trial. Pursuant to paragraph 8 of Rule 135-a of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal will be deemed rejected if it does not result in the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 160 votes. I would remind you that the result will not be announced immediately, because the senators who did not participate in the vote will then be able to go to the Bureau and declare their clear vote to the Secretary Senators who will keep it in special kept minutes. This option may be exercised during today's sitting until the closing of voting operations scheduled for 7 p.m. After voting, voting will take place. Pursuant to Rule 135- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the voting by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and others, with which it is proposed to refuse authorization to proceed to trial against Senator Matteo Salvini. Senators who intend to grant permission to proceed, and therefore agree with the Junta's proposal, will vote no. Senators who wish to deny permission to proceed will vote yes. Senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the roll-call vote closed by simultaneous ballot. The Secretary Senators will take note of the outcome of this vote. As has already been announced, senators who have not taken part in the votes will be able to declare their clear vote to the Secretary Senators at the Bureau. This option may be exercised during today's sitting until the closing of voting operations scheduled for 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u87	The President of the 7th Permanent Commission, Senator Pittoni, has the floor to report on the Commission's work on draft law No 1664.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u88	Mr President, the Commission has not yet completed its examination of draft law No 1664. The rapporteur, Senator Angrisani, tabled an amendment this morning amending the Decree-Law in several parts. The deadline for submitting any sub-amendments was set at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. The examination could end - in my opinion - on Tuesday 18 February, but this is an indicative figure, nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Pittoni's report, the debate on draft law No 1664 is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u90	The voting operations continue. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 3 p.m.24 p.m. - at 4 p.m. - 3:37 p.m. - - 17.34 -). I declare the votes closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I am aware that the Conference of Leaders is in progress, at the end of which we will resume our work. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.09 p.m. and resumed at 7.20 p.m.) I declare the result of the roll-call vote on the G1 agenda, tabled by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and others, which proposes that Senator Matteo Salvini should not be allowed to proceed to trial: [[Senators present 229 Senators voting 228 Absolute majority of members of the Senate 160 Favorables 76 Contrari 152]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a result of the rejection of the G1 agenda, the conclusions of the Junta in favour of granting authorization to bring proceedings against Senator Matteo Salvini are therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u91	The Conference of Leaders unanimously approved changes and additions to the current timetable. In tomorrow's session, starting at 1.30 p.m., the inspection union will take place. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers for Economic Development, Infrastructure and Regional Affairs. On Tuesday 18 February, beginning at 4 p.m., the Assembly will begin the discussion of the decree-law on interception, where concluded by the Commission. At 6 pm, as already established, will take place the call for the election of two members of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications. At the end of the vote, the examination of the decree-law may continue until the conclusion of the general discussion and replies. On Wednesday 19, at 9.30 a.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the extraordinary European Council of 20 February 2020. After the communications, the Assembly will continue the examination of the decree-law in the matter of interceptions, until its conclusion. Thursday 20 will be discussed the decree-law on the establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research. The inspection union, already planned, will not take place. The question time is confirmed at 3 p.m. In the week from 25 to 27 February there will be a discussion of the decree-law extending the time limits, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies. If concluded by the Commission, the Decree-Law on the reduction of the tax burden on employees will also be examined.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u92	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted unanimously - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current calendar: [[Thursday 13 February h. 13,30 - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 13, at 3 p.m.)]] [[Tuesday, February 18, h. 16 - Drawing of law no. 1659 - Decree-Law No. 161, Interceptions (where concluded by the Commission) (decades on 29 February) - Vote for the election of two members of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and of two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications (secret ballot vote by ballot) (Tuesday 18, 6 p.m.) * - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the extraordinary European Council of 20 February 2020 (Wednesday 19, 9.30 a.m.) - Drawing of Law No. 1664 - Decree-Law No. 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and of the Ministry of University and Research (where concluded by the Commission) (decades on 9 March) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 20, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 19 "H. 9.30 Thursday 20 " h. 9.30 * After calling the ballot box will remain open until 8 p.m.]] [[Tuesday, February 25 h. 16,30 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 162, Extension of terms (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on February 29) - Drawing of law n. 1698 - Decree-Law n. 3, Reduction of the tax burden on employees (where concluded by the Commission) (final vote by March 7) (decades on April 5) - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 27, at 15) Wednesday 26 " h. 9,30 Thursday 27 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law no.... (Decree-Law No. 162, Extension of time limits) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1698 (Decree-Law No 3, Reduction in the tax burden on employees) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of draft law no. 1659 (Decree-Law No. 161, Interceptions) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 31' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 6' PD 50' Mixed 39' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the Extraordinary European Council of 20 February 2020 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 39' FI-BP 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' PD 21' Mixed 17' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1664 (Decree-Law No. 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 31' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 6' PD 50' Mixed 39' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 162, Extension of time limits) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 5' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 47' PD 36' Mixed 28' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1698 (Decree-Law No. 3, Tax reduction on employees) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 31' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 6' PD 50' Mixed 39' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-190.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 13 February, at 13.30, with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.25 p.m.)
