ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr GINETTI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u3	On 15 April 2020, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 16 of 11 March 2020 laying down urgent provisions for the organisation and conduct of the Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games Milano-Cortina 2026 and the Finals ATP Torino 2021-2025, as well as for the prohibition of parasitic advertising" (1777).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u4	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy on initiatives under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy to address the epidemiological emergency of the Covid-19. I call the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Senator Bellanova.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's information gives me the opportunity to explain to you the first necessary actions we have taken as a Government and as a Ministry to deal with these dramatic weeks. Just established, last September, I made a commitment: to bring agriculture and agri-food to the heart of the country's political, social and economic agenda. I was sure of the enormous potential of this sector, of its strength on the global markets, of the intrinsic quality of its enterprises, of the millions of women and men who work every day to ensure food on our tables, of its extraordinary ability to speak to the future and for this reason become a territory of election for the new generations. Today the centrality of this chain of life, that in these months has never stopped, guaranteeing supplyings in a constant way, despite obvious difficulties is under the eyes of all. And if we are all grateful to those who have taken care of and continue to take care of the health of people with a sense of absolute self-denial and responsibility, to the same extent I want and we must be grateful to those who - thousands of women and men, often struggling with humble tasks - are guaranteeing the country an essential good like food, demonstrating - yes - a high sense of the State. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]] That is why I have told my fellow Agriculture Ministers in Europe, and I repeat this before you today, that it is a shared and collective responsibility: guaranteeing the food supply chain is a European priority. Not a farmer, farmer or fisherman will have to stop their work. None of those who work in the food and food chain. And when I say no one, I say warehousemen, transporters, bankers, clerks. No one. Hence the strategy that we have put in place and which must be strengthened in the next steps, in order to continue to deal with the emergency that - let us not be deceived - will still be long, in order to be able to put in place the following. The quality of the answers we give to the present will decide the goodness of the recovery, the future that we inaugurate, in the awareness - now yes - that food supply chain and national interest coincide. That is why it will be essential to continue in the very close cooperation between the Government and Parliament and for this reason we must be clear that the complexity with which we are dealing is governed only by the primacy of politics, only if politics assumes to the full, without delegate, its responsibility in the governance of the processes, with the courage that at other moments in the history of our country the ruling classes have been able to demonstrate. I am convinced that this absolutely means working immediately to resume the paths of a normality that we must know how to prefigure and build. In these weeks we have said that nothing will be the same as before. I invite all of us to commitment, humility, sobriety, courage that this means and to look at things for what they are. True, the food supply chain has not interrupted a single day's work, yet critical issues and problems are on the agenda. The first weeks of border blockades and the inconceivable demand for free virus certificates for our products were not painless, nor was the total blockade of the Horeca sector and the closure of fundamental trade channels such as foreign markets, resulting in significant and, in some cases, very significant economic losses. Excellent sectors, our ambassadors on the world markets today are in great trouble, difficulties to which are added ancient weaknesses, damages that previous climatic and phytopathological events had already caused, criticalities that await structural solutions and that we have committed to identify in the related agriculture. This is why the alarm launched by companies and associations on the shortage of seasonal workers and the difficulty of finding the workforce is dramatic and can irremediably bring the work and the collection of products to their knees. It cannot happen, it must not happen, not while in this country there is a growing number of our fellow citizens who, forced by the emergency to stop working, today unfortunately have difficulties to feed; Not when it means bending the work and investment of years, the very lives of businesses, the occupational safety of millions of workers and workers. This crucial chain may not withstand the impact of so many concomitant events. We can't let that happen. I therefore move from the subject perhaps more sensitive, because of the need for that primacy of the policy that I have previously stressed: the emergency agricultural work. The associations tell us of a shortage of seasonal labor between 270,000 and 350,000 units. We know that thousands of foreign workers, especially from the East, who have so far been employed in our countryside as seasonal workers, have returned to their countries. In our agricultural sector 346,000 workers and workers from 155 different countries are employed and with more than 30 million working days represent 26.2% of the total work required in our campaigns. Our agriculture is therefore also a great integration laboratory. A good half of the employed foreigners are concentrated in 15 provinces, where in many agricultural districts immigrant workers are a well integrated component in the economic and social fabric. At the same time, other workers, invisible to the most, so-called irregular - 600,000 according to estimates - live in informal settlements, underpaid and often exploited in an inhuman way, people who in most cases already work in our territory, at the mercy, together with the companies to which they give their arms, of that crime that we call caporalized and that for me means mafia. In the current situation the conditions of these irregulars are even more complicated and fragile and these people are even more exposed to health risk and hunger. Without ideological furies or hypocrisies, ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to assume responsibility: either the State takes responsibility for the lives of these people or crime will exploit them. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and IV-PSI groups]] The Government has already adopted measures to strengthen the health protection of migrant citizens living in irregular settlements in order to prevent the spread of infection by Covid-19 in such particularly at risk contexts, but it is not enough. At the same time, I know very well how this crisis will lead - and indeed it is already doing so - to the exit from the world of work of many people, such as seasonal tourism and catering, as many precarious people in other sectors. For this reason, yesterday in the Chamber I stressed the indispensability of taking necessarily structural, more courageous and incisive paths, because we have to give answers to such a wide and complex audience and because it is no longer possible to tolerate the scourge of undeclared work in this country. My commitment follows three lines: facilitation of return to Italy and extension of immigrants' permits; fight against the caporalate, including through regularisation; facilitate the recruitment of workers who are currently unemployed. An emergency action plan for agricultural work is needed, the priority actions of which are: implementation of the measures of the three-year plan of prevention and contrast to the caporalate, with an urgent mapping of the needs of agricultural work and the use of the planning already financed by the Ministries of Labour and the Interior to address the emergency; acceleration of the platform useful to the encounter between the supply and demand present in the plan, to be activated also in emergency form; unblocking of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers flows 2020, whose text, already ready and shared between the administrations, can guarantee the conversion of the seasonal contracts already in existence and the use of the 18,000 quotas of seasonal entrances reserved for agriculture and tourism. It will be directly the intersection between supply and demand of work, through a platform for the registration of potential agricultural workers, and we are working to make it happen very quickly. I believe it is essential, in the emerging phase, to regularise non-EU nationals who receive job offers, but also, at the same time, to ensure that income support benefits are combined with employment relationships. This plant connects to what we wanted in the Italian care on the specific subject of work, enriched by the comparison in this House. In order to give relief to businesses and also help workers in fishing, we have provided for the possibility by the regions of granting the treatment of wage integration by way of derogation for the duration of the suspension of the employment relationship. We have also worked for an allowance for farmers and professional farmers and for an allowance for fixed-term agricultural workers. In order to facilitate the employment of those who are already working, we have extended the validity of residence permits for seasonal work until 31 December; in order to facilitate companies that use occasional labour, we have guaranteed the operation in the countryside also for the relatives of the entrepreneur. The medical examination for seasonal workers will finally be worth a year, making life easier for workers and businesses. The previous crises that I have mentioned and this terrible pandemic must make us reflect on how fundamental food self-supply is and how essential it is to guarantee the maintenance of the Italian supply chain and in our country. The pandemic, the climatic emergency and the emergence of phytopathologies require a reflection on how much road it is necessary to take to protect agriculture more effectively in times of severe market crisis. This calls for a thorough rethink of the CAP system. Today, more than yesterday, Community policy must be simpler, less bureaucratic, and above all, for crisis cases such as the present, it must provide for mechanisms of protection to ensure the survival of farms and the safety of food production. I intend to reiterate this need strongly, as I have done in recent months, in the course of the negotiations on the future of the CAP and the green deal. For agriculture to guarantee the protection of the territory and contribute to green change, it must be environmentally sustainable, but also economically and socially. Only in this way will we guarantee a sustainable system of food production. In recent weeks, I have specifically asked my offices to maintain a high level of efficiency and to keep open dialogue with associations and institutions. I myself am particularly alert at this time to all the reports of discomfort and criticality that are being made by you colleagues as well. I believe that this way of working is the only effective way of dealing with the serious difficulties facing our sector. Many of the actions that I will be going to explain to you have been initiated drawing from the reports emerged in the constant dialogue with the social partners and the institutional chain and, in particular, with the Regions, also gathering your suggestions. The contribution of all forces is essential to cope with this epochal crisis. We have said this before and we are demonstrating it in practice. Agriculture needs cooperation and sharing. It is a chain of life and, as such, deserves attention and concreteness. From the end of January to today I have signed 54 measures. Some of these included actions to deal with the climatic and phytopathological emergencies that have severely affected certain sectors, such as the Asian bug, which has severely damaged the fruit and vegetable sector, the declarations on exceptional atmospheric adversities in some regions, the granting of aid in support of enterprises in the fisheries and aquaculture sector affected by natural disasters. The Ministry is also proceeding, along the lines of total transparency to the consumer on the labelling of origin and, in this regard, we have extended the rules on the indication of origin on the label of durum wheat, tomato and rice. A new decree is also foreseen to extend the indication of origin on the label for processed pigmeat, now pending the opinion of the parliamentary committees. We must not forget that sustainability for our companies also goes through the correct and transparent information on the label. I have also signed the decree on organic production, labelling of organic products and organic school canteens for the reopening of the deadline for submitting the application for registration to the list of contracting stations. The development of organic farming is an issue that we must continue to support for the future of our agriculture. In addition to these measures, I have signed many of them in connection with the emergency of the Covid-19. I believe that this is a considerable number of acts which show how much attention is paid to the various needs of the agricultural world and, at the same time, how much action is needed on the serious situation of the sector. On the Covid-19 emergency, we started essentially on two lines: maximum facilitation of company compliance and economic support. The rules therefore guarantee the greatest possible flexibility, the extension of differing deadlines and some administrative simplifications. In addition to these facilitation actions, I have concentrated on actions of economic support to companies, including specific measures both in government decrees and ministerial decrees to inject liquidity into the system through credit lines, subsidies on production, tax relief and social security. Let me now review some of these actions. The first rules launched by the Government had the primary objective of blocking the spread of the virus by limiting the risk of infection. Now I think it is necessary to begin gradually reopening activities with maximum safety for workers and without wasting the sacrifices made. Government capacity must prove itself not in closing down businesses, but in reopening them by ensuring health protection in the workplace and safety in mobility towards them. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] With the decree of April 10 we also included forestry and the maintenance of the green of the woods. In addition, we are working to publish a FAQ that allows the care activity of small agricultural areas used for self-consumption production. Another issue of concern and concern is florovivaism. On the substance, there was a need for clarification of the rule and I wanted a FAQ that would give greater certainty to the supply chain and to consumers. The Ministry of the Interior, at our request, is sending very clear provisions to the prefectures regarding the interpretation of the provision. I am aware that the sector has suffered and is suffering enormous damage and that in certain regions it is of vital economic importance and, for this reason, we will resume a specific proposal in the decree cure Italy bis. To support it vigorously, I call for an alliance in Parliament of all forces. As far as the CAP is concerned, we have focused on several lines for all the sectors concerned. Some measures were already feasible at national level; for others, it was, and is necessary, the intercourse with the European Commission, which we are pursuing. The basic principle that I asked my offices to follow, in preparing national measures and negotiating with Brussels, was to facilitate, as much as possible, the obligations for farmers, by delaying the deadlines, by anticipating CAP payments, by allowing changes to the projects already submitted, by simplifying controls and reorienting resources. In addition, I have asked to draw on all the Community resources provided for in the various sectors covered by the Single CMO and Rural Development Regulation. We have already achieved many results. The European Commission has opened wide openings on delays, derogations from controls, private clusters and distillation for wine. I believe that it is important for our producers to be able to continue working without the weight of an unsustainable bureaucracy at this stage. On private clusters, we sent the Commission a document, prepared and agreed with the regions, to activate private storage for cheese, butter, beef, pigmeat and ovocaprine meat. We await an answer from the Commission itself. For milk, we have asked, at all Community tables, for action to be taken at European level. On rural development, it is necessary to ensure full implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes by introducing procedural simplifications and flexibility on the programmes. From 2021, a single measure should be activated at national level, in order to provide for a payment commensurate with the area or animals, on which a commitment to be financed with part of the EAFRD funds for the financial year 2021 must be insisted. In addition, a percentage of this 2021 fund will be used to ensure continuity of the 2014-2020 programming pending the launch of the new one. As I said, the other line on which we are moving is to ensure the necessary liquidity for companies. We must ensure that the supply chain does not stop, guaranteeing resources and unlocking payments. With regard to the measures we have taken as a government, we have taken important measures to support businesses in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. The agricultural sector is in full capacity in the decree credits. The CAP advances will bring EUR 1.4 billion in liquidity from June onwards. The simplification of national payments will allow us to unlock funds that have been standing still for some time. The decree cures Italy, as amended to the Senate, gives oxygen in this sense. We have allocated EUR 100 million to provide guarantees for agriculture and fisheries through Ismea. We have also set up a EUR 100 million fund to cover interest on bank loans, loans contracted by companies, as well as the temporary cessation of fishing activities, including inland waters. On this point, already next week we will be able to share a first text of the implementing decree to give immediate responses to companies. We have strengthened access to the revolving fund for cash firms deposits and loans for the soft-rate financing of investments made by companies in the poultry sector. In addition, we have extended the revolving pledge to all PDO and PGI food products. Finally, as soon as exports can resume, it will be necessary to promote our production properly. To this end, we have planned the implementation of an extraordinary communication campaign. Returning to the Ministry's activities, I would like to point out that my goal was to reorganize the structure, so as to be performing and not to slow down the machine in any way. With the last State-Regions Conference, we approved the decree granting extensions and simplification in the implementation of the related programmes on CMO wine, fruit and vegetables, oil, zootechnics and beekeeping. This measure will allow companies to carry out investments and activities already planned, thus addressing the current emergency. Each company will have more time available on questions, reports, implementation of activities. Once the emergency is over, however, what will be expected can be achieved with the expected results and, also in this way, the companies of these important supply chains will have an extra card for relaunching. As national economic support measures, we have focused on some key lines of intervention, supply chains and quality products. One of the critical issues that emerged overpoweringly during this crisis is that we need to strengthen our own supply of raw materials. The decrees concerning the supply chains have this precise objective. Measures have been taken to set up the durum wheat fund for EUR 40 million, the national pig fund for EUR 5 million, the national single commission fund for EUR 200,000, the sector competitiveness fund for EUR 29.5 million. On this last point, cooperation with the Regions was essential in order to approve the measure quickly. It is a first instrument in which I believe very much, which intervenes on the strategic supply chains such as maize, soya, legumes, where we are highly deficient. This measure also provides for emergency intervention for the sheep supply chain, with substantial aid for Italian lambs. To avoid the waste of buffalo milk I have allocated resources to cope with the demand compression phase due to the closure of restaurants and pizzerias. We are also following with attention all the supply chains in crisis or with prospects of worsening; for example, for the pig sector, a technical meeting was held at the Ministry to identify further urgent actions to protect the sector. For the milk is published in the Official Gazette the decree of 6 million euros for the supply of milk for the most deprived and the publication of the ban for the purchase is just as imminent. The offices are studying an intervention to protect income for this sector, with direct support, taking as the basis the production of the previous year to have certain data and to be able to deliver more quickly. The estimate of needs is €50 million. Wine is another of the sectors strongly involved in the blocking of commercial channels. That is why I am considering intervention for voluntary distillation: the priority is to use the CMO funds, calling for the activation of the crisis distillation measure at EU level. First, however, it is necessary to verify how much resources of the CMO funds will be spent by 15 October 2020. In case the intervention is not sufficient, we will propose in the decree-law a specific additional measure. The suspension of many productive activities and the limitation of movements has hit hard also the agricultural sector, causing an economic collapse: I will propose a proposal of compensation in the next decree-law also for this section. Particular attention should also be paid to the livestock sector of equidae, which is in great suffering, especially as regards tourist activities, horseback riding and horseback riding. Turning to quality products, it is concluded the procedure of the decree on organic rotations for PDO and PGI products. We have granted temporary derogations to the disciplines of Parmesan cheese, buffalo mozzarella and Bresaola, to facilitate production at this historical stage and we have granted extensions for the reporting of projects. At the same time, for the relaunch of these quality productions we have foreseen the granting of contributions to consortia for promotion and communication, with the release of payments for more than 2 million euros. The closure of activities, trade blockades and restrictions on trade are leading to the creation of food surpluses. With regard to these food surpluses, I would like to take up again the speech on the importance of the needy National Fund, financed for EUR 50 million. The Fund is an economic opportunity, because it allows us to give new life to products that have not been placed on the market, but, at the same time, to give a social response to the many people who are in difficulty and who do not have access to food. The basket was set up together with the table to which all the institutions, the supply chain and charitable bodies participate and took into account the sectors most in market crisis. The table was reconvened for April 22, also to define any further proposals. This instrument is often underestimated, but offers enormous potential if it is framed in a programmed perspective. The basket covers a number of products that are currently at greater risk of waste, including beef and sheepmeat, ham, cold cuts, cheese and fruit and vegetable preserves. This funding amounts to 6 million already earmarked for the purchase of milk and 14 million for the purchase of pecorino cheese. In this emerging phase there were no anomalies in contractual relations, which seemed to go beyond the correct supply chain relationships. Several cases have been reported to us. In order to stop any potential unfair practice immediately, we have activated a dedicated e-mail address and monitored by the Central Inspectorate for the protection of quality and fraud prevention of agri-food products (ICQRF). To date, through this instrument, about twenty cases have been reported to be examined. Overall, since the beginning of February, our inspectorate has carried out over 15,500 anti-fraud checks throughout the country and over 2,200 analytical checks. The controlled products were 17,400. The rates of irregularities recorded, both for inspection activities and for analytical activities, were in line with the indices found before the emergency status. Many of the inspections were carried out at the production plants, even in the regions most affected by pandemics. These data give me the opportunity to highlight and thank for the valuable work carried out by ICQRF inspectors, who, despite the objective difficulties they face daily, continue to ensure with great sense the quality of the Italian food chain. The pandemic has also hit the fisheries and aquaculture sectors hard. The demand for fresh product has fallen drastically and the situation is very serious. In the Italian decree, as already mentioned, there are specific measures to protect the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. Equally important is the possibility of flexible action through the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. Let us not forget that fishing remains the exclusive competence of the European Union and the exercise of a power involves taking responsibility. That is why I have encouraged the European Commission, including a personal letter to the Commissioner, to take immediate and appropriate measures to support the fisheries and aquaculture sector. The substance of our requests has been accepted and this gives us particular satisfaction and strengthens us in our commitment to give concrete answers to this very important sector for our country. The picture that I have outlined gives back the action to the whole field on which we are engaged and the overall strategy that we will pursue also in the months to come, implementing the lines of strength, so that our enterprises and the food chain are put in a position to do what they most know how to do and that the world envies us, that is, quality food, of the highest quality. This means continuing the dialogue that is taking place in this House too, in order to share and develop new pieces. One thing is important for everyone: we need to strengthen our food supply chain and our production system, so that we never find ourselves weaker as we have been in recent weeks. This applies to the national policy lines of the sector and also to the common agricultural policy. For me this means continuing to affirm the centrality, in Italy and in Europe, of the life supply chain and working to solve and address, one by one, punctually, all the criticalities that incline its strength. I am sure I can say that all of us in this House share this objective. Colleagues, I count very much on your contribution and will listen very carefully to your speeches. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u7	Mr President, after the generous intervention of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, it would seem that in Italy agriculture is a very healthy sector, with thousands of measures, with a series of activities and funds, which make this economic sector almost the Bengodi of our national economy. Dear Minister, I beg your pardon: that is not the case. Italian agriculture, as we had the opportunity to say at the meeting of the Joint Commissions in September, when it was threatened, has a series of unresolved problems, which has been going on for about twenty years. With warm cloths, provisions for derogations and extensions, which we have seen in the measures approved and in the measures launched by the Government, we are not going anywhere. She is passionate about the theme of the caporalate. Now he wants to regularize immigrants, but he has forgotten that the real caporalate is the one that afflicts Italian farmers, enslaved by a neoliberal system, which has bent price formation. We were the only ones who demonstrated how prices are formed in agriculture. You are aware of our activities, but you have done nothing so far to restore dignity to farmers. Agriculture is done with agricultural enterprises, not with non-EU workers. You may have a nostalgic memory of your trade union activity when you were a trade unionist, but I think you never set foot on a farm and you don't know what it's like to run one. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Comments from Group IV-PSI]] A Government that wants to solve the problems in Italy should first put people competent to carry out its activities, who have the confidence of what it means to be a farmer in Italy. It does not seem to us that so far its activity has in any way affected our sector. You do not know that there are thousands of farms that are not in Bonis, that are in suffering and that from this Government they have received no attention. There are over 600,000 hectares of land abandoned in Italy and our Government continues to tolerate imports from the rest of the world of contaminated food, for which there are prohibitions that our Government does not respect. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Comments of Senator Steger]] And then we come here to deceive our consumers that our agricultural policy guarantees healthy products and that our controls, carried out by the Central Inspectorate for the Protection of Quality and Counterfeiting of Food Products (ICQRF), are effective. You should tell us whether Community regulations are of value in Italy. One of the most recent regulations on haddock, approved in 2016, has established prohibitions, transposing the precautionary principle; but ships dock in our ports, appealing to a regulation of 2013, which instead sets other limits. How come you have never bothered to deepen this topic, after I have questioned it for 18 times, listing all the ships that arrive in Italy? [[Senator Begin's comments. Call the president back.]] If we want to give thanks to our agricultural sector, we must start to do the checks seriously; we must help the farms that are in difficulty; we must consider that we are in the post-war period and that agricultural activity will become central again. The many unemployed who will no longer find a job, because many factories and many shops will no longer reopen, will find in agriculture a useful space to feed entire generations that are infected, contaminating, sick because our food is uncontrolled, dear Minister. The precautionary principle, the cocktail effect, many of the key topics envisaged by the European Union are not applied by the Italian Government. We need to figure out why this is happening. Why is Foggia's stock exchange, which has been closed as a result of a measure of the TAR, still operating, distorting prices and saying that there is an increase in world demand for wheat, so that prices have splashed, while we have not moved a comma on the market for the price of wheat? Why do these things happen? Why does our government leave the many who speculate on the skin of our farms unpunished? Have you ever wondered? We try to deal with the issues without hiding, because we are all good at illustrating the data and putting one hundred lire on buffaloes, two hundred lire on rabbits, four hundred lire on pigs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. De Bonis (Misto). I'm done, ma'am. You should go around farms; you should be accompanied by the trade unions, who do not invite you to concentrate in the hands of a few the Agricultural Assistance Centres (CAAs), for the distribution of our Community funds: access must be possible for everyone, for all free professionals, because even the freelancers, who have VAT consignments, can arrange these checks. Do not be fooled by some trade unions, who would also like to monopolise the services sector. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u8	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her timely and precise information, but before I go into the subject of some of the issues that I would like to bring to her attention, I would also like to say a non-formal thank you to all the workers in the sector, because perhaps they have not been thanked enough. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, know that if there is one sector that no one has ever had the doubt to close, it has been the supply of food, so I really believe that this House must send a heartfelt thanks to all the men and women who, every day, for almost two months, have allowed that, from the banks of the large distribution, to the local markets to the neighborhood shops, there was never a lack of food. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]] This is, as the Minister called it, the life supply chain: it is certainly an evocative term, but I like it and it worked just like that. The first thing I would like to do, therefore, is a heartfelt thanks to all the workers who allow to live in this sector of excellence, which we always considered strategic, ranging from the great products of excellence known all over the world, such as our oils, wines, passing through the meats, cheeses, up to reach more special and particular products (the honey comes to mind, of which we have talked a lot also in recent times). Every sector in this sector needs to be known, taken into account and to have the attention and support it deserves at this time of extreme crisis. All right, then, Madam Minister, all that you have said to us, not only in representing this House once again what initiatives have already been taken in these almost two months of crisis due to the coronavirus, but also in referring to what action can still be taken. His comments on simplification are very positive: economic support is needed. Madam Minister, what there is no time to say in the five minutes of my speech can be taken back from the agenda of the majority. What the Democratic Party of the agro-food sector thinks and what is the idea of relaunching and supporting this sector is well explained on the agenda linked to the so-called Italian decree-law, converted last week in this House. In that act of direction the strategicity and importance of each sector of the agro-food sector is reaffirmed. At the moment, I have spoken about two people who are particularly dear to me, although, Madam Minister, we will be careful about this, I tell you. In fact, if it is true that in this House it is said that an agenda on agriculture is not denied to anyone, it is also true that we ask that the agenda on agriculture linked to the decree-law care Italy be really taken into account for the decree-law care Italy bis (or what will be called). We need to give concrete answers and we think that that agenda gives a clear and precise line that must be followed by the Government. I would like to focus on zootechnics and flora, two strategic sectors. As for the first, you know how many animals (both for meat and for milk) make up this important sector and in your information you have also partially appointed them. In this regard, I do a little inscription to recall a category that is almost never remembered and that instead is essential to have healthy, healthy and controlled food on our tables: I am referring to public, private veterinarians, companies and food control, of the whole supply chain, which make sure that we can eat quality and healthy food. Zootechnics need support, Minister, because if it is true that the fields at all times of the season need maintenance and care, all the more so for animals there is a need for daily and constant care, because from this comes their health and, therefore, the quality of the food we eat. The flora is very close to my heart, given also the territory and the region from which I come along with other distinguished colleagues. I thank the government for what it has already done by unlocking the activities in recent weeks, but we need to relaunch, as you announced. I am glad that in the second measure care Italy there may be a specific measure on florovivaism. We need to give answers to a sector that is not only strategic and important for our nation, but that is also of fundamental importance worldwide, because Italian plants are known and exported all over the world. We therefore need a great deal of attention. Mr President, I shall conclude by pointing out, through you to the whole Government, that the Democratic Party Group is helping the Government, because we want to give real and real help, so we are calling for constant cooperation. Let us be strong, Minister, of our support; let us be strong at the European tables, because it is essential for the European Union to give a signal of attention to the Italian agri-food sector by all means that we can gain on those tables. Be strong in our support. I have already asked you in the Commission and I ask you, also through the President, to come to the Commission, where everyone - the majority, but I think I can also say this for the opposition - wants to help build a future for agriculture, which is really a sector - the life supply chain, as you called it - which needs our full attention. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u10	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr Bellanova, it is a pleasure to have you here, partly because it has been about two months since we were able to see you in the Committee on Agriculture because of the coronavirus. I also thank Senator Biti for touching on this subject. Minister, we are happy to expect you in the Committee on Agriculture; we only saw you at the beginning of your term of office on the occasion of that brief report on the policy lines. I repeat, we look forward to it. Minister, I would also like to thank you for your presence today, because there are so many problems in agriculture. I listened carefully to your speech, but I must say that, beyond the many beautiful words and the list of many very small speeches, I have seen absolutely nothing. Everything you have said I see only in routine measures that any zealous official of the Ministry of Agriculture could do quietly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So I don't see anything exceptional in the work you've done and I tell you quietly. There has been so much talk of anticipation of the CAP, as if it were something exciting for the emergency coronavirus in support of the agriculture sector clearly in crisis (we hear it every day), but I remind you that the anticipation of the CAP is due only to the delays of Agea, which does not work. The anticipation of the CAP is not only for the coronavirus that you have made now, but we did it last year with Minister Centinario. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , at a time when there was absolutely no coronavirus. I do not want to forget to thank the farmers, as the previous Members have done. Farmers are currently working and they are one of the very few categories that has been working since the start of the coronavirus emergency. Immediately after the doctors and nurses, I believe that farmers should be mentioned the Forces of Order which, it is right to remember, are committed to enforcing quarantine to all citizens. I believe that the world of agriculture certainly expected much more than what you have told us. There was a lot of talk about the decree-law care Italy, converted last week: well, I do not know if this measure will save Italy, certainly does not save farmers, since there is absolutely nothing about measures for farmers within the decree-law. Minister, you spoke earlier about the flower industry, for which you rightly say that something needs to be done. Here, I would like to remind you that the nursery sector is perhaps the most strongly affected in this period of coronavirus. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] As far as this sector is concerned, however, it is also right to remind you, Minister, that since the beginning of the Coronavirus emergency - I have also spoken to the Undersecretary L'Abbate who was right, as well as to you - all said that we should reopen the flowering sector also because it is not only necessary to buy the primroses to be placed on the balcony in spring: the flowering sector serves to buy seeds and plants for the vegetable garden. I remind everyone that one in three Italians, today, in 2020, grow their own vegetable garden, which also serves the family economy. And if we don't stop now, Minister, when should we? I don't know - as Senator De Bonis said before - if you've ever been to a farm, but I want to remind you that if we don't plant now, we're not going to pick up fruit and vegetables. And if we then link all this reasoning - allow me - also to the fact that citizens are locked in the house, they can go and buy at the grocery store below home and we realize that in the supermarkets below home there is an increase of up to 223 percent of the prices of fruit and vegetables, some question I would ask myself. If we can control those who move more than 200 or 300 meters from home with the Forces of Order, Minister, I wonder how you can not control that there are such crazy increases in supermarkets: I believe that this question should be asked a minimum of concession. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Five minutes is really a few, but I often see it on the news and repeatedly we talk about 600,000 illegals to regularize. There is a need for labour in agriculture but let us remember that, most likely, by approving the vouchers as proposed by the League we had solved the problem. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] Before concluding - five minutes are really few - I would also like to remind you that in order to collect tomatoes under the sun, if you would allocate some funding to agro-mechanicals, machines to collect tomatoes and any other type of plant cultivated in the field, nowadays there are. There is only enough funding to give to farmers and it will be seen that, as if by charm, the problem of the caporalate will also be solved. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u12	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, as is sadly known, Italy is going through one of the darkest moments in its history, all because of an enemy that is not visible to the naked eye but that is doing so much harm. They have been violently ripped from our lives habits that were part of our everyday life. I think of a coffee at the bar, a dinner at the restaurant, a hug: all cancelled, sacrificed on the right altar of health protection. Few have remained the certainties to which the Italians could cling. I am thinking of the extraordinary generosity, human and professional, of our health and safety sectors or the genius of the entrepreneurs who have converted their productions to produce protective tools. One of the other few, pleasing certainties, is surely to find our agri-food heritage in supermarkets: milk, eggs, meat and cheese, bread, fruit and vegetables have never been lacking, ever. That is why I want to publicly, on behalf of the whole Group, to praise all our farmers, all our farmers, all the operators of the agri-food chain, because despite everything, thanks to them, we are continuing to enjoy good Italian food. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] A spirit of sacrifice, however, that, Minister, let me say that it has not been supported worthily in the measures that the Government has taken and, to date, the agricultural companies have received nothing except the promise of simple bank guarantees, not real liquidity, which on the contrary there would be a desperate need. We are talking about a loss of 11% of our GDP. In 2020, a consumption reduction of 3.3% and a worrying 11% of unemployment. Italy will be the most affected country in our area. This dramatic scenario requires us to do something immediately, however, Minister, especially for a fragile sector such as agriculture. She also said that we were already living, as an agricultural sector, plagues such as the Asian bug, the xylella, the frosts, the drought and unfortunately I could continue for a long time. They are companies, therefore, that before the collapse of our economy were already on their knees and that certainly will have a lot of difficulty to access to additional bank credit, even if guaranteed by the state, so the companies already in difficulty will have even more difficulty and will be forced to close. Now more than ever there would be a need to derogate from certain rules, I think for example of Basel, the rating, the DURC, otherwise the words help or support will be distorted in their true meaning. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This does not mean condemning the sector to death, it means even more concretely emptying the supermarket counters of our excellences, an eventuality, Minister that Italy cannot and does not want and that the Government must not allow. But let's come to the proposals of Forza Italia, let's go back to the loans guaranteed by the State. First of all, the duration of six years is too little: what should happen in the six years? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] What should farmers cultivate that would allow them to repay that loan on a regular basis? It would take at least 15 years. Another issue is that of management, which you have addressed, on this issue of loans. SACE does not have the appropriate technical sections and we do not even have the time to train the necessary staff and at this moment it would be useful for Ismea to take care of the whole process, twisting the bureaucracies, because we really have to reach immediacy and speed, which is what we need. There is also an urgent need for extraordinary measures with immediate liquidity, not in the form of bank loans, Minister, but in the form of capital loans for those sectors which you have also mentioned, which have been shocked by this emergency. I am talking about florovivaism, which we have already talked about, which is completely on its knees; about the dairy animal husbandry that, with the closure of bars, pastry shops, restaurants, canteens, has lost an important part of its market; not to mention wine, fishing, the farmhouse, with the activities connected to it (hiking, horseback riding). For these sectors, in addition to the provision of liquidity, it takes the total blocking of tax, social security, tax and banking payments for at least one year. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We need to give them the peace of mind that they can start to gain again, to regain normality. I put an accent on the fruit and vegetable sector. Due to the lack of workers in the harvest, our excellences will remain in the fields and on the trees, with serious environmental economic damage. The job vouchers, which you inexplicably failed, could have helped companies in search of workers on the one hand, and on the other hand to those who need a job, given the situation. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It would have been possible, quickly, to open up to the audience of students, unemployed and pensioners. And again, it would be necessary to postpone the introduction of taxes such as plastic tax and sugar tax and to rethink the taxation of the tobacco sector in order to also give a constant revenue. Another issue is CAP advances. I would remind myself that last year, too, it was possible to anticipate the July-August awards, and I hope that is not what we are talking about, Minister. Would it not have been easier to proceed with the historicity of the securities and enter the payments directly? No questions, no simple questions. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Quickly, Minister, we need to provide liquidity to our businesses. Again, we think it is necessary - you mentioned it yourself - to have a massive communication campaign on consuming Italian and to avoid fake news absolutely, Minister. Unfortunately, we have recently heard that almost the problem of the pandemic was caused by our livestock companies, which produced something that was bad. We cannot admit this: we make a serious communication about how important it is to consume Italian. It is therefore now more than ever necessary to raise awareness among stakeholders, the GDO in the first place, about consuming products made in Italy, with fair pricing policies at sale. On the other hand, we will have to address the problem of the danger of dependence on countries such as the United States and Russia regarding the supply of raw materials, the so-called commodities, necessary for the production of most of our Mediterranean diet products and fundamental ingredients for the food rations of our farms. Why not think now, Minister, of a strategic investment plan in South Italy for the production of these raw materials, in order to meet two central needs? I am referring to the need to make ourselves autonomous from those countries which, for various reasons, could block supplies and to encourage the development of the most climate-friendly areas of the Mezzogiorno, perhaps supported by the latest biotechnology developments on particular varieties. The availability of the Group of Forza Italia has been and continues to exist, since, in dramatic moments such as what we are experiencing, political and social responsibility imposes this. On the other hand, to cooperate, both parties need to be involved. If the opposition proposals are consistent and respond to public needs, we do not understand why they should not be taken into account. For many of the problems highlighted, Minister, there is still time to correct. Give us a hand to help you; let us not continue to take for granted what is not assumed. The food does not come on our tables by magic and you know very well that the farmer and the breeder are the weakest part of the chain. Eisenhower said that agriculture seems very simple when your plow is a pencil and you're a thousand miles from the cornfield; let's get close to those fields and give the agricultural world the right tools to contribute to an all-Italian victory. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u14	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr Bellanova, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on 'technical' data, because the speeches I have heard so far - allow me colleagues - do not correspond to reality. As was clear from the Minister's intervention, there is a strong commitment that this Government is taking to stem the side effects that the coronavirus has had on the economy of our country. Parliament is also doing its part. Just last week we approved in this House the Italian decree-law, which is now before the House. As a well-established practice, the Agriculture Commission has worked taking into account the demands of the political forces present in the Commission. We have tabled amendments in support of the fisheries and agriculture sectors, which have become strategic for the whole nation: the 70% advance and no longer 50% of the CAP, the establishment of a fund of EUR 100 million to protect fisheries and aquaculture, the EUR 50 million increase for 2020 of the fund for the distribution of food to the needy, the EUR 600 allowances for workers and businesses in difficulty. Other measures concerned florovivaism, a sector which, without our intervention, would have been in great difficulty, risking failure. Then there were other measures in the agricultural sector. These interventions are giving a relief to the whole sector at this very difficult time. But the emergency does not stop and, while waiting for the contagion curve to get even closer to zero, it is already necessary to work in advance to phase 2, which will allow the reopening of some companies and businesses. A slow economic recovery, for which the foundations have already been laid by the decree-liquidity law, approved in these days by the Council of Ministers, thanks to which the measures in support of companies, self-employed artisans and professionals, useful to promote the restart of the Italian production system, become immediately operational. The proposals supplementing all these measures, both from me and from the Movimento 5 Stars, will not fail and will not fail. From all the Italian regions there are requests about the general problem represented by the shortage of labour, to which the Minister mentioned extensively in his report, which is taking place and will occur especially in the coming months, in particular for the fruit and vegetable harvest, since the employees of this task, of mainly foreign origin, because of the right security measures will have difficulties to carry out their work. I remember that this is a time of harvest of fruits and drupaceae. We wonder how Minister Bellanova intends to address the issue - even if he has already explained it in part - and with what solutions and if, perhaps, one of these could be, in agreement with the Minister of Labour, to think of engaging in the fields of citizenship income, in the event that there is a reasonable offer of farms, based on the profiles and curricula of these people. There may be no foreclosure of employment under regular employment contracts under the law. The emergency is determining the need to hire new personnel. In this case, more than ever, the creation of regular and qualified new employment could, of course, not be a problem, but an opportunity. The same thing could happen for those who are in the Social Security Fund or for those who receive the monthly unemployment benefit of the new social employment insurance (NASpI), clearly without their loss of support, but perhaps with a suspension. I urge the Government to consider this hypothesis and find the most appropriate way. Another situation to be solved is to allow access to rustic funds - you mentioned this yourself - to owners or holders in order to be able to treat them. We are not talking about professional farmers, settlers or sharecroppers, but about the so-called hobbyists, those simple farmers to whom it would be appropriate to allow them to reach their own plot of land to cultivate and cure them, since from these activities they derive sustenance for their families. The Italian agricultural sector, in fact, has a peculiar characteristic of parcelling of the land property with a substantial share of small farms carried out in their own by people not mainly agricultural or entrepreneurs. Allowing the move from one's residence to the above-mentioned rustic funds would allow to give effect to the work of weeding, fertilization, pruning, irrigation, planting and, therefore, the sustenance with these products of one's own family and, perhaps, also of the neighbor's family, always in full respect of the current legislation and avoiding that all these cultures are abandoned. We should also find a solution to this problem. I would point out that the regions of Sardinia and Tuscany have already sent an amendment to this effect and have allowed these small producers to reach the fund. I mean, this government has devoted a lot of attention to this sector. There are still measures in progress and the strategic nature of agriculture at this time does not allow us to lower our guard because, as I have already said, we must now provide two essential elements: health and food. I thank the Minister for his attention and colleagues. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u17	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for your words, which make this sector very difficult, including, of course, the mountain farming that our Group is following in a special way. I would also like to thank you for the concrete actions you have already taken. For reasons of time, I will focus only on some aspects related to the immediate, in the certainty that there will be other opportunities for comparison on all the other very important aspects that you have touched on. Agriculture is a productive sector that is based on the trend of the seasons and for which it is unthinkable to suspend the production and harvest activity, as you well explained. All this is even more true for the agriculture of the Alpine territories, which operates under more complex and difficult environmental conditions. Just think of the reality of the Valle d'Aosta, which leads our country to have the highest alpine pastures in Europe. The risk, as we all know, is not only that of the economic holding of the supply chain, but also that of the development of prices for consumers and the weakening of the export capacity of the made in Italy. It was important to approve here in the Senate of the amendment that allows farms to obtain in a simplified form from next month and, therefore, before the submission of single questions, an anticipation of CAP resources in the order of 70% of the value of securities in the portfolio. However, the main point is the rapid restart of the sector, of course ensuring the full safety of workers. On these points, we dealt with a series of agendas of our Group to the decree-law care Italy, which, as we hope, will be transformed as soon as possible into specific rules. The urgency, now, is that of the labour force, because of the upcoming harvest season, perhaps through a series of tax and contributory incentives, the recruitment of income recipients of citizenship, pensioners and workers in the Cassa Integrazione. But we must also restart and reopen the flow of agricultural workers, including the realization of the green corridor, to which you have referred, and the promotion of similar initiatives with all the countries of origin of seasonal workers. The shortage of labour is likely to impact dramatically in mountain areas. In order to remedy this, it is also necessary to review the legislation governing those who can help in the collection activity. Just to mention one case, always contained in our amending proposal, such a measure would significantly help the harvest, which in certain territories is defined as activity linked to tradition, without remuneration, carried out for relationships of friendship or kinship with the direct farmer. In this area, where there is no risk in the area of occupational safety, a change in the law could be introduced to increase the degree of kinship from the fourth to the sixth. Minister, we have a difficult season ahead of us. In recent weeks there has been so much talk, quite rightly, about industrial production, trade and the professions, but the real challenge is to ensure that no sector feels forgotten and, perhaps, to put its hands on a number of structural problems in the sector. For agriculture and, in particular, for small businesses, bureaucracy and too many rules, which often do not take account of the extreme diversity of contexts and situations, end up being a real obstacle to the activities of the sector. Let me give you one example. With the latest DPCM, the possibility has been introduced for forest companies to provide normal forest care. It is not clear, however, whether this possibility is extended to private citizens who own wooded areas, to whom some autonomous regions and provinces delegate care and maintenance tasks. It is only the last, in order of time, but I think it makes good the extreme practicality of the problems that concern our territories. Territories in which, let us never forget, agriculture plays an indispensable role as a garrison of the territory, as a fight against depopulation (I add, of the mountain) and as a contrast to the hydrogeological failure. For this, too, we need, and I stress this again, bureaucratic simplification and support for small productions, in a clear regulatory framework that will facilitate the planning of the coming weeks and months. Just as we need all of agriculture, as you have pointed out, to have the aid and support it deserves to support this difficult and complicated phase. It is a strategic sector and it will have to continue to be. Our Group for Autonomies confirms its willingness to collaborate as fruitful as possible. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD and IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u18	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u19	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his words. Thank you for the work that the Government has done in this area (we have also heard critical expressions in the debate). I would like to remind everyone and everyone that we are experiencing an emergency phase and that the agri-food sector, what you have called, with a happy expression, the life chain, has overcome it, or rather, has faced it (because we cannot yet talk about overcoming the emergency phase) with an extraordinary resilience. I believe that we must acknowledge this, not only the representatives of institutions such as yourself, but, above all, the workers and workers, farmers, farmers, the world of distribution, transport, the world of large-scale distribution and small-scale trade. But when the President-in-Office of the Council said that the government is opening up to confrontation with Parliament, we imagined, I am referring to the opposition's friends and colleagues, a very articulate and serious debate on what is ahead of us, and today the Minister has been very detailed and thorough in analyzing the data and results, as well as open to listening to the proposals. There is a question to which opposition and majority together should try to answer: what kind of role will the agri-food world play in post-coronavirus society? I believe that what Teresa Bellanova told us today helps us to think that agriculture is not just a piece of the past, of heartbreaking nostalgia. I say this because a large part of the people who have left us, those about 21,500 deaths that we count today - and that are probably many more and will be more - belong to a generation, the one born in the 1930s or 1940s, which has known the overcoming of peasant civilization. In reality nothing has been overcome, because those values are always strong, but in any case we are talking about a generation that has seen the progressive attack on the values of the agricultural civilization and I would like us to reflect on this: the world of tomorrow will do without those values and that civilization? I don't think so, I think paradoxically what has happened this season can lead us to say that, in Italy of the post coronavirus, the agrifood world will have a fundamental role, but on this we have to play cards discovered. It must be said that there cannot be the usual stereotyped tale of products that from abroad cut space for us, so we must become agro-food sovereignists. In fact, if we are sincere and analyze reality for what it is, we must have the strength to say that, as never before, the post coronavirus will force all and all of us to understand that globalization is the main asset for our agriculture, that globalization is the greatest opportunity we will have, because the products of Italian agro-food are loved and coveted all over the world. The real bet will happen never to fight the fakes who steal market pieces from Italian products, using a fake Italian to be credible in the international market. We must, therefore, unprovince our debate. Of course, then, as Mr Bellanova said, we must fight in Europe because there is a less bureaucratic vision on individual products and I agree, we all agree, both those who reject a stronger idea of Europe, and those who, like me, believe in the United States of Europe. There is a need for a Europe that is less bureaucratic about agricultural policies, there is no doubt, and Minister Teresa Bellanova is working in this direction. The fundamental point, however, is that we do not go anywhere by continuing with the usual refrain of the last twenty years, so agriculture is somehow threatened by the global world. Italian agriculture paradoxically, if helped, if defended, if protected, if supported, is in a position to make us jump and on this I come to the second point, to the second certainty that the coronavirus has questioned. It is not true that technological innovation is an enemy of the values of ancient civilization. We have been used to thinking that technological innovation was an enemy. Look, we've all said it, and I mean, in particular, to which of us is a parent: how many times, seeing our children curved, bent on Instagram or on the device on duty, have we said that in our time there was more human relationship, more discussion, while our children are fixed on social media? It is a question that, in some respects, is right and sacrosanct, because we come from that culture in which we played ball in the square and in which we could share certain moments of much stronger sociality; but there is no doubt that a less ideological and less banal vision leads us to say that coronavirus and post coronavirus show that technological innovation is today a form of support for personal relationships. It's a paradox. We wouldn't have said that two months ago. The revolution we are experiencing, with all the dramas and disasters we have, leads us to say that technological innovation helps the report, it does not replace it - I look forward to coming back to embrace the people I love - but at this stage we must also have this attitude with regard to agriculture. Technological innovation helps the agricultural world, it is not contradictory. The fact that there is a global market of 7 billion people is good for those who - 60 million Italians - can produce extraordinarily good things. That is why - and I turn to the friends of the opposition - we think that the gaze that we must have on the agricultural world must be really tailored to the planet. Then we can confront each other. Some of my colleagues have said the right things, even from the opposition. For example, I am one of those who believes in vouchers and we have demonstrated it, with Minister Bellanova, within the experience of government. I agree that the sugar tax and plastic tax, never as at this time, should be postponed, but I would like, with the same frankness, to recognize reality. The reality is that, on the anticipations of the CAP, the current Government has done much better than the previous one. I would like us all to strive together to say that florivivaism, on which you rightly insisted, is an area for which Minister Bellanova himself, on 15 December, before this pandemic broke out, was in Pistoia, with the operators of the sector, as he did in other parts of the country. So let's set aside for a moment the divisions of the side and try to look at reality for what it is. Today there has been an extraordinary reaction from the agri-food world. There have been doctors and nurses, for whom it is right to pull down the hat. The Forces of Order have been extraordinarily effective. The Italians were good, because to me this story that continues to say that the Italians do not respect the laws seems really very questionable, since the numbers reflect an extraordinary Country: we have even arrived to the obnoxious to see a helicopter chase a runner! We are a country where we have respected the rules and we must stop telling ourselves that we are a country that does not respect them. Beyond this, a sector that has always worked is the chain of life. Thank you, Minister, for what you have done. Thanks to her, but also thanks to the cashier, who welcomed us with a smile, even when the media said that, going to work, we died. I have proposed reopening, and I have been very criticized by this House, too, for this reason. I was told: "You want to kill people!". Imagine how they felt, in those days, those cashiers and clerks, who had to go to work and those haulers, who had to carry the goods. There are objective elements, however, and on this too the reality is stronger than ideology. The issue of immigration certainly sees us on opposing fronts, but there is no doubt that there are hundreds of thousands of people, not numbers, who work or work in our camps and to whom, as Minister Bellanova said in a perfect way, either the state responds or or organised crime responds. Colleagues, I am not telling you what my position is, but I am telling you that this problem exists. Coming to the conclusion, Mr President and Minister, we are at a time when we need a high and true debate. Mr President, we have heard in this House expressions about Mr Bellanova, which are simply vulgar. Go tell each of us "Huh, but you've never entered a farm or a farm!" [[Comments]] denotes the vulgarity of a person, who cannot even contain himself during the interventions of others, and who is represented today in the eyes of the Senate. [[Comments]] Telling, however, to a person who started working as an agricultural worker [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD]] , who started working alongside people who have lost their lives for what happened on the head of government, telling a person like Teresa Bellanova - I am a witness - who spent nights dealing with corporate crises, whatever political color they were, because the corporate crisis brings unemployment and the unemployed is neither red nor black, but is a man who loses his job, telling who, like Teresa Bellanova, has taught us, in these years, what it means to start from scratch to defend the job - this is true for everyone, for those who approve it and for those who contest it, for those who vote for trust and for those who do not vote for it - it is not simply vulgar, but it is the demonstration that in the country we need a serious debate on what work means. I very much agree that there is a need for more liquidity for companies. I am very concerned that the liquidity decree does not give the necessary answers. I am ready to work with everyone and with everyone, to create conditions, for businesses and workers, to overcome this emergency phase. However, we will not allow anyone, in a country that is a democratic Republic based on work, to humiliate or think to do so, to insult or irony over who, working and breaking his back, today makes politics, serving the State and serving the institutions, with competence and consistency, that others, run away from home, do not even know what it means. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u20	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I shall begin my speech with an obviousness. In the Committee on Agriculture, as you know, all the forces in this House are represented, so there is a majority and opposition. However, Mr Minister, with the differences present, we always have one main objective: to put the interests of agriculture and our farmers at the centre. This is an attitude and a method that is not reflected in this Government. I am certainly not referring to the relationship between majority and opposition, which is obvious, but I am referring in particular to the attitude in the cooperation relationship within the same majority. But I'll come back to that later. On the other hand, I would like to make a few points, Minister. I listened carefully to your speech: I listened to what you said and what you did not say. You see, Minister, despite the importance of the agricultural-food sector, the Italian decree on care (at the moment the only measure that has come to Parliament) has not paid the proper attention to agriculture, providing for few measures in this regard, with little resources. You mentioned some of them, including the establishment of a EUR 100 million fund to support agricultural enterprises and the temporary cessation of fishing activities and the increase of the fund for the most deprived by EUR 50 million to ensure the distribution of foodstuffs. It would be easy to tell her that the EUR 50 million of the fund for the most deprived amounts to just over EUR 15 per person, if we report them to the more than 3 million poor estimated, and that the EUR 100 million for the fund for businesses may perhaps cover a few days of the costs for the tens of thousands of farms and fish. The truth is that in this decree-law, of those 25 billion euros made available, agriculture as direct resources came crumbs: less than 0.5 percent, 150-200 million out of the 25 billion allocated. More than cures Italy! Allow me, Minister: for agriculture this is not even an aspirin. We will see if, when the next decrees-laws are converted into law, there will be something more, but at the moment we have this. The Coronavirus crisis is reducing much of the Italian production sector on the pavement, with risks of a contraction of the gross domestic product potentially irreversible. There are, however, some sectors of agriculture (as has already been mentioned) particularly in crisis, for which nothing, in our opinion, has been done. I am referring, for example, to florovivaism, a particularly affected sector. Minister, I come from the territory, I'm a Pistoiese, I'm from the province of Pistoia, where there is, as you know, the most important ornamental plant district in Italy, if not in Europe. This sector will have a dry loss of turnover of over 50 percent in plants and over 70 percent in flowers, on an annual basis: a disaster. If it goes well, these will be the numbers. The sector needs not only resources, but also clear safeguards. I am referring, for example, to the blockade of all the TIRs, which have been stopped at the borders in a presumptuous manner, and to the cancellation of orders. The sector needs concrete actions on the financial side, interacting with the banking system, not to be in debt further - as is proposed in the liquidity decree - but to ensure its portfolio of customers and suppliers. It is necessary to maintain the financial circuit of the supply chain. The same applies to the fruit and vegetable sector: the continuation of the emergency will have serious repercussions due to the change in consumer behaviour and the increasing logistical and linking difficulties with the markets and platforms of the organized large-scale distribution. The most sensitive products are those with the greatest degree of perishability and which the consumer qualifies as not essential. The fruit and vegetable sector already has an instrument that, in crisis situations, allows to withdraw the product from the market by allocating it to free distribution in favour of people in need. Those 50 million of the Fund for the Deprived, which I mentioned earlier, are unfortunately inadequate resources in the face of an emerging situation such as the one we are experiencing. Again, Minister, the milk supply chain, as you know, needs urgent and structural action. The sector has long suffered from considerable difficulties, the most significant of which is the price of milk paid to farmers. The crisis caused by the emergency of the coronavirus has aggravated the situation, with dairy farmers who no longer withdraw milk and those who withdraw it apply very low prices. We hear about reducing production, but this idea does not convince us, because only 75% of the demand is satisfied by national production, so we have to go and influence the import quota. It is true that there is a free market, but we must act with actions aimed at increasing the share of national milk. I believe that you have been informed of the situation in the buffalo chain since the beginning of March (you mentioned this in your report), but it seems to me that the actions in place in this area are currently non-existent. The reality is that almost all dairy farmers have cut the price of milk, reducing it to such an extent that they can no longer even cover their production costs. In the light of this situation, Minister, the sector needs to remove milk from the market, not to store it. Making also a reference to the legality that is very close to your heart, the latest estimates communicated a few days ago have evidenced that there are 3,2 million destitute who should be helped and the last interview of the national anti-mafia prosecutor Federico Cafiero De Raho on Radio24 has evidenced that there are messages and videos of camorristi that offer pasta and food to demonstrate the ability of the mafias to support the weak bands. Precisely in the light of these facts we cannot fail to think of actions capable of producing synergistic multiplicative effects, that is to say that with the same action we intervene on several problems. One of these synergistic actions is to withdraw from the market the milk redundancies that have occurred throughout Italy, to distribute them in the form of a product transformed to the needy, using the national network of associations. We cannot put our guard down on the legal front. Last but not least, let me mention fishing, a sector in serious difficulty but completely forgotten by the government: many pats on the shoulders, but little substance. Let's start paying, Minister, the arrears of the 2017 fisheries stop in 2018, and I'm not sure if there is any leftover from 2016, before promising who knows what in this crisis. However, I understand - and I would ask you to check - that in these hours an INPS circular has also arrived and fishermen are not entitled to EUR 600 like everyone else. Check because it would be a scandal for the sector. In our seas, in a country with more than 8,000 kilometers of coast, there are companies that because of the impossibility to carry out their work for the safety measures (I think of all our Adriatic fleet), without resources and completely abandoned to themselves risk the definitive closure; we allow them at least not to make the stop fishing for the summer season. I should still talk about wine, oil, meat, arable land, but unfortunately time is tyrant, Minister. Finally, let me take one last step on Europe. You, like me, know how important the new common agricultural policy (CAP) is and you know that a reduction in resources and the new rules will penalise our farms. We need strong and determined action, which does not allow the reduction of resources, and an adjustment of the parameters between all the countries of the Union, because different taxations, different protection systems and labour costs create a further penalty in terms of the competition of our national companies. In addition, Minister, act to re-use all the resources of the Rural Development Programmes (RDPs) that many regions have failed to spend. We have seen that this Europe is a stepmother and not a mother to some of its children; we can no longer accept that there is a business committee to govern this Europe with Germany and France; we must be determined to defend our companies and our productive and commercial sovereignty. To do this, Minister, we want to tell the President-in-Office that if he does not work in the dark, if it is true that on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) he has said that he wants to look at the Italians in the face, come here and look at us in the face, let him give himself a mandate to go to the next European Council and submit himself to a parliamentary vote. Look Italy in the face, come here and put every senator and every parliamentary group in front of their responsibilities. In conclusion, Minister, allow me to take up what I said at the beginning of my speech. I wonder how much you can influence this government's choices for agriculture. As Brothers of Italy, during the process of approval of the decree-law care Italy we asked for the re-introduction of vouchers in agriculture, at least for the period of the crisis; as you know, this request was rejected. It is understandable not to accept the opposition's proposals, but then do not come and ask for cooperation. This was a request from the whole agricultural world, which I understand is also made by your party, as your leader has just confirmed, and shared by you. The decree-law care Italy has been approved, but the vouchers are not there. The last issue concerns seasonal labour. Let it be clear that we are not against immigration, but against those who want to enter Italy in an illegal way and that on lawlessness plans his stay in our country. Therefore, international agreements providing for well-defined flows, especially on the health side, and the entry of skilled labour, are welcome. What we do not want and do not share is a real sanatorium for those in our country in an illegal way; we cannot think of solving this problem with the excuse of the workforce in agriculture. Mr Minister, draw your conclusions, be consistent with your political history and your personal path; take a strong and determined position in favour of agriculture, in Rome and Brussels, and you will find support in us, otherwise you will not have the esteem of the world of agriculture. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u22	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u23	Mr President, Minister, I very much appreciated your work at this dramatic time for our country - I am not saying this out of whining, because I am not satisfied - and I thank you for being a real bastion for the agricultural sector. There are many things that should still be done, but I have to admit that the actions you have taken in this respect, both in relation to the intercourse you did in the Council of Ministers at a difficult time, and in relation to the positions you have taken at international level, have led to excellent results. I hope that after the emergency the debate will extend even more effectively to relaunch the sector after the emergency even in the competent committees of Parliament which, as you have heard, are very much in favour of dialogue for agriculture. Many lines of credit have been opened in favour of farms, also to be thanked, together with the workers who have been heroic in allowing a constant and continuous supply of food - which was not taken for granted during this period - that will certainly support the recovery. Minister, I would also like to thank you for the protection of Made in Italy, which you have supported with many support campaigns and with the protection plan, which have silenced, even at international level, those unpleasant conjectures that were causing damage to the good name and the image of our excellences. It is also very welcome the extension until 31 December 2021 of the decrees concerning the indication of the origin of the raw material prevailing on milk, cheese, durum wheat in semolina paste, rice and processed tomato. These measures are important: they seem small, but they are very important because they allow the conscious consumption, by consumers, of the real made in Italy. I hope that this is a battle that we will carry on until the end of the parliamentary term. Minister, however, I invite you in the European Parliament to monitor more closely the negotiations on the free trade treaties: an important issue. Let us not forget that the coronavirus emergency comes from the poor management of wildlife in Asian markets, which has probably favored the leap of species. Therefore, I invite you to move towards trade relations with non-EU countries not so much at the maximum price drop, but upwards for health, food and labour protection. I think we're gonna have to review the dynamics of liberalism that brought us all this way. Personally, I express satisfaction with the arrival of the measures on forestry, which saw a direct interlocation between me and the Minister, which was really valuable in this field, which included in the urgent activities allowed those related to the code Ateco 02, which had incomprehensiblely remained outside the novero of the activities considered, with the risk of increasing the summer fires because of the impossibility of the logging already cut - it is not yet to be cut - lying in the woods. There was a risk of depriving wood-burning ovens of a raw material necessary for their operation. Let us not forget that bread has been very important in this period. We also appreciate the EUR 50 million allocated to food for the poorest and the speed at which the decree already lodged with the Court of Auditors was set up, which, among other things, only includes Italian products: this is also a very important detail. Access to food must also continue outside emerging situations. I remember that only on 31 January the UN special rapporteur for the right to food visited in our country had indicated that our economy was the third in Europe, but that however the levels of poverty and insecurity in Italy were not acceptable. I'm sure the Minister will take this matter to heart. Before the pandemic I had pointed out these demands both in the Human Rights Commission and in the Agriculture Commission. We appreciate the opportunity to bring out undocumented foreigners, seen not only because of the lack of labour, but also because, dear members of the opposition, having people without documents and not traceable at a pandemic moment is something definitely not desirable. Moreover, the recruitment of new workers should ensure tax and contributory income. One aspect I very much care about - and I invite the Minister to consider - is the following: we know that the mafia is infiltrating various sectors, the total turnover of agromafias, in 2018, was EUR 24.5 billion and we imagine that the agri-food sector will not be free from this set-up. The commitments to discuss the draft Law Caselli on agromafie have so far been only verbal. Several texts were deposited in the Senate and Minister Bonafede undertook to incorporate some rules into a decree before the pandemic. So I would invite the Minister to take charge of the introduction of this bill into some existing decree. The last point is subsistence farming. The Minister mentioned her, and I'm glad she took care of her. Some regions have already issued ordinances in this sense, but I hope that this mode will be extended to the whole of the national territory. Finally, I want to make a small criticism of the Phase II task force. I announce that, together with my colleagues, Mr Nugnes, Mr De Falco and Mr Di Marzio, we will present an interrogation in this regard. There is no cure and no prediction of an economic revival of agriculture. If, on the one hand, this can be considered a flaw, I am very critical of the creation of task forces, but I hope that it is a good thing and that the Minister will take the task of consulting both Parliament and the experts to propose a revival of agriculture. It means that on this issue there will be a Minister with full capacity to act together with Parliament and the social representatives, so I really invite you to take over the relaunch of agriculture even in a possible task force. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u24	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u25	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive and comprehensive report on the work that the Government is doing at this stage to deal with the social and economic situation we are going through. I also greatly appreciated your reference to the food supply chain as a chain of national interest, because I firmly believe that this is true and I believe it is essential that this great truth is always present in all the acts of government put in place. The agricultural world already came from a complicated situation. It was also said in his initial speech. We had the story of the Asian bug, which brought devastation and all the climatic adversities that preceded the Covid story, downloading on the whole sector in general, but above all on the productions of more perishable and fresh goods, situations of truly unique complexity. We do not remember such a strong sector crisis landscape. It has already been said before: all the freshest and most perishable products, from floricultural products to fresh milk products, fishery products, products related to the tourism and catering industry have suffered insane shocks with the loss, very often, as in the case of the flower supply chain, even of 70% of the production that, unfortunately, was concentrated in this period. That has already been said by my fellow Members, so I will not repeat it. I therefore believe that responding to these sectors is essential not only for agriculture, but for the whole economic and territorial sector that is centred around this sector. First of all, I think it is right - it has already been done by some Members - to say that some important things have been done. You have rightly claimed and quoted the list of measures taken and I think it is good to say, apart from normal measures, that the extension of the obligation to indicate the origin of the products and the extension of the indication of origin on the label to processed pigmeat is an important step and was not at all obvious. I think it is good to say that the work done for the closure of all the conditions for intervention for the Asian bug, which has taken place over the past few weeks, is an epochal passage that the whole agricultural world was waiting for. I think it is important to say that the anticipation of the CAP at 70%, especially with those procedural simplifications that the measure provides for, was not at all taken for granted and is not at all comparable to what happened until last year. I think it is also good to talk about the resources allocated, but above all about the resources planned for the next measure. In this measure we concentrated what could be included, given the limited resources to which we had to refer. It is an important measure for agriculture because it provides for a myriad of bureaucratic-administrative and procedural simplifications, which have been greatly appreciated by the agricultural world. I think it is important to reiterate that we expect, in the next decree, the answer, in economic terms, to all those areas already mentioned by my colleagues. I believe that on this - let me stress this - the time for authorisation procedures will be crucial. Turning quickly to the conclusions, many Members have already listed the points on which we will have to speak. I would just like to make two final points. On the subject of work in agriculture and labour, I believe that the path you have outlined is absolutely in the right direction. It would probably be appropriate to give further attention to the ways in which the issue of offering the possibility to all those who are now the subject of support measures to be able to use them in agriculture with very simplified procedures and procedures. I would like to make one point on this subject. The question of time will be crucial: we need to know clearly, in the next few days, what measures can be used, because this will enable farms to organize themselves. The first collections are imminent and the issue becomes absolutely fundamental. I just remember that the extension of the residence permits, medical visits, the facilities for the mountain are already in this provision that in the next few days will be converted by the House. On the subject of the fight against the caporalate, I would like to stress the fundamental importance of the road which, with the launch of the plan put on the ground in recent weeks, has been taken. In this regard, I would like to make two points. The first is that the procedures that will be identified for the interventions, for example, in favour of those companies or those realities that will equip premises for the reception, as provided for in the agreement, must be simple. On the whole story of the caporalate I think it is necessary to always have clear that the need to contain the wrongdoers and the dishonest must not in an unmanageable way complicate life to the honest and the correct. This must be a fundamental point of reference. Finally, I note that in Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 there is a first rule on unfair practices that gives a delegation to the Government. I believe that in this case too the delegation must be exercised by your Ministry and the Government, because unfortunately we have seen, in recent days and weeks, that there have been attempts at unfair behavior within the agricultural chains. Everything that goes in the direction of... [[the microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u26	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u27	TARICCO (PD). I'll finish quickly. A final point (already mentioned by some of my colleagues): use the cooperation of the Commissions. As my opposition colleagues have already said, in the Agriculture Committee this year and a half of work we have had the capacity to work together for the good of agriculture. It is true that agriculture is worth only 2.5-3 percent of GDP, but, if we consider the induced, in certain territories it is even 15%. It can really be an engine and a development flywheel: let's put it in the field. Our willingness to work with her and to work with her is all there is. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u28	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u29	Mr President, Minister, I too begin by saying goodbye to the farmers and operators of the sector, those who rose early this morning and went to the stables or fields, those who work in fruit and vegetables, in nursery and in all our huge sector. Those who have not been able to stop their work, guaranteeing us food on the table, those who are suffering at the moment, because health and safety are also a fundamental fact for them; occupational safety, food safety, guarantee of hygiene and quality of the product. They are very welcome: they are doing well, regardless of what we do towards them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Minister, you told us that in the Committee on Agriculture. Among other things, I remind you that you still have to answer our questions, which probably lie in some drawer. You had made a 27-page report, which I have well in mind; many things have remained unfinished, someone has put them back in the pipeline today for the future. But remember to return to the Joint Chamber and Senate Commissions to answer our questions in November; it is important for us from a technical point of view. You said earlier that you listen to us very carefully, because you want to understand what our needs are. I will tell you now: as far as flowering is concerned, what happened to the activation of the national fund for compensation on the gross saleable production of bad products? The request to anticipate the biological detention for fishing and compensation for fishermen? As far as the wine sector is concerned, beyond the workforce (we all talk about labour, but then we return), have you posed the problem of the unsold that lies in the cellars, considering that in five months there will be a new harvest? We're gonna fix this, aren't we? CAP advances are crucial, including for 2020, even in the immediate future. I would like to take up what a senator has just said before me: the times are crucial, Minister. Anticipating the liquidations, suspending the controls of Agea (which we will then follow in the next few years), means giving immediate liquidity to our farmers, to our small farms, which otherwise will have to go through the farragic mechanism of the decree cure Italy or the decree liquidity, that is, they will be forced to close the activity before seeing some resource for liquidity arrive. Please, Minister, let us take action and take a real step in time, because this is fundamental. The food supply chain deserves support; you said so, Minister, and I recognise that. But the facts tell something else. We have proposed - as Senator Vallardi said earlier, which I thank for the work he is doing in the Commission, together with us and the former Minister Gian Marco Centinario - very clearly and transparently vouchers for students, for those who are graduating, for university students, for pensioners, for those who receive citizenship income. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us change this legislation and return to what it was at the beginning, because vouchers are fundamental and you know it. I do not say that she does not go to the fields and does not go to the stables; I do not care about that. But you know that times and ways are also related to meteorology. I can't tell you that tomorrow I'll have peaches picked up, because if it rains tomorrow, I won't pick them up, but I've already set the voucher and I can't count it. This is fundamental; it is the working mechanisms that help companies. You said in response that you want to regularise immigrants. We say first our Italians, who are at home; instead you say no, first the illegals. This is not good for us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If we can work in a fair and sustainable way for businesses, we can get the Italians to work. We asked her for a fund of one billion euros for florovivaism, which was written by her offices, by authoritative executives of her offices. You have proposed a fund of EUR 250 million, but I say to you that, even if put in black and white, there is nothing to date; indeed, these poor people of florovivaism have to pay to dispose of their goods that they cannot sell. This is very serious! [[Applause]] We must also tell the Italians who are listening to us. I would like to mention one more important issue: I would also have many others on pig farming, the ham market and the loss of money in this important sector, but I would like to return to one subject. Minister, it strikes your silence in the face of the instrumental use of some television broadcasts broadcast on the public service that throw discredit on our farmers assuming a link between the management of the effluents of the stables of the farms and the spread of the virus. Agriculture and animal husbandry are not a primary source of pollution; they are part of the solution to the problem thanks to the giant steps taken over the years in terms of sustainability and innovation. On this issue we, as a League, have put a question in the RAI Supervisory Committee, but I also ask you to say something because it is important and the whole sector is expecting it. With regard to the Ateco codes, it was right to include forestry among the last introduced, but remember that there is one fundamental missing: the production of agricultural machinery at an industrial level. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Minister, do you know that agricultural machinery traders are doing contracts with Germany because the Ateco code in Germany is open and in Italy they will not buy agricultural machinery because our producers are stopped? They want to work, they send questions to the prefectures, the prefecture sends them to the Finance Guard for checks and consequently they cannot work because they have not given permission. Minister, please intervene now. I remind you that on September 5 of last year, swearing before the Head of State and the Italian people, you undertook to perform your duties in the exclusive interest of the nation. I remind you that the nation is Italy; we take care of Italian interests. The transparency of imports of low quality milk coming from abroad is crucial. We must see those numbers; we must make them public, otherwise our farmers will not receive 33 cents per litre, as is the case today, but 25 cents. Minister, that is why I say to you: always before Italian farmers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u31	Mr President, Minister and colleagues, someone in the agricultural sector has a bucolic idea, almost free from an existential crisis, so calls for help can be ignored or neglected. It is enough to think of the lack of reception of their products by the catering and hotel facilities or of the difficulty of finding labour (in the emergency situation people are able to do so, I think, for example, of those who have been granted citizenship income). Action should be taken with the political authorities of the countries on the border with Italy whose border controls have become exasperating. This increases the costs and this behaviour falls short of the European precept of the European Union which concerns the free movement of goods. The pandemic emergency from Covid-19 has caused further obvious crises in all Italian production sectors and has not spared the agri-food sector, its productions and, among them, the one related to Italian excellence. In fact, in the Campanian territory and not only, as already mentioned, the closure of restaurants and the absence of tourist flow have caused a significant decrease in the consumption of all agricultural products. I would like to focus on the decline in the consumption of buffalo mozzarella, which has brought the whole chain to its knees and which risks undermining an economic, social and employment reality of high importance. The Bufalin chain, including the entire induced, provides employment to about 20,000 people in the region with a high unemployment rate. The survival of the entire chain will depend on the interventions that will be put on the field by the Government. In particular, the crisis has caused the lack of transformation of 300,000 quintals of buffalo milk that, to date, lie in freezers, with an estimated economic loss, for freezing costs and lower dairy yield for processors, to 8 million euros. The crisis, which has invested mainly in small processing realities, has favoured the reduction of the price to the stable, quantifiable in about 0.3 euros per kilogram of milk, for a total of about 600,000 quintals of milk: this is equivalent to a loss, for the breeders, of about 18 million euros. In order not to damage, Minister, one of the supply chains with a high territorial impact would be appropriate to provide for State aid that can be quantified at EUR 26 million. In the Committee on Agriculture, we have addressed, through an in-depth survey, all the criticalities of the buffalo chain. The final document is for your attention, Minister, and I hope that answers will soon come. To conclude, I believe that we need to be shared by the majority. She herself, a moment ago, spoke of this complex and articulated audience. I hope that you also take account of what is proposed by the opposition, because it is a tragic and tragic moment; all we need is to work together. Meanwhile, in order to give expected answers to a world that works day and night, that knows no festivities, there is a need for simple measures, without the tyranny of procedures, the tangle of compliances, the elusive location of responsibilities and bureaucratic certifications without head or tail. I hope this will happen. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and LP-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u32	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u33	Dear President, Minister, colleagues, the Covid-19 pandemic forced hundreds of millions of Europeans to stay at home. The countryside is in serious danger of not having sufficient treatment in the spring, precisely during the harvest period, as we have all rightly pointed out. Agriculture, in Italy, is worth 32 billion euros and this value is falling. So it is a wake-up call that needs to be monitored: 2.2% of GDP and 5% of the total employed. In place of pleasant days to devote to agricultural work, instead of seasonal agricultural work, the coronavirus has arrived. Thus, fruit risks hanging from trees, vegetables and cereals in the soil: food that serves to feed millions of men and animals, billions that risk vanishing into a virus, throwing a million families into misery. Our farmers continue passionately with their honourable work, which we have always given credit for the precious fruits. The situation, however, is unsustainable because of the shortage of seasonal workers, mostly immigrants, who until yesterday were more willing to work in the fields. We have just heard from the Minister's voice that he will not expect it without taking action to reopen the borders, but that it is necessary to find an alternative solution, perhaps looking at those almost 600,000 irregular immigrants, an army that is potentially at the mercy of organized crime. At this moment, in Italy there are 90,000 people sleeping in the ghost city of laborers, where the law of the mafia applies. In those places, the sanitary and hygienic conditions are not respected, there is no measure of distance. Some examples are right in my province, as many as eight in the land of Capitanatata. Among the largest centres, the slum that rises near the former CARA of Borgo Mezzanone and the so-called Gran ghetto, located in the countryside between San Severo and Rignano Garganico. All unhealthy places. I agree that it is urgent to find accommodation for these people in order to avoid the gatherings, perhaps setting up disused farmhouses or new guest houses, such as the one activated at the farm in the Apulia region, in Fortore, a structure that includes air-conditioned housing modules, with sanitation and canteen service. Sadly well known is also the fact that 50 percent of farm workers in Italy work in black, too often through the network of the caporalate. It is essential to establish a database of the farms they hire and of the workers available to respond to the current shortage of labour. Irregular work and agricultural leadership is a business worth 5 billion euros; agromafie business is an illegal business according only to that of drugs. 47 percent of the laborers are non-EU; then, there are the invisible, over 100,000 people. Needless to say, these are workers who are severely exploited: no protection and no guaranteed rights, and we cannot pretend not to see them. The phenomenon of the caporalate is primarily solved by prevention, as well as by vigilance and contrast. The counter-agency plan at the head of the Ministry of Labour is certainly one of the strongest tools put in place in recent years to combat what is a real social scourge. A socio-working reintegration of all those working in the fields, beyond the country of origin, is needed. Our mission must be to see all workers under the protective hat of agricultural collective agreements. Prices for producers will rise a little: in addition to being right, it is a necessary heat to pay to be able to define us a civil country. Producers are not collecting their products, not only because they lack labour, but also because prices are too low. Indispensable is to implement decisive and concrete actions aimed at transparency of contracts and fair market practices. The Commission is debating a draft law for these very purposes, which I hope will soon see its application. The domain of large-scale distribution has imposed prices on farmers below cost, forcing them to produce at lower costs, all to the detriment of wages and protection. This restart offers the opportunity to call the whole system into question. To do this, we must realise that there are four actors at the agricultural fair: producers, workers, distributors and consumers. The latter perhaps have the greatest specific weight: it has appeared clear to everyone, with the battle won on palm oil, that consumers, more than anyone else, can impose their rules even on the very powerful food distribution. A sustainable agri-food supply chain will only exist if consumers are made aware, perhaps by means of an ethical seal to be applied to all products, a bottle that signals the traceability of the supply chain, which takes into account respect for the environment and respect for workers, because consumers must become aware consumers and producers must be paid at the right price and so workers. We must restore the dignity of farms and the price of products must be indicated by producers, not by large-scale retailers. The price must take account of labour costs. The Covid-19 emergency is giving us another great teaching: the production chains too long make the economy unstable and the survival of a society at risk, as we are experiencing in recent weeks. Too many products depend on what happens in other countries and on the efficiency of large trade routes. If Italy had been less dependent on the rest of the world, the backlash generated by the pandemic would have been lower. Today we are realizing, by touching hands, how important it is to develop, encourage and believe in zero kilometre agriculture. Dear Minister, the headlights are focused not only on the agriculture sector, but also and above all on our Made in Italy, on our DNA, on our passion, on our work. Albert Einstein said that major emergencies offer great possibilities. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u34	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, whom I thank for his willingness. I would remind you that I have already convened the Conference of Leaders, which will be held in the Koch Room. I suspend the session, which will resume at 13:30 with the information of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Catalfo. (The sitting was suspended at 11.47 a.m. and resumed at 13.38 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u35	The next item is: Information by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on initiatives under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to address the epidemiological emergency of the Covid-19. I call the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the emergence of an emergency linked to the spread of coronavirus, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has been primarily engaged, as far as its competence is concerned, in the study of appropriate and necessary measures to limit its impact on the world of work and workers. A fruitful dialogue began immediately with the social partners to understand how to support businesses and workers, ensuring that the progressive blocking of activities, which became necessary to stem the spread of the virus, did not become deflagrant for the system. Already by Decree-Law No 9 of 2 March 2020 the first income support measures were put in place for those workers who had to stop their activities due to the closure of companies, factories and shops dictated by the emergency measures taken by the Government. This decree-law was limited to those territories already defined as the Red Zone. Due to the expansion of the virus, these measures were then extended to the whole national territory by Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, which in Articles 19, 20, 21 and 22 provides for interventions related to: ordinary wage integration fund; ordinary insurance fund for companies that are in extraordinary cash integration; ordinary cheque of the wage integration fund; ordinary cheque of bilateral funds provided for in Articles 26 and 27 of Legislative Decree No 148 of 2015 and bilateral solidarity funds of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano and Trentino-Alto Adige provided for by the same legislative decree the special insurance fund for workers and permanent employees of agricultural enterprises; the integration fund as a derogation. Finally, the decree-law introduced, among other measures, some allowances in favour of workers whose activities are affected by the epidemiological emergency due to the Covid-19: I refer in particular to compensation, quantified in 600 euros for the month of March, in favour of professionals and collaborators with a coordinated and continuous collaboration relationship, self-employed workers enrolled in the special managements of compulsory general insurance (AGO), seasonal workers in tourism and bathing establishments, workers in the agricultural and entertainment sector, sports workers. In order to safeguard as much as possible the audience of workers affected by the current pandemic, the rule established the Income Fund of last resort in favour of employees and self-employed persons not covered by the previous allowances, part of which was also intended for professionals enrolled in the private pension funds. With the decree-law care Italy we have protected almost 19 million workers. Before entering into the details of numbers and procedures and understanding the impact of the measures I have just outlined, I would like to remind you that alongside them there have been suspensions of all the terms related to working procedures, from those of the submission of applications for agricultural unemployment, to those for the application of Naspi, the unemployment benefit Dis-coll, from the decadent ones in the field of social security and welfare to all the terms in the matter of patrons and third sector; moreover, the deadlines for the payment of social security contributions and welfare contributions have been suspended and at the same time the duration of the periods of forfeiture relative to the requests for benefits provided by INAIL has been frozen. It has been decided to suspend, without prejudice to the use of economic benefits, cross-compliance measures linked to income support instruments. An indispensable preface, which does not want to be an excusatio of unjustified accusations and destitute of any foundation and above all evidence known to the entire institutional political panorama, and of the world of work all, is that we have been faced with an emergency never known before in the world of work having to rely on regulatory and procedural tools vetusti, farraginosis, not in step with the times. It was necessary to refer to a system of social shock absorbers built with logics of difficult application, based on institutions that seem to overlap and that at times seem not to cover the whole panorama of situations that can arise and that must be supported. It is a system of social shock absorbers that is a priority understanding of this Government to review, improve, implement and rebuild, but that at the moment, given the extraordinary emergency, had to and must work immediately and at the best. The demands of the world of work could not wait for a restructuring of the system of social shock absorbers and the idea of a single shock absorber, although it was evaluated by me, could not be the solution to which to resort in a few days, as it would have been necessary a reform of all the information systems, as well as management, that would have taken at least two months. The large public investment put in place to finance social shock absorbers and support workers' income necessarily imposes procedures and checks of the assumptions that, although efficient and simplified, cannot be completely bypassed even by the most harmful of emergency situations. However, despite the cumbersome nature of the system, the Ministry of Labour has put in place a narrow mesh mesh of measures, using the current rules but slimming down procedures, simplifying compliance and trying to make it easy to access the benefits and collect them. These measures, as mentioned earlier, are as follows. Firstly, the ordinary earnings fund and the ordinary allowance in favour of companies operating under reduced conditions due to the pandemic. The application shall be submitted by means of a simplified procedure with the causality of the In particular, employers are exempted from complying with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Legislative Decree No 148 of 2015 and from the time limits laid down for the application. This is without prejudice to the need for information, consultation and joint examination, which must also be carried out by electronic means within three days following that of communication or suspension, so in a much faster way than in the current legislation. The measures may be granted for periods starting from 23 February 2020 for a maximum duration of nine weeks and in any case by August 2020. Such processing periods shall not be counted for the purposes of the duration limits laid down in the applicable legislation and shall be neutralised for the purposes of subsequent requests. The benefits are recognised with an appropriation of EUR 1,347.2 million. In conjunction with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MEF), the decree was adopted to allocate resources to the bilateral funds of crafts and administration referred to in Article 27 of the Italian Decree-Law on care. Secondly, there is the possibility, for companies which already have special cash benefits and solidarity allowance treatment provided by the Wage Integration Fund, to suspend them and replace them with ordinary treatments, always for a maximum duration of nine weeks. In this case, we have provided that the periods of treatment of ordinary wage integration fund are not counted for the purposes of the limits of duration provided for by the current legislation and do not determine the payment of the related additional contribution. Again, the procedure has been simplified: the benefits for the ordinary wage integration treatment for companies already in CIGS are recognised with an allocation of € 338.2 million. Thirdly, there is a derogation fund for employers in any sector (including agricultural, fisheries and third sector) who, although operating under reduced conditions due to the pandemic, are excluded from the application of the protection provided for in the existing provisions on the suspension or reduction of working time. Also in this case, the exemption fund has a duration of nine weeks subject to trade union agreement. This agreement is not required for employers employing up to five employees. Treatments are granted by decree of the Region or of the Autonomous Province to be transmitted to the INPS in telematic mode within 48 hours of adoption, together with the list of beneficiaries, within the limits of the resources allocated to each Autonomous Region or Province. In this regard, it is noted that the resources for the measure are equal to 3,293 million euros, which have been broken down by interministerial decree labor-MEF 1,293 billion euros and that in the next few days will be issued the second and last decree of allotment that will assign, as a result of the profitable comparison with all the Regions, the remaining resources. We have therefore provided for special rules on reducing working time and supporting workers as a result of the suspension of educational services for children and educational activities of schools of all order and grade. Specific parental leave and allowances for parents are recognised as employees, public and private, self-employed and exclusively members of separate management. They are entitled, for children up to 12 years of age, to specific parental leave for a period not exceeding a total of 15 days for which an allowance equal to 50% of the remuneration is awarded. These periods are covered by figurative contributions and are additional to the ordinary parental leave scheme. The taking of leave shall be granted alternately to both parents, provided that there is no other parent in the household who is receiving income support in the event of suspension or termination of employment or another non-worker unemployed parent. For children with disabilities in a serious situation, there are no age limits for taking leave. As an alternative to the take-up of the special leave, the possibility is recognized to take advantage of the payment of a bonus for the purchase of babysitting services in the maximum total limit of 600 euros, elevated to 1,000 euros for the employees of the health sector, public and private accredited, as well as for the employees of the State Police, for the personnel of the security sector, defense and public assistance employed for the epidemiological emergency. All provisions apply also to foster parents. For the above-mentioned benefits, relating to private employees and members exclusively of separate management, self-employed and self-employed, EUR 1,261 million was allocated for the year 2020, while for public employees and employees in the health sector or the State Police, EUR 30 million was allocated for the year 2020. In the same direction, there is an increase of a further twelve days, which can be used in March and April 2020, of a paid permit and covered by a figurative contribution under Law 104 of 1992 for disabled workers and for the care of disabled family members. The above twelve additional days are then added to the three monthly permits provided, becoming equal to eighteen total days for the two months mentioned. Equalisation of the period spent in quarantine with the disease has also been envisaged and, for public and private employees with severe disabilities or immunodepressed or cancer patients, the period of absence from the service is treated as hospitalisation. A series of allowances for March 2020, amounting to EUR 600, are also provided for certain categories of workers. Such allowances do not contribute to the formation of taxable tax income, are not cumulative and do not belong to citizens' income recipients. The allowance shall be granted by the INPS upon application to the self-employed, including commercial agents, to the holders of coordinated and continuous cooperation reports registered for separate INPS management, not pensioners and not members of other compulsory first-pillar social security schemes, to the self-employed, craftsmen and traders enrolled in the INPS special management, seasonal workers in tourism and thermal baths, fixed-term agricultural workers, entertainment workers and sports workers. We have also provided for provisions which, in view of the epidemiological emergency, introduce extended deadlines, suspension of procedures and derogations from existing legislation in this area. Special rules on collective and individual redundancies are introduced. In particular, for sixty days from the date of entry into force of the decree under consideration, the start of collective dismissal procedures is precluded; proceedings initiated after 23 February 2020 are suspended and, as regards individual dismissals, the employer is prohibited - regardless of the number of employees - from withdrawing from the contract for justified objective reason. Finally, the residual measure, called the income fund of last resort, is intended to ensure income support measures for employees and self-employed persons who, as a result of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, have ceased, reduced or suspended their activity or their employment relationship and who cannot benefit from the above-mentioned special income support measures. The fund, set up in the estimates of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, aims to guarantee employees and self-employed workers the recognition of an allowance with a funding of EUR 300 million for 2020, according to criteria and methods of allocation assigned to one or more decrees of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The decree, already adopted, sets the share of the limit of expenditure to be allocated in exceptional way to the income support of the registered professionals to the institutions under private law of compulsory pension. With this framework of measures to be implemented, the Minister of Labour was also obliged to undertake a variety of activities with the INPS, first of all, aimed at detailing and verifying the administrative procedures for the release of different income support. By order of the Head of the Civil Protection Department of 19 March 2020, on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, it was also arranged, with a view to ensuring health for citizens, to stagger the possibility of withdrawing pension treatments in advance. In addition, dialogue and dialogue with the social partners was constant and fruitful and led, in the night between 13 and 14 March, to the signing of an important protocol regulating measures for the contrast and containment of the spread of the virus in the working environments, which will also be useful for the upcoming reopenings. They were then evaluated, developed, revised and then issued together with the Institute of Circular Welfare and messages for users who, in the immediate publication of the decree-law, could initiate applications and submit requests. I will not list them in detail for reasons of time, but I will leave the full list to the record. This is a total of nine circulars and 13 messages from 12 March 2020. Different opinions on the interpretation of the rules have also been made available to other administrations and all procedures for issuing administrative acts have been speeded up. The INPS has worked hard on continuous and constant impulse of the Ministry of Labour. It is necessary for the country to know that everything possible has been done to speed up and simplify procedures. The Ministry that I represent and the supervised bodies, in the last few weeks, have not stopped from the institutional activity in order to carry out the mission to render the best service to all the citizens in difficulty. From this point of view, an agreement was also reached between ABI and the social partners signed by the banks on the night of 30-31 March for the advance of cash-integration treatment by the banks. As Minister, I have maintained and maintained the relationship with the Regions, in order to allocate the resources allocated to the Integration Fund by way of derogation and to facilitate the dialogue and institutional communications between the Regions themselves and the INPS. The procedure for granting the cash by way of derogation provides that the Regions acquire the applications and send them to the INPS for payment purposes. In this respect, in order to allow you to have a more appropriate reading of the state of payment of the supplementary fund by way of derogation, I will explain the data relating to the transmission of these applications to the Institute. I will list them for decrees sent, which of course collect the number of workers going to cash-in and the date of transmission: Emilia-Romagna 1,217 broadcasts, last broadcast on 10 April 2020; Veneto 10 broadcasts, last broadcast on 10 April 2020; Abruzzo transmission, last transmission on 14 April 2020; Basilicata 59 transmissions, last transmission on 9 April 2020; Campania 4,186 transmissions, last transmission on 9 April 2020; Friuli-Venezia Giulia 114 transmissions, last transmission on 10 April 2020; Lazio 9,055 broadcasts, last broadcast on 10 April 2020; Marche 2,666 transmissions, last transmission on 14 April 2020; Molise one transmission, last transmission on 8 April 2020; Piedmont 12 transmissions, last transmission on 10 April 2020; Puglia 578 broadcasts, last broadcast on 10 April 2020; Tuscany 82 broadcasts, last broadcast on 7 April 2020; Umbria 40 broadcasts, last broadcast on 9 April 2020. To these is added the Lombardy, which a couple of hours ago sent 35 decrees, dated 16 April 2020. There are still missing the acts of some regions, which I am sure will arrive in the next hours and in the next days. In this context, the INPS was faced with massive flows of activity which, generously, led from the outset. I keep - given the facts and given the requests for information received about what happened on 1 April, with the temporary blackout of the website of the Institute and the IT support services - to provide some clarifications and highlight some passages that cannot be implied, in order to guarantee the country maximum transparency. In this regard, on 1 April the Ministry of Labour asked the Institute for a detailed report on the procedures adopted for implementing the government's regulatory measures. The INPS reports that it is a public administration and that, as it has communicated to the Ministry of Labour, for the protection of the maximum health of its employees has decided to place their staff in smart working and has had to manage the emergency environment using the contractual tools already in its availability. The report shows that in this context the Institute immediately allocated new processing resources to support existing ones, both on the front-end of the Internet portal and on the applications servers of the back-end with databases dedicated to procedures. The upgrades have led to the doubling of the processing capacity of INPS infrastructure and at the same time the Internet connectivity has been increased by 500 percent compared to the beginning of the year, also to cope with the burden of employees in agile work and staff in remote support. The technological infrastructure of the Institute, designed for institutional activities with high computational capacity, with thousands of servers distributed over multiple data centers, which provide all institutional services, including that of the portal, has been targeted in the last few weeks of attacks from the outside, which are called in technical term "DDoS." These attacks were brought to the attention of the prosecutor of the Republic by formal act of complaint on 3 April 2020 and imposed, among the most urgent interventions, the blocking of IP addresses from some countries. Since the beginning of my mandate as Minister, for the amount of data and measures that the Institute is required to manage, I have asked that the INPS be given the opportunity to reinvest in computer science, in order to cope with the amount of requests and work to which INPS is called. I believe that this is still necessary. Entering in the specific of the measures adopted in the so-called decree cure Italy, from what emerges from the relationship that the Institute has provided us, for the latter it was necessary to activate an alternative operating mode to the ritual in order to meet the requests of the users and to quota the times, having to disposition little more than ten days between the emanation of the decree and the date identified as starting of the service. In the current contracts, based on information received from INPS, the Institute opted for Microsoft's technological offering, which, in the field of services, offers a content distribution service based on its own technology, i.e. Akamai technology, the market leader. In addition to the cloud service, Microsoft has also provided all the professional resources needed to configure the target environment. INPS has emphasized that the predisposition of the technological environments represents only an aspect of the supply of the services demanded from the decree care Italy. In the aftermath of the publication of the decree was undertaken, moreover, the administrative analysis with all the competent directions of product, realizing in sharing a series of requirements functional to the realization of the level of application. In view of the fact that the new services introduced by the Decree-Law presupposed access exclusively in telematic mode through the use of credentials already in the possession of users, the Institute was faced with the following considerations: many potential beneficiaries of the services could not have been in possession of access credentials (PIN, SPID) for never having used the INPS services; it would have been objectively impossible to go to the offices of the INPS or SPID identity managers because of the restrictive orders in order to obtain a digital identity; the postal delivery services necessary for the delivery of the remote PIN have been interrupted. Although the extraordinary benefits for Covid-19 are in fact essential for the livelihood of workers and their families, under the conditions mentioned above accessibility to them would have been completely precluded from a large number of beneficiaries. In order to recover these criticalities, the Institute has decided to allow, for applications only for the allowances referred to in Articles 27, 28, 29, 30 and 38 of the decree-law care Italy, as well as for those related to the baby sitting bonus, the possibility to submit applications also through the first eight characters received via SMS after the request of the PIN in the usual modalities. From 18 March to 4 April, more than 1.9 million PINs were requested from persons who, in the event that the extraordinary measures in question had not been prepared, would not have been equipped with the necessary tools to be able to claim the benefits. For example, I would like to explain how some measures have worked; others I will leave them to the documents so that you can read them. For the baby sitting bonus, the application for the online acquisition of applications for the aforementioned service, as referred to in Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, was made ex novo by the INPS, since all the applications already available did not comply with the new requirements provided by this type of performance. Among the new requirements, a centralised investigation was mainly envisaged in order to allow the payment of payments to be made quickly and without the involvement of operational activities to be carried out by the territorial offices. The persons authorized to transmit the applications were identified in patrons - therefore authorized operators and equipped with PIN - and citizens equipped with PIN (both ordinary and device). These include those who have the simplified PIN referred to in the recent provisions. The procedure was made operational in the evening of March 31st and, from the first hours, it recorded the access of a copious number of users, many of whom immediately submitted the application, both definitively and in draft. On the allowance of 600 euros, in respect of applications for the payment of the allowances referred to in Articles 27, 28, 29, 30 and 38, the Italian cure decree provided, for the whole of the national territory, that applications for the payment of the allowances regulated there be submitted directly to the INPS. The estimated potential audience of beneficiaries was quantified in the technical report attached to 5 million subjects. The vastness of the audience of potential beneficiaries has led to massive access to the INPS site by millions of users simultaneously. The time taken to develop the procedures has obviously been very short. I will now explain a few points in technical terms. If you ask for information, I have to go into the matter. It has been defined the initial sequence of application panels, which provided access to the single registry to display the data of the residence, and it has been asked also to provide for the submission of the application for the user equipped with simplified PIN, asking, in this case, for additional information. A first functional test of the application was carried out on 27 March. Later it was decided to delete the additional information because it could create difficulties for the user in filling out the application. On 28 March, in order to further simplify the acquisition of the application, it was considered to eliminate all references to the registry of the central systems and to use a database on distributed systems. On 30 March, a new functional testing of the application was carried out. Further improvements and modifications, necessary not to overload the system, given the forecast of a massive number of users in a limited period of time, were finally introduced before release. In the report that the Ministry has received, the INPS reports that, in order to carry out all the activities in a very short time, the application areas concerned have not been able to adopt all the architectural specifications that would have allowed better performance, already at the time, of the service start-up, preferring solutions already in place, appropriately adapted to the required functionalities, planning to proceed, in the course of work, to the release of the correctives of architectural compliance, as well as the ordinary application safety tests that the Institute carries out on all its applications and that it has not been possible to carry out in the light of the time required by the state of emergency. In order to mitigate the impact on the availability of the services that would be determined the following day with the opening of the applications for 600 euros allowances, in the evening of March 31st they were implemented systems, but the service - unfortunately - has immediately presented criticality precisely in the caching, which is the essential functionality on which it was relied. For this reason, with the opening of applications for 600 euros at midnight on 1 April, the Institute considered it appropriate to roll back the situation, restoring direct access to its site. At the opening of the service there was immediately a very high traffic that showed some limits of performance of the portal, subsequently aggravated by the succession of attacks from the outside, which are called in technical term DDoS, that the Institute has promptly communicated to the National Center against cybercrime for the protection of critical infrastructures and to the Department of information for the safety, providing also all the evidence of detail for the due investigations. I leave to the record a list of the attacks suffered by the INPS between 21 March and 4 April. At 9 a.m. on 1 April, more than 300,000 applications for 600 euro allowances had already been received. At this point, in agreement with Microsoft's technicians, who in the meantime had taken steps with the laboratories on the causes that had led to the rollback of the previous day, the INPS opted to activate the service CAN, this time on Akamai technology, also in view of the fact that the service was degrading to unacceptable levels. The same technicians of the supplier reconfigured the solution by predisposing the system to the Akamai service, which was activated at 10.20 a.m. on 1 April. At the time of the activation - as always illustrated by the INPS report - the anomalous functioning of the caching mechanism was revealed, which, in fact, caused the replica of some data cards present in the portal of the INPS, the only one cached; the applications, instead, residing on other domains, did not suffer from the problem. As soon as the first signs of a potential problem have emerged in the system (to be exact at 10.30 a.m.), the rollback of the solution has been initiated to return to the provision of services exclusively through the portal of the Institute. At the same time, the INPS has decided to close the Internet portal as the evidence of the first hours of opening of the service has made some optimizations necessary, which were already in development, but which had not been adopted as not yet tested at the time of opening. For this reason, the service was reopened only after three hours, during which a homepage was put into production appropriately lightened to allow faster and more direct access to the procedures of leave, bonuses and allowances, and the new version of the application of the 600 euro allowance containing substantial improvements in performance. At the same time, the alarm thresholds of the external attack protections (anti-DDoS) have been adjusted on the basis of the first measurements of the attacks observed in the morning, together with the high load of the requests of the users. In order to allow for an adequate segmentation of requests, the INPS also states that the quota of traffic from patrons and citizens has been set up, establishing that the former could enter the service exclusively from 8 a.m. to 16 a.m., while the citizens could do so during the remainder of the time. At the reopening of the service, however, there were still attacks from the outside, although effectively opposed, but the high number of requests of all citizens, waiting for the reopening, has caused many accomodations. The number of applications was attested on volumes which up to 20 hours did not exceed 29,000 units per hour. At this point, given the ineffectiveness of the solutions, we opted for in-house solutions to make the flow even lighter and minimize the presence of the user in the service. At 10 p.m., a further version of the application for the 600 euro allowance was issued. After the release of this latest version of the application, having also ceased attacks on the network, it was possible from the beginning to acquire a very large number of questions, which around midnight reached 100,000 in an hour, and then to increase further to 107,000 at one night of April 2nd. From this moment, despite the additional cyber attacks received, the service was delivered with very high volumes throughout the day of April 2, with peaks of almost 150,000 questions per hour around 18. On 2 April, following some reports by the patrons, the INPS introduced further simplifications on the application of the 600 euro allowance. Regarding the baby sitting procedure, at 11.30 a.m. on 2 April it was found that some users, due to an anomaly linked to the interface of the new authentication procedure with the profiling of the application, were able to consult the questions sent by other users. Immediately, at 12 o'clock, the application was blocked to prevent data breach. From the first investigations, there are less than 100 beneficiaries whose application for baby sitting bonus has been displayed by unauthorized third parties and, from 12 to 16.30 on April 2, it has been done to develop, test and test the corrective to overcome the anomaly. With regard to the application for the 600 euro allowance, the most frequent reports received to the INPS by users relate to cases where it was not possible to download the receipt of the application. In this regard, the Institute has already informed that it is sending a confirmation notice of receipt of the application and the issue of a dedicated result visualization service. Since the late evening of April 2, the volumes began to decrease and no appendage was recorded on the system. On the day of April 3 there was no criticality of load, the time course has retraced that of the previous day, but with volumes much lower. On the same 3 April, on its website, the Institute informed users that it had promptly notified the data breach to the Data Protection Supervisor, ensuring that, as soon as it was aware of the possibility that there had been a breach of personal data, it took all appropriate measures to remedy the risk situation, attenuating the possible negative effects to protect the rights and freedoms of persons. In this context, the e-mail box "violazionedatiGDPR@inps.it" has been established, which can be used by those whose data have been affected by the violation, attaching any documentary evidence. The Institute has informed my Ministry that it is undertaking to verify all the reports received and to take any further appropriate technical and organisational measures for the protection of personal data that may become necessary. In this regard, the content of the notice of the Guarantor is recalled with regard to the need that anyone who has become aware of personal data of others does not use them and avoids communicating them to third parties. In addition, the INPS underlines, in the reaction given to the Ministry, that, from subsequent deepenings, the problem of caching does not seem to have a direct correlation with the external attacks, although the potential conjunction of the same, along with the numerous requests from the users, has induced the Institute to adopt this type of computer service for the management of the emergency Covid-19, in which the disservice has been generated. However, despite the number and extent of the attacks suffered, even in the last few days, the Institute has succeeded in effectively ensuring the submission of applications for benefits, in particular for 600 euro benefits, which have reached almost 3 million in a few days. At 4 p.m. yesterday, the applications for the benefits provided by the Italian decree of care are 4,709,097, for more than 8,8 million beneficiaries, divided as follows: 600 euro allowance, 4,108,000; parental leave, 205,716; baby sitting bonus, 47,481; ordinary allowance, 230,900 applications for 3,200,000 beneficiaries; ordinary allowance, 117,000 applications for 1,920 000 beneficiaries. The bonuses paid were approximately 2.5 million, in particular: 260,104 allowances to professionals and workers with a coordinated and continuous cooperation relationship; 1,686,901 allowances to self-employed persons enrolled in the special managements of compulsory general insurance (AGO); 108,465 allowances to seasonal workers in tourism and thermal establishments; 437,950 allowances to agricultural workers; 17,685 allowances to entertainment workers. InPS IT personnel in recent weeks have operated 24 hours a day, Saturdays and Sundays and Easter break included, to ensure the opening of services and all the necessary support, intervening in a timely and decisive way in the critical issues found. The Institute, although it has not had previous experience of such services, has managed in the emergency all the flow received facing critical nature not only technical. I shall leave to the record - as I said before - the written text of my speech, having left out the technical part for reasons of time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr CATALFO, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. It was my duty to explain and act in transparency, as I had said, given the demands. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]] I would like to inform you that, at the same time, an internal audit of the INPS has been promoted, aimed at verifying the adequacy of the procedures, responsibilities and weaknesses of the entire process and implementation and management of the Covid-19 measures. This is the legal and factual framework. The Ministry of Labour is currently engaged in the elaboration of the norms for the next decree-law, which will of course anticipate the renewal of the proposals already advanced of social shock absorbers and Cassa Integrazione, with additional and specific financing, in addition to the compensations, that we will go to increase regarding the previous quotas, and other measures, always listening to the proposals of everyone, of the majority groups, but also those of the opposition. Thank you for listening and I apologize for extending, but I wanted to clarify, in a complete and transparent way, what I was asked for. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u37	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Labour and social policies. Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u38	Minister, today we take note of the failure of this Government and the summits of the INPS, especially because, when making a commitment to the citizen, it must be maintained. On 15 April, President Conte declared that he would pay the integration fund to everyone: this did not happen and will not happen in the next few days, neither for the integration fund as a derogation nor for the ordinary one. It's a total failure. It's a shame. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u39	Colleagues, colleagues, you will have the opportunity to respond when your turn comes. Now let's listen to Senator De Vecchis' surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u40	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, the truth hurts. On 25 February, the League, in a hearing with the Minister in the Committee on Public and Private Work, Social Security, called for the strengthening of the IT system of the INPS, a request that has fallen into the void. Everyone was aware of what would happen, except for this Government and President Tridicus. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today you will have read the beautiful interview with Guglielmo Loy: a direct accusation to this President who centralized the powers and expelled the peripheral locations. This is an accusation of extreme seriousness, which deserves the resignation of the President of the INPS. Tridicus, out of shame, we should resign and ask for it forcefully. Unfortunately, the current one is a majority that is a little faltering on some subjects. I would like to remind you that democracy is not the dictatorship of the majority. This is a democratic Republic, not an oligarchic Republic. And we are really concerned, especially because the appointment of the various task forces is demonstrating the failure of your policy. And we are particularly concerned about the economic task force. I would advise you to read the book "The Conquerors" by a Senator of the 5 Star Movement, who talks about business banks, speculations, privatisations. Count said this is not a government that works with the help of darkness. This is a government that - alas - will become the troika of the army of darkness! [[Comments of the M5S Group]] I'll name you the Bilderberg group, Club Roma, Trilateral, the ones you're putting in the government. Let me remind you that it is politics, Parliament that manages the economy and not the economy that manages Parliament, because in the economy very often private interests force - I use this term - with citizens' rights. We are really concerned because you are further selling the nation to the EU and to the great finance; already with Prodi, with Ciampi and privatizations we have seen that the oligarchies want to rule over the people, because for those gentlemen the workers are barcodes and now they will come as falcons hoping for the failure of many companies, which will happen with the decrease of GDP of 9%, to buy them at low prices. Maybe all workers who lose their jobs can be summed up with downward contracts. The League, however, will defend the Italian worker, because the Italian people are made of workers and not slaves of the great finance that you are protecting and you have called to play your role. Vittorio Colao will be the new president of this shadow government: a shame never seen! You abdicated to your task and, therefore, at this point abdicate totally and resign all. Let's leave it to everyone who comes from the banks. We make a big bank called the Italian Government and we make loans to everyone. Then find peace on the MES: MES yes, MES no; Boccia declares that the committees on the health service are confusing; Minister De Micheli says that there is no confusion; we have not yet understood what the mandate of this Economic Committee is, if it will have the task of managing the policy. Unfortunately, my lords, the matter will really get out of hand, because you have a mental and ideological confusion that will not bring any results to the Italian people. Unfortunately, I did not speak today during the information of Minister Bellanova, but I would like to say that, if it is important for this Government to stabilize 600,000 immigrants by forgetting the Italian unemployed, there is a problem: can we not let the Italian unemployed work in the agricultural world instead of giving them the income of citizenship? No, we always have to think about others. I remind you, colleagues and also friends, that we are senators of the Italian Republic and not of other States: so we must protect the rights of Italians, Italian workers and you are forgetting it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also like to take a ride on Alitalia. We are pleased that we are working on nationalization, but it is not clear what the perimeter of the airline will be: it must be clarified whether there will be redundancies and redundancies, because we will not allow any dismissal. It is easy to speak from a comfortable chair and I say it above all to my 5 Star friends, who had to open Parliament like a tuna box, but apparently now they also love bream and turbot with potatoes. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] No one has escaped: I am here and I do not move; this is our place. It is also necessary to decide on which side of the barricade to stand on, whether from one or the other; sometimes it is also necessary to be the barricade and the League is the barricade of honest Italian citizens. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] The League is this: a barricade against speculation, against great finance and above all in defense of labor, so much so that in 11a The Commission has always asked - and I do not know what purpose this request has made - to set up the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Health and Safety of Workers; this Commission has never started, but at this point it is vital because workers' health must be protected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Also at the sitting of the 11th Commission on 25 February we asked for personal protective equipment and we knew that there was a confrontation with the social partners a month later: do you know how many people got infected in a month in the workplace? I can bring you testimonies of a category that many forget, that of cleaning workers, those who disinfect the places where others work. It is a very important category, but abandoned to itself. Nobody has the devices: there are workers from companies at Fiumicino airport who work without personal protective equipment. Giuseppe Conte, where are you? Are you watching movies with your bank friends? I don't know where you are. Are you in the bank? Actually, no, maybe you're buying masks for 9,000 euros before serving citizens. It's a shame, a cowardice. Such a man cannot be the Premier of the Italians. I say this because the generals die in front of the troops, they don't hide behind the troops. You have to change your mind, and you really have to change your mind. Senator Lannotti, you speak in your book about business banks, Goldman Sachs... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the presidency, Senator De Vecchis. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Today they become part of the yellow-red government. Do you know Goldman Sachs? They are the ones who have speculated and who look forward to eating the corpse Italy. But as long as there is the League, the friends of Brothers of Italy and of Forza Italia, Italy will not die, but will rise; we will defend this nation. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] The first great executioner in Italy is Romano Prodi. I repeat: it is Romani Prodi, who sold the IRI and all the great assets. Golden power will not be enough to defend our listed companies. It will be necessary to review and understand above all why the Led Governments and Renzi have privatised the last national assets, have obeyed the "letter" and have removed the rights of citizens provided for in the famous article 18. Do you like to be communists with the Rolex? Gentlemen, today is no longer the time of the Rolex; Today is the time to talk about the third sector. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] The third sector is abandoned: in all the decree-law there is only one article that speaks of the third sector. We give you some notes. Maybe it is time to protect the men and women in the third sector. The time has come to accelerate the liquidity of 5 per thousand, perhaps even unlocking the 2018-2019 funds for projects at national level. But I understand that talking about banks is perhaps much easier and much more simplified than talking about the third sector, about men and women who are really demonstrating what Italy is. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] I mention a few names of citizens: Danilo Guaiana, a trade unionist who thinks about helping his colleagues; Orietta Mariotti of Pro Rett, who has a child affected by this goddamn syndrome, but her concern for example was to bring Easter eggs to the other girls. I remember the friends of The Heart of Christian, an Onlus that fights against tumors that - alas - hit children: they too were concerned to bring eggs, while someone worried to fill their wardrobe with individual masks and protections. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u41	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u42	Mr President, Minister, we have listened to your long report which the whole House will have appreciated for the political perspective that you have been able to give us all, for the strategy contained in your statements. However, Minister, looking at the historic timetable behind the Presidency, I would first of all like to remind you that today is 16 April, so there is a hurry, there is a great rush of concreteness and answers. I am a citizen, before a political representative, of the Autonomous Province of Trento, of the Trentino-Alto Adige Region. I would remind you that the solidarity funds of the Provinces of Bolzano and Trento are still waiting for the national wage integration fund's resources to be allocated. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I would ask you to speed up and also look at the problems of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. That calendar which reads "April 16" leads me to consider that there are workers, workers, employees who since March have not seen a lira, who are without money, Minister. If everything goes well, for those who know the subject and know what it means to develop Cassa Integrazione practices - I, among other things, am an accountant - we can predict that realistically, except perhaps a few record exceptions, before the second half of May workers will not see a euro from the Cassa Integrazione. It would have sufficed little, Minister; it would have sufficed to let the worthy employees of the INPS work quietly, to whom all thanks go to the Brothers of Italy, because they are spending themselves on the cause even failing to rest. It would have been enough to leave them quiet and create direct anticipations, as they did in Germany, that would have allowed companies to satisfy their suppliers and employees and then regulate the cash integration procedures normally, in an ordinary way. We would have solved a lot more problems for the workers and would have left the INPS employees quieter, and without it, the employees of the INPS. To sum up, as far as agriculture is concerned, this morning we listened to Mr Bellanova, to whom I would like to remind him that he is a consequence of the right things he promised and what, unfortunately, the decrees do not bring. In essence, Minister, remember the vouchers. If Mr Bellanova is reminded of this, I would like him to remember it in the Council of Ministers when the decrees are being decided. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] We could use very well for the work in the camps those workers who take 780 euros of citizenship income, as could go in the fields the Cassaintegrati and the unemployed, so it would not be necessary to legalize 500,000 illegals. I move on quickly because - I repeat - time is little, and I am talking about professionals, of that category, Minister, that this Government must never have liked so much because you never got one right and made them all angry, from geometries, engineers, notaries. Those professionals to whom, with regard to the 600 euros, you have allocated a much lower amount - 200 million which satisfy just over 300,000 questions when we already know that there will be over 400,000 and I hope that you will provide - and those professional orders, i.e. those registered in the professional orders and in the social security funds - almost two million VAT consignments - that you discriminated against other self-employed workers because, by chance, only for them are provided income limits to access the benefit of the 600 euros, which in itself - as I said - would also be fair, but then I wonder why the professionals enrolled in the orders yes and the other self-employed workers do not. You have to explain this to me and you have to explain it to two million professionals, Minister. In conclusion, I would like to ask you why, between one decree and the other, you have provided for the exclusive registration to the coffers? To ask the questions twice, to have the employees of the pension funds work twice, to create problems especially for those professionals - perhaps young people - who had a small income from employees or maybe some colleagues who have a small pension of 50 or 100 euros and who therefore, while remaining within the income limit of 35,000 euros, will not be able to access the allowance of 600 euros? I invite you, Minister, to reflect on these aspects and I also invite you to accept the application of the pension funds of professionals who require you to use your money to give benefits to workers. Mr Nannicini was right in his amendment to propose it. It would be time for the government to accept it and therefore the coffers could freely, beyond the regulations, assist their members without restrictions and of course making this amount of assistance taxable, even for the ordering professionals, this amount of assistance. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u43	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Minister, for your presence in this Chamber, although we would have expected your intervention long before today for an information on the work of your Ministry which plays a fundamental role in the management of the crisis that we are experiencing. Everyone praises union and cooperation, as Mr Bellanova said just now, but we must be able to share the choices and you, Minister, come to report after many measures have already been launched on the crisis, providing a series of bureaucratic data, instead of giving us political guidelines for today and tomorrow, without telling us when the money will actually enter the pockets of the working citizens, because you did not talk about liquidity. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I regret to say this, Minister, but it seems a little too late for you to be here today, even for clarification. This is not transparency. What is worse, however, are your measures, unnecessarily complicated, taken late, without clarity and linearity on the procedural process to be followed. You too, Minister, like the rest of the Government, rather than preventing the needs of workers, whether employees or self-employed, and citizens all, are chasing the emergency with one measure after another, accompanied by often confused and contradictory communications that reveal the lack of a clear overall plan on what to do. Let's talk about the Integration Fund. To say that the integration fund will be for everyone except for domestic workers, the so-called working poor, which, among other things, its political membership boasts of wanting to defend, and then not allocating the appropriate resources immediately means not giving a solution and creating illusion in the workers. It is clear that to date we will not be able to satisfy the questions of everyone, without forgetting all the complications for the submission of the request. Trade unions are helping to slow down applications for the Integration Fund, because you with a rule before you have excluded them, except immediately after recovering them and making their participation mandatory. Minister, businesses need to streamline procedures to the maximum, now more than ever, not to have further complexity. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Employers are concerned, in addition to the fate of their companies, with the fate of their employees. After having repeated you infinite times, not only us, but also the freelancers, the trade associations, the whole world, that almost all employers are unable to anticipate the money of the integration fund to their workers, because they have no liquidity, and that the INPS unfortunately has biblical times for payments, you have made an agreement with the banks to be able to anticipate them. However, from the demand to the reception to the supply is too long and in the next few days they will have nothing to do with the shopping. Then there is the issue of stamps, which may seem marginal but instead it is very emblematic. Mr Minister, your announcement of 31 March via Twitter of the abolition of the duty of the stamp for the request of the integration fund by way of derogation, in the absence of an existing rule, has actually made inadmissible applications received without a stamp, making it necessary, in order to remedy them, to introduce an ad hoc article of the liquidity decree of 8 April. However, workers could be encouraged, but it is not possible to legislate via Twitter. Then there are the bonuses of 600 euros for the self-employed and VAT matches, which we hope you will want to increase, as well as from us of Forza Italia demanded with insistence. Minister, a bonus was due and there is no doubt about that. That it is a ridiculous figure is obvious, and it is not commendable that it comes only now and not for everyone and that it has been handled badly. To say the least, it was the management of the INPS, on which you, Minister, did not say a word until now. First President Tridico announced a click day for insufficient resources for everyone, then recanted. But a simultaneous access of hundreds of thousands of applicants was expected. How could you not predict that he would shut down the system? This has been aggravated by the refusal to authorize - as also from our proposal - the freelancers to act as intermediaries for the request of the bonus. So, in order to be able to have access, VAT matches, small artisans, self-employed workers had to stay hours and hours, day and night, in front of the PC, or they had to turn to, CAF, they yes authorized, and maybe get a card to ask for 600 euros and this is a shame. Minister, it is very serious to have treated as if it were ordinary administration the flight of sensitive data of private citizens out of the INPS site [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] simply attributing it to a hacker attack, which also implies the fragility of the system (worse I feel, if one can enter). How serious was the announcement by President Tridico that pension resources will be exhausted within a few months: it is crazy in this context. Crazy. Minister, you have stated that the Italian cure decree will give support to 19 million workers, but many more remain outside. And we are concerned that there is someone in the government - I am referring to Minister Provenzano - who says that workers in black should also be helped; and you, Minister, supported this proposal. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] But we say that we must first take into account those who have worked as regular employees and those workers who have invested in creating and multiplying jobs. Unfortunately, however, the attention is placed on the irregulars and the recipients of citizenship income, which Forza Italia had proposed that they could be used for socially useful jobs in this crisis and for work in the fields; but our proposal was not accepted. We have allocated 7 billion for citizenship income in this year's budget and now 10 billion is allocated to those who work; perhaps a lot of things must make us think, Minister. We must support women's work: why not give support to public paritarian schools, including kindergartens and kindergartens, which are indispensable for working mothers? What about the vouchers? Why are you against it? They represent indispensable tools for access, even occasional, to the world of work in order, in agricultural work, but also in any other operating area to replace patients or those in quarantine. Forza Italia has always been for the right to work and for regular work. We need greater flexibility, which has always been useful and indispensable now to restart; simplification is needed. There are already new ways of working on the horizon, but the labour market must be able to seize all new opportunities. We are facing greater challenges than ourselves, which cannot be tackled by putting ideologies in the field, by using social envy and by using logics anchored in the past, such as the proposal by the PD to tax incomes above EUR 80,000. The doctors will thank you, you who call them "heroes": the highest fees and reward them with only 100 euros. Perhaps they should also be given safety at work, because there have been too many deaths. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Precise and univocal indications are needed for a restart of the entire country system in safety. Everything is no longer the same and never will be again. Minister, you have a duty to open the door to all possible opportunities, but to do so you must want and be able to intercept them. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u45	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u46	Mr President, Minister, we can objectively say that the majority that supports this Government is not programmed to be homogeneous on many issues. Work is one of the issues on which we have different views. But the emergence of the crisis of the past Government and, even more so, the emergency that has arisen from the spread of the epidemic pushes us to collaborate, to temper our convictions and to trace difficult paths of mediation, of course never downwards and trying to build useful paths for the citizens and, in this case, for the workers. We are playing the whole future of our country on the job; that was why we asked him to come to this House to report on the malfunctions that have been and, above all, on what we will have to do and how to prevent other functions from happening in the future. We ask you to listen to our ideas too, because unfortunately it has not always happened so far. The measures put in place by the government - this is the thing that makes me angry the most and that should make you even more angry - were taken promptly and in real time compared to the outbreak of the epidemic. What makes our late and complex measures appear for all citizens is all that has happened since the Council of Ministers approved the Italian care measure and the measures before the citizens began to find themselves in the current accounts, i.e. this week. Now, with regard to these delays, to an incredible bureaucracy and to the objective dysfunctions, what I expect from the Minister of Government that I support is that, along with me, he gets angry with who caused these delays and not that he defends it in this way. It is commendable your defense, but sincerely, with respect to the management of this whole phase, I have seen several twists and I would have liked you to have taken action. By the way, I would like to say to my colleagues in the League, who are so smart, that Tridico has been appointed president of the INPS by your Government Count I. So, saying and doing the lesson here about the man who's driving the INPS seems genuinely inappropriate to me. The description you made of the hacker attacks seemed more like "Star Wars" than a very simple question to ask the INPS to get a contribution. With regard to this situation, I believe that we need to understand the responsibilities and, above all, to understand how to avoid repeating everything that has happened at this stage. I say this because unfortunately its role as Minister of Emergency has not closed with respect to all the issues of work, just as the function of the President of the INPS has not closed - then we will also go to the National Active Policies Agency (ANPAL) for which another story is worth - in an emergency situation that will continue. Other measures will have to be taken; there will be a new decree after the Italian care and we will see next week how much deviation will be requested by the Government. Other measures will have to be taken because we have financed nine weeks of cash-integration and, therefore, resources will have to be found for other weeks of cash-integration. There are the integrations for the employees who have remained in service and on which you must proceed quickly; there is all the reorganization of the restart. Minister, I would like us to confront each other on this and I hoped that we would talk about something already today because, if we were to find ourselves in the same situation as we have experienced in recent weeks, it would really be quite disturbing. I do not want to criticize you or the Government and I speak first of all of myself: when we elaborate measures and ask those who have a role on behalf of the State - I am referring to the President of the INPS in this case - to carry out an efficient service for our country on such delicate issues, we must always put ourselves in the shoes of those who in these moments are feeling shattered the ground under their feet. When we ask for everything to work for the best, we do it not because we want to criticize someone or build a political fortune on that criticism. Let's imagine a guy, a girl, a dad or a mom who goes every day to check the site, every day he goes to the counter to check if the deposit was made and every day he sees that that deposit is not there or that maybe he can't connect to the site because he can't ask the question. I think we should put ourselves in their shoes, and first of all, President Tridico should also be in the shoes of pensioners. I remind you, this is not the first nonsense Tridico makes as president. I also remember the statements made by him, just when the epidemic exploded, on the subject that probably lacked the resources to pay pensions, denied after a few hours when the national case emerged. I believe that all these things cannot be said or done by letting them pass in a quiet and serene way and I think that anyone who says these things cannot be free from any kind of criticism, first of all from the Minister who answers them. In fact, Tridico doesn't come here to answer for the things we're talking about, but you. So, you're the one who should be angry if Tridicus doesn't do his job well. I, from this point of view, expected a little more self-criticism today and, above all, some ideas on how to prevent this from happening again. When I told you earlier to listen more to us on the subject of the involvement of banks, for example, in the integration fund and to speed up payments, we had thought of the single integration fund, but you told us that it was not possible because the time was too long. Probably, however, if we had activated it, just because the emergency coronavirus we will carry it with us for a few months, we could activate it for the second round of Cassa Integrazione, on which we will have to go to work, because, otherwise, we will find ourselves again in the same conditions, again with all the Regions that will operate on the Cassa Integrazione in derogation and with a series of infernal mechanisms. To such mechanisms we can resign (I do not want to resign myself, to tell the truth) in times of peace, but, honestly, these slownesses are intolerable in time of "war." On the integration fund and the payment of EUR 600 to self-employed professionals, which we hope, Minister, to become more, we believe that, from this point of view, mechanisms to improve what has been done so far can be invented. 14:55 (Faraone followed). Otherwise, if we're gonna get ready, chest outside, to see the same movie again on the next round, tell us first. We do not even ask you to come forward with information, but we note that we are resigned to the failure to operate. I see that we are so aware of what economic resources we need to take from Europe. To me, what impresses me is that, in the meantime that we get caught, time passes. While Trump has paid out EUR 240 billion, making an incredible contribution to the resources immediately paid into the current accounts of the Americans, we still have to see the European Union approve the shore; then, there will be the time that we will have to use for these resources to be committed. You realize that while other countries travel quickly, we are late here! [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] And we will have to act on the issue of the integration fund for workers who will start to return to service, at least in part, in companies. There will be others, however, precisely because of the social gap, which will still be in the Cassa Integrazione and you will have to continue to operate. There will be the theme of the housing of these employees, because you can't let them go to work and then send them back home, to their family members, perhaps becoming contagious. There will be mobility and transport. There will be many issues, on which you will have to play a leading role and on which we must immediately question ourselves, in order to avoid the cumbersomeness and bureaucracy that we have experienced during this period, experimenting precisely on our skin those who have been the delays. Minister, the proportion of economic resources allocated to labour policies cannot be one hundred passive labour policies to an active labour policy, because, if that is the case, our economy and our work will be doomed to asphyxiation. We need a rebalancing. The resources will be huge. Uses to rebalance: more active labour policies. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u48	Minister, we listened to you in your reading of this long report, which appeared to us a blurry photograph, a patch worse than the hole, an attempt to justify that, once upon a time, the Movimento 5 Stars would not forgive anyone. We would have expected you to have taken a few minutes to announce in this House, in this late information, the measures you had taken. Specifically, we expected you to announce in this House that you had requested and obtained the resignation of the President of the Tridico INPS for the resounding inefficiencies, for the resounding delays. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] and for the embarrassing justification he gave after the failure of that day and the delays in payments that are still underway. We also expected you to announce here that you had requested and obtained the resignation of the President of ANPAL (National Agency for Active Policies) Parisi, who fled to the United States. This we expected from a Minister indicated by the Movimento 5 Stars. On the other hand, we find ourselves in a very embarrassing situation in which you, Minister, waste an hour in this House in dramatic action to justify and buffer these resounding errors and do not even take a few minutes to say how, with what vision and with what strategy you and your Government intend to act to foil the forecasts that the international agencies - it is a few hours ago that of the International Monetary Fund, for example - make about the Italian situation, announcing that, if it continues in this way, with the measures announced by our and your Government, Italy will have the worst economic recession among all the important countries (less 10% of GDP) and the worst contraction of work (another 3 million unemployed, which add to what we already have). Above all, if the so-called care of the Government does not change, according to the most acclaimed international forecasts, Italy will be the country that will more slowly walk next year on the path of recovery, widening the already dramatic gap compared to the other countries of the European Union. We expected a vision, a project, announcements. We expected him to say, for example, what you are preparing for temporary workers. Yesterday the Bank of Italy - I repeat, the Bank of Italy, which is not a union - tells us and tells you that for temporary workers there is nothing in the measures you have done. I also read in the newspapers, but you do not say so in this House, Minister, that you are considering a revision of the Dignity Decree to remove some snare and snare: I read it in the newspapers published on the Internet, but you, I repeat, do not tell us in this House. What must you tell us in this House, as well as justify the resounding mistakes you have made? It must tell us how you will act to prevent the economic and social drama that everyone sees around the corner and that stunned and dismayed citizens feel on their skin. You appear - it is hard to tell you, but we must do so - far from the real country, from those who are suffering, from those who are aware that the next day they will probably not have their jobs. Today we need to plan the reopening without waiting for the conclusions of the pharaonic committees that you have created outside Parliament: dozens of committees of various kinds, with almost 300 people involved. All these task forces, what are they for? To confuse and confuse the country's ideas. Could you no longer simply implement the law, you who said you were respectful of the law and the Constitution? It is precisely in the Constitution that there is a consultative body called the National Economic and Labour Council, which has already activated its instruments to monitor the situation. In the face of a constitutional body with which you have a duty to consult, you do not consult with Parliament. Do not act in Parliament, do not even call the third chamber, which is the consultative chamber, but create many others, playing cards, to hide your inefficiency and your lack of ideas, vision and a project for national rebirth. That is why, today, we and the country, unfortunately, must fail you. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u49	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u50	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Labour and Social Policy for his report and for all the information he wanted to give the Senate in this information, knowing perfectly well - but the Minister is as aware of it as we are - that there are so many instruments that we need to put in place and I will devote myself to them. I have heard some colleagues talk about the impact on the INPS, as if they had never had the opportunity to enter the INPS website before this emergency. I would like to remind you that the INPS website had been changed two or three years ago by the predecessors and, to be honest, I myself struggled a little to figure out, for example, how to get into the pension drawer. Not to mention the great innovation, consisting of the fact that the CUD models always and only come online to our pensioners, who, as we have seen also at this stage, do not have a great familiarity with the computer. I added these details to make it clear what was in front of the INPS. There may have been problems, we will do the tests and we will do everything we can to do, but how can we fail to understand and not realize that the INPS has been faced with very high flows, that have all arrived together at the same time? It's no small thing. I also agree with the many Members who say that it is also our job to put in place additional simplification tools. Let us think of the integration fund: all workers who have had to undergo the integration fund in their working life, not to mention the supplementary fund by way of derogation, know perfectly well how much time it takes to provide them. So it is clear that we are taking these problems and we have faced the issue of the emergency with a number of problems that already existed. This is due to bureaucratic lengths, which obviously needed to be dealt with earlier, but it is all the more necessary to intervene now. However, we cannot speak without realizing what the flows have been. Anyone who has tried to get the voucher and access knows that they have tried to get into the INPS website and have entered millions of people at the same time. That is the point and I believe that today, despite the difficulties, we have reached a fairly good rate of payment: I am thinking of 60% of the 600 euro payments and by now or tomorrow there will be other procedures that will be completed. However, the issue of simplifications remains on our horizon and so we hand it over to the Minister, but also to ourselves, to put in place a series of subsequent instruments, even in the immediate future: we now have the decrees under consideration and perhaps we could also work on this issue. We then come to the question of measures. Also in this case the Government has put in place, with the decree care Italy, a series of measures absolutely extraordinary and new for the Country, because also the fund integration in derogation, given also to the enterprises with only one employee, is an absolutely exceptional instrument. This is the first time that we have spoken about the self-employed: how can we fail to realize this? I am thinking, for example, of the activation of Article 44 of the Italian decree on professionals: I must acknowledge the Minister that, while we were discussing the amendments in the Commission, he began to draft the ministerial decree. We must solve a problem, because, as the Minister knows, a problem has been created which we are all well aware of, which concerns the bureaucracy of the State and I am referring to the issue of Accounting. We are talking about things as they are, but we cannot ignore the fact that the Minister, while we, in the Budget Committee, were discussing our amendments, tabled with regard to the provisions concerning professionals, was acting with a ministerial decree, in some way anticipating them. Is that enough? No, that's not enough. We also thought that the emergency could last less, so we know perfectly well that those measures are not enough. Next week we will vote on the deviation and it is clear to everyone that it cannot be like what we have already discussed, for only EUR 25 billion: those will barely cover the measures that already exist, to extend them, but we need to put in place other extraordinary instruments. Many people have been excluded from those measures. This is my personal anguish and I am sure that it is also the Minister's attack, as I know it: the many people who have no support whatsoever. This should be our assailant. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] We are talking here about the proposals. Senator Pharaoh said that we have different visions: fine, but we have to confront each other. I think we need an emergency income. The conditionality of citizenship income has certainly been reduced, which compared to the original version had been heavily loaded. However, today we still need an instrument like that. All domestic work was excluded, irregular workers and intermittent workers remained outside. There are people who don't really know how to feed their children right now. That is the fundamental question. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] This should be the assailant in the work we do in collaboration with the Government, in the discussion, which certainly must be as wide as possible, for the preparation of instruments that we are able to develop, without ideological debates. Ideological debates, once again on the question of how we intervene to help poor people, who are currently deprived of any income, I would no longer like to hear them. We must be able to put in place instruments and resources to overcome this difficult time. It is not only voluntary work, the Church, Caritas that can take care of this, or only the Municipalities, who in some way try to cope with the situation. This must be our main assailant. I gave my opinion. I think the instrument is emergency income, I don't know if it's okay or other instruments are better, but this must be the fundamental issue, together with the ability to put in place tools to simplify its delivery. We all agree on that and work together. Actually, I think we set up too many task forces, and I don't like them very much. Here is popular sovereignty, there are the Commissions, there is the Government, there are parliamentarians. I believe that we have all the possibilities, even to take advantage - for goodness sake - of experts, but this is the most important thing. Among other things, I have noticed - I am addressing the Minister - that there is not much attention, for example, to include in these task forces experts in safety at work, that it is not the same that we had been concerned about before and that - alas - it continued to record in our country a very heavy record of white deaths. Today we have a problem for biosafety experts: this is the issue to be addressed in phase 2 and in reopening and I believe that the Ministry will be able to monitor and will be a stimulus, a strong impulse, precisely to focus attention on these issues, which are absolutely fundamental. In conclusion, I would add that in addition to the income aid instrument we also need to act on other fronts; we tried to do so in the decree-law care Italy, but there were no resources. I am thinking of the issue of rents: some 4 million people are in great difficulty at the moment, both those who do not have anything, and those with the supplementary fund by way of derogation, which is in line with their income. We must therefore put in place social shock absorbers, income aid, support measures, but also other initiatives that can make it possible to implement what we have said from the outset, namely that no one should be left alone and I know that the Minister will work on this. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU, PD and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Nannicini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Catalfo for his information and for the work he is doing with the Government. I would also like to thank you immensely - allow me - and not only because we are talking about work, the workers and the workers who, through their work, allow us to guarantee the essential services, to hold on to these difficult times, and to those who will allow us to start again, to return to life by pulling us out of a crisis and a recession in which we have fallen. In this crisis we have noticed the importance of jobs that have not always had the right economic and social recognition: I am thinking of agricultural work (my colleague Mrs Biti recognized it this morning), of many manual jobs, of domestic work, of care work, of those who care for our elderly and people with disabilities. Let us remember this and start doing it today and not tomorrow, not only with our thanks but with concrete acts, for example by forcefully extending social shock absorbers to domestic work, to colfs and caretakers, giving them a certainty of income not episodic and not emerging, but with real social shock absorbers. Let's do it by investing in safety at work not only for those who are in medium-sized enterprises able to transpose our protocols and standards, but also for those who work in the most marginal and peripheral fringes of the labour market; let's do it again by recognising rights and protection to all workers on our national territory. If the borders are closed (and when they are closed we realize the importance of part of the seasonal work that comes from other countries), we immediately open the rights regularizing the workers who are in our territory and who are waiting to see recognized their contribution to Italy. This transition out of the economic emergency and the work created by the pandemic will be long, as Minister Bellanova acknowledged this morning. We must put ourselves on a horizon of planning and drawing interventions over a period of at least twelve months, during which the State will have to do many things: it will tell us who will return first to work, how it will work, how it will move. The intervention of the state - whether we like it or not - in this difficult transition will be invasive, for this reason we must have one obsession: that it is simple, transparent and innovative, because the costs of this invasiveness cannot fall on those who work and the companies that will leave. We must also abandon the recipes, the instruments and - let us say this - even the political flags of the past, because today we will not need them in this transition. I would like to give a few examples on three points: job security, job guarantee and income guarantee. On the safety of work, as we divide into groups, we will need to detail more new protocols, lowered on the reality of our companies also on the availability of all the tools that allow our companies to re-start working safely and also identifying rules that clearly specify the responsibilities of employers and workers at this difficult stage, because again it would not be forgiving to download to employers and workers the limits of the State: it is right for everyone to assume their responsibilities, but to apply the protocols companies must be able to have the necessary tools. In order to go to work workers will have to have public mobility (for those who do not have private means) without traveling safely falls on their duty to go to the workplace. We will have to invest in controls and inspections: OSH and labour inspectors do not currently have the necessary resources, both in terms of human and financial resources, to carry out such a huge task in this transition phase when security will take new forms and require new standards and controls. We need to invest resources, and above all we need to burn down. We cannot, of course, compete for the new skills - as Mrs De Petris also mentioned - which will end in eighteen months' time, when we hope that the transition will be behind us: we must hire instantly and quickly new professionals in safety and safety at work. The second point is the guarantee of work. There are areas to which we say stand still and there are others who unfortunately stand still because there is no question. But there are also areas where the demand for work exists and which will be increasingly shared; in this phase of transition of the economy of separation, in which social distancing will not be as rigid as today, but will still be part of our way of consuming and living, there will be some sectors that will have a strong demand for work. We must allow them to intercept it. I think, for example, that the constraints of the so-called decree of dignity, the constraints on the possibility of renewing fixed-term contracts, for a period of time we must suspend them, because where there is the possibility of renewing contracts, we cannot leave these workers alone. We must allow those who have a cash benefit to work in a constant relationship without losing the full cash benefit, to test new experiences in the labour market and find new opportunities. We must - as Mr Pharaoh said - invest in active policies; we will also have to put active policies and training at the centre of this transition phase, because it will not be easy to move workers and reform them to accompany them where the demand for work will be and will be there first. I say this in parenthesis: in this task a national direction will be necessary and it will be important that the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL) has strong and full-time guidance. This situation must be resolved in one way or another, in my view, quickly. The third and final point is the income guarantee. This was the focus of the government's first emergent interventions, rightly so. I believe that we need to get out of this emergency phase of buffer surgery on the income guarantee. Precisely because the transition will be long, we must give certainty about what will be the income guarantee instruments during this period, not with a decree per month, with changing audiences and dancing figures, often reading them in the newspapers and with professionals and companies who message Members about what will happen in the next decree. We must leave behind an integration fund with fourteen instruments and procedures that are still too baroque, different from Region to Region, from sector to sector, from bank to bank. The bonuses do not reach all the audiences, despite the efforts, with the Income Fund of last resort, to reach residually the audiences not involved, and they give horizontal and not progressive benefits to those audiences while, if the transition is long, we need these resources to go where they are needed, where the incomes are lower and where the decline in activity has made itself felt more. There will be a strengthening of the income guarantee for the unemployed, which are currently the category left behind by the first emergent interventions. We cannot think of doing ostriches with the temporary ban on two-month layoffs: we know that there are people who were in Naspi and that the latter ends; there are people who have fixed-term contracts that are not renewed. We need to extend Naspi and Dis-collo by way of derogation, in my opinion, by bringing them into a social shock absorber and into a real higher unemployment wage for the unemployed, by removing the decalage, by removing the reduction and giving a constancy of income for the whole period of the transition: I can't say that that income will slowly lower it to activate you, if you can't activate yourself because the economy is still not starting again. Therefore, social shock absorbers for the unemployed; social shock absorbers in constancy of ratio simplifying the cash; social shock absorbers for the self-employed, also this has been said, stabilising and making progressive the benefits and releasing the resources of the social security funds. It is not conceivable that when the social security funds invest resources that come from the contributions of the professionals and fail to invest, this is not net debt while they invest them well, and they have returns, that such returns cannot serve to make wider welfare that allows professionals and coffers to live. In conclusion, Mr President, these are obviously huge challenges, and we wish the government good work on them, and we want to say that Parliament is there and it is right that it is there. That is why the PD Group, working in the Commission, at the initiative of Mr Laus, has asked the Commission to hold a series of hearings on the subject of competence which will enable the Commission to listen to the social partners, the experts and the third sector in order to focus on the emergencies and the answers to be given at this stage. Only if we all, each of us for our own responsibility, do our part, will we emerge stronger and more united from the terrible crisis that we are going through. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u54	Mr President, Minister, you have given us a report, a statement which, for the sake of goodness, we have welcomed and appreciated its diligence, but we would have expected answers and prospects from you. For example, since this morning the Minister of Agriculture, a Minister of his own Government, came to tell us, even though we already knew from other sources, that in agriculture will be needed from 280,000 to 350,000 temporary workers, and then even spoke of another 600,000 irregulars, we would have liked to know what the answer is, in light of the fact that you said no to the proposal of Forza Italia to re-introduce the voucher. I understand that there is an ideological aversion on your part but the emergency should make you go beyond: you can continue to say that the voucher is not good but that it is used because of the emergency. If there is one thing that really worked in these weeks, it was the fact that in the stores there have never been a lack of food, there has never been a lack of food and the citizens - those who could and those who had money - have always been able to buy. But if the harvest season, the most intense season in agriculture, doesn't work, how can you supply it? The agricultural organizations have also said that without an instrument with which the necessary people can work during this period it will be a problem to ensure food safety, in other words to have food and food available. How will these companies do it? Frankly, we don't know. This morning the proposal was to regularise the illegals. Apart from the fact that we, of course, would think that it would be better to regularise Italians first and give employers a chance to hire Italians and then, possibly, regularize illegal immigrants. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] But whether they are Italian, illegal or ex-clandestine, what is the tool for hiring a person for those two days, those two weeks, those two months, which are not currently covered? We would have liked to have an answer on why you thought to introduce 600 euros to compensate people who are without income not because they were not able but because the laws of the State, or the decrees of the State, prevented them from working. We know very well that they were necessary measures. Then, to these people, who have investments, who have expenses, we give 600 euros, when to the recipients of the income of citizenship - people who certified do nothing and did nothing already before - we give up to 780. The reasoning is difficult to follow, just as it is difficult to understand why citizens' income recipients cannot go to work, for example, in the harvest season in agriculture. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We would have liked to have some answers from you on safety at work. Safety at work also means having masks, having individual protections. There is also this, there are categories, even within the state, that are not yet provided, or are not provided enough. We would have liked to have some answers on the New Social Employment Insurance (NASpI), not only for access, which must be simplified, but also for those who are already there and who, at a time when it is even impossible to work even for those who have a job, suffer the progressive reduction: also on this we need some answers. The answers must be given to you, Minister, the government must give you, the President of the Council must give you, you must not rely on task forces, on scientific technical committees: those must provide advice, but you must make decisions and you must take them because that is what the Constitution says and that is what the necessity requires. We have made our proposals, and when they are rejected we would at least like to have some answers which unfortunately we have not received this morning. We hope that the government's work will continue effectively because, good or bad, it is the government of the country, but certainly we would need greater collaboration, greater openness also to the opposition's proposals. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u55	She's enlisted to speak Senator Matrisciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for this very detailed speech, which touched on every step of the enormous work done by her Ministry, for extraordinary work in an exceptional and unprecedented situation and when I say without precedent I intend to make it clear, in addition to those in this House who should already be aware of it, even to those who listen to us from home that no government has ever faced a socio-sanitary and economic emergency of this magnitude and to have to put in place extraordinary measures to protect citizens in a very short time. The diffusion of the coronavirus has led the government and we political decision-makers to face a unique situation at least in recent history, a world crisis of dual impact on the economy: a shock of demand and one of supply. To find a comparable event, in fact, you have to go back to the oil crisis of the seventies or go until the first post-war period. We are living one of the most dramatic historical moments for the national and world economy, we need to act coldly to achieve those goals that were clear from the start to this Government: defending the work, supporting the families and the liquidity of the enterprises, acting on the fiscal side, unlocking good public investments. It is too easy to criticize at this time when legislative distortions have emerged and continue to emerge which we have accumulated over decades and which have created superstructures that certainly cannot be corrected at a time of crisis when action is needed quickly. I say this especially to those who today go around proposing simplistic solutions to pick up some more likes on his Facebook page, especially talking about cash integration, but showing that they do not know the complex system of social shock absorbers, a system fragmented and financed by different actors. Thinking at this time of structural changes would therefore be difficult, as well as costly, but above all would lead to losing the race against time, which instead required speed in satisfying the urgent needs of Italian citizens. In spite of everything, we have made every effort, trying to simplify and sburocratize as much as possible, as you, Minister, have well illustrated. It is worth remembering that under normal conditions, it takes between 60 and 90 days on average to activate the integration fund, both ordinary and by way of derogation. Well, this government has managed to activate all the necessary procedure in contingency times and to come to the rescue of all those employers and workers who have suspended or reduced their activity for events related to the epidemiological emergency by slimming procedures both in terms of information and trade union consultation, and in terms of timing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have also expanded the audience with respect to the normal beneficiaries of the benefit. In this process, of course, we also call for a greater effort from the regions. As far as the integration fund is concerned by way of derogation, if the regions do not send the data to the INPS, this cannot be provided within the time limit. To date there are 13 regions that have authorized the cash register. I do not hide, however, my disappointment. At a time like this, everyone's cooperation would have been expected, because everyone's goal was to help a people in difficulty, but that was not the case. Once again, it was preferred to stop and criticize the momentary malfunctions of the INPS platform, using them presumptuously to carry out its political struggle. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Gentlemen, the INPS, like the Government, is fighting day and night to face an unprecedented socio-economic and health situation, putting in place all possible energies; but instead it has preferred to use a technical problem and a procedural disorder as an instrument of political propaganda. Dear colleagues, I prefer to tell you this, but as a citizen, rather than as a senator: the Italians of political struggles, the search for visibility of party leaders and polls at this moment do not really matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And who has thought about this, has once again shown that he has lost the opportunity to show that politics, whenever it wants, knows how to be something different, knows how to be an instrument able to accommodate the concerns of workers, families and all those who today are afraid: fear of tomorrow, fear of imagining what the world and their life will be like when we come out of this emergency, fear of imagining a future for themselves and for loved ones. A good policy must be able to set aside the search for consensus and take the people by the hand, give them tools to accompany them in this which will be the most important challenge to face and tell them: don't be afraid, we are there and we will be there. Work tirelessly, in the exclusive interest of the citizens. Just think of how you, Minister, have been at the forefront of the drafting of the convention concluded on the night of 30-31 March between ABI, trade unions and employers. This is also an excellent result, in order to ensure that workers are given the support they are entitled to as soon as possible. This is what our government is doing, this is what the Minister of Labour is doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Ordinary and by way of derogation, parental leave, baby-sitter vouchers, allowances for the self-employed and income fund of last resort are only some of the most important initiatives undertaken and completed last week in the decree care Italy. The liquidity decree, however, recently arrived in Parliament, in addition to providing several tens of billions to ensure liquidity to the companies brought to their knees by the emergency, provides - and it is no small - the extension of the ordinary cash cover and derogation and of the ordinary cheque provided by the Italian care also to workers hired from 24 February to 17 March, as well as the exemption of the stamp tax for the cash-integration procedures by way of derogation. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about concrete results and not about "ifs" or "buts," most of which in these days are filled with mouths. Despite all this, in the knowledge that everything is perfectible, we continue constantly to work and try to achieve the best for our citizens, for all those who really need help. In fact in the next decree, which will be much more substantial in terms of resources, it is previewed the possibility to increase the amount of the compensation of the self-employed and the professionals until 800 euros. I believe that the government has moved quickly on all fronts: it has immediately allocated billions for the employee's integration fund, it has provided allowances for self-employed workers forced to stop forced, it has immediately unlocked the funds for the municipalities, thus allowing timely aid for families who struggle to make the shopping to survive. However, precisely for that part of the population with the greatest economic difficulties, what you, Minister Catalfo, have called a further lifesaver, an emergency income to support all those citizens who do not come under the subsidies and support already identified: EUR 3 billion for a audience of about 3 million citizens who are in difficulty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Even before the crisis not all workers had access to social shock absorbers worthy of such names; some unfortunately did not even have access to a regular job and contract. So we can't just turn around and pretend like nothing. Since we entered the institutions of Movimento 5 Stars we have never done so; we have always put ourselves on the side of the weakest, realizing the income of citizenship, one of our battle horses, which today allows 2 and a half million people to exceed the threshold of absolute poverty. Now, however, we must think about the imminent future. The coronavirus in recent weeks has impressed on our minds a teaching that has become an awareness: no one, in the face of such a tragedy, can save himself. We cannot leave any citizen behind, because that would be an unforgivable mistake. The emergency income must become that parachute that will allow us all together to avoid falling into the abyss, the decisive shore to allow us to slowly restart when the virus has finally slowed down its spread. In the last month, Italian citizens, through the collection organized by Civil Protection, donated about 126 million euros. Other spontaneous collections were born from the initiative of individual citizens and associations, especially at local level. The list of companies offering money and supplies to the National Health System is extended day by day. Citizens in the vast majority of cases are complying with the restrictive rules that we had to give ourselves and make donations. Parliament is working to perfect and approve the urgent measures that have been launched, but something is missing: if citizens have raised so much money, if Italian companies and are not continuing to donate millions, what are Members waiting to do the same by giving up part of their salary? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. What do you know? How dare you. We have been doing this since 2013 and so can those of other political forces. We would collect over EUR 60 million a year and we could allocate them to hospitals, health care in general and the economic support of citizens and businesses. There are so many possible destinations for these funds and it will be a pleasant problem to choose which ones to prefer. It will be beautiful and important for those who decide to make this gesture and for those who will receive it, but unfortunately on this topic a disturbing silence always drops. Mr President, I should like to end by thanking the doctors, nurses, social and health workers and law enforcement, civil protection and all the volunteers who, in one way or another, are at the forefront of protecting the health and safety of all of us. A special thanks goes, moreover, to all those workers engaged to guarantee essential services for the country that could not stop even one day. Let us think of transporters, public transport employees, couriers, supermarket salesmen, agri-food workers and pharmacists. I hope I haven't forgotten anyone in that case. I apologize. I would also like to thank the INPS, President Tridico and all his staff, who are also busy day and night to ensure that the subsidies are paid to millions of workers. Here, too, we had a déjà-vu: it seemed to me to go back a year, when it was said that the INPS would never make it to pay in the indicated times the allowances for the income of citizenship and, instead, again, the INPS with a great effort in support of the country and working during the Easter weekend has already credited yesterday almost two million bonuses with currency from 15 to 17 April to VAT matches, self-employed and seasonal workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, a heartfelt thanks goes to you, Mrs. Minister. Let me add that - who knows it - you are a person who is not inclined to seek visibility, but who works hard, achieving important goals for all citizens and all workers. We will support it in this path; we will be ready to offer our help precisely because we think that at this moment it is not necessary to run after the fake news or the sterile controversy of those who do not miss the opportunity to grab a television space or newspaper article. It is time to stand by the citizens, listen to them, reassure them and make them feel close to us. We leave the propaganda to others; the moment of judgment will come for everyone. We will work at your side and at the side of the Government precisely because we have said so and we repeat it in an even stronger way: no one must remain behind, especially now. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u57	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-207.ana.u59	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 21 April, at 2.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 15.45 p.m.)
