ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 2 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as is sadly known, Senator Lidia Brisca Menapace, who has been hospitalized for Covid in her Bolzano hospital for a few days, died last Monday. Brilliant woman, intelligent, strong and of great determination. His life has been the thrilling story of so many battles as a protagonist, in the name of those ideals of freedom, justice, peace, equality and equal opportunities that are the pillars of our democracy. Young partisan relay, during the dramatic years of the Resistance, never wanted to touch a weapon, but this did not prevent her from conquering the rank of second lieutenant and the patent of fighter for the courage demonstrated on several occasions in the rescue and saving lives. That same courage has always accompanied her both in the great political battles and in the daily commitment to the service of the citizens, especially those who are most fragile and need help. The first woman to enter the Council and the Junta of the Province of Bolzano, founder and authoritative signature of the daily "Il manifesto," Lidia Menapace was for many years one of the most important voices of Italian feminism and a symbol of freedom for many women. His work for a truly equal opportunity and equal dignity society between women and men is tireless, especially in terms of access to education and the world of work. His weapons were those of patience, persuasion and dialogue. Eletta al senato in the 15th legislature, Lidia Menapace was able to interpret the parliamentary mandate with great enthusiasm and passion, proving, on every occasion, competence, rigour and constant openness to confrontation, always constructive. A wealth of values that also marked his action outside Parliament's classrooms, in civil society, as a witness and promoter of a precious culture of universal peace to be opposed to any form of fear, violence and abuse. With Lidia Brisca Menapace he leaves us a great woman, an example of humanity, coherence and tireless fidelity to the values of the Constitution, for all of us and for many generations. In memory of Senator Lidia Brisca Menapace, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u5	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2020 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u6	Dear President, kind senators and kind senators, the European Council of 10 and 11 December presents a dense agenda of high priority issues for the European Union, both in terms of its cohesion, prosperity and stability and its role as a global actor. The central theme remains the fight against the pandemic by Covid, on which it is essential that a clear signal of cohesion be given by the European side. In this respect, the European Council is aimed at giving political impetus to mutual recognition of tests and effective European coordination on vaccines, with particular regard to their distribution. Only an international and European response, moreover, can allow us to overcome the pandemic, an objective that Italy is working intensively on, even in the perspective of the Global Health Summit, which we will host on 21 May 2021, within the framework of the Italian Presidency of the G20. To this end, we are working closely with the European Commission. The health dimension of the European response to the Covid must be constantly accompanied by the economic and social dimension. To this end, a solution remains urgently needed which, by implementing the agreement reached at the European Council on 21 July, exceeds the Hungarian and Polish veto and allows the timely launch of Next generation EU and the new Multiannual Financial Framework. I will place with the greatest determination and urgency the need for the ambitious investment and reform programme, financed with common debt, for which Italy has spent since the beginning of the pandemic crisis, to be launched as soon as possible. Citizens of the 27 Member States would not forgive a signal that contradicts the historic agreement reached on the adoption of central instruments for social and economic recovery and that represent a profound - and, I add, irreversible - paradigm change in the economic policies pursued by the European Union. For the first time, in fact, it has promoted expansionary policies, financed by genuinely European debt instruments and oriented towards achieving shared strategies and common objectives. This is an evidently and radically different response to what was in place in the past, when, in the face of other crises (think of that of 2011), choices were still adopted based on a logic of austerity, inspired by the priority criterion of debt containment. Those choices - history tells us this - have proved inadequate to bring European countries back into a perspective of genuine recovery and development. I would also add that they have all in all proved inadequate also with regard to the objective of debt containment itself. We therefore continue to support the efforts of the German Presidency-in-office of the Council of the European Union and the President of the European Commission to resolve this stalemate quickly, caused - as I have already mentioned - by the veto imposed by Hungary and Poland. I should also like to point out to you - and I do so dutylessly, but with the utmost caution - that, in the last few hours, it would seem to be a positive step forward in this negotiation. [[Applause]] I call on you to be cautious, because we are waiting to read what might be the proposal for an interpretative declaration, which is clearly shared by the countries concerned, as regards the conditionality of the rule of law. Of course, we absolutely cannot give up what has already been acknowledged and stated on this subject, but it would be an interpretative statement which is absolutely compatible with the objectives and principles already established. Let us see, however, I repeat: there will certainly be an evolution in this direction in the next few hours. The euro summit on 11 December will discuss in particular the reform package approved by the Eurogroup on 30 November, which consists of three elements: the reform of the Treaty establishing the now famous European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the decision on the early introduction of the support mechanism for the Single Resolution Fund, the so-called common backstop, and the agreement on risk reduction assessment in the Banking Union. As is well known, the reform of the ESM, which arrived on the Eurosummit table in December 2019, incorporated the introduction of the common backstop to the Single Resolution Fund, but from 2024 onwards. The Italian Government has acted in order to obtain the advance introduction of this mechanism, in the assumption to respect some objectives of reduction of the bank risk. It was important to proceed in this direction, since the Single Resolution Fund and the backstop mechanism, which is in its support, represent an essential form of risk sharing at the level of economic and monetary union, a key objective for our country. It was originally planned to proceed in sequence: first the reform of the ESM, then the risk assessment, finally the early introduction of the common backstop, through the reform of the intergovernmental agreement, which regulates the transfer and pooling of ESM contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. Thanks to the Italian contribution, the Eurogroup has reached an agreement, which will allow us to proceed in parallel: it will now be the task of Eurosummit to establish this agreement. To proceed immediately in context allows, among other things, to anticipate the introduction of the backstop at the beginning of 2022, then two years ahead of the original date of entry into force foreseen in the reform of the ESM, evidently on the basis of a overall positive assessment of the state of health of the European banking system and the Italian one, which, before the pandemic, had recorded a substantial improvement of its budgets. On this basis, it was easier to achieve the objective of early entry into force of the backstop. It remains, of course, in the full availability of the Chambers, through the parliamentary ratification procedure, the final choice on Italy's accession to the new ESM Treaty, also in the light of the more general state of progress of the economic and monetary union reform package. [[Applause]] However, if we try to look up, turning our eyes towards a broader perspective, we can agree that in order to change Europe, especially in the light of the dramatic crisis experienced in recent months, far more decisive is the way forward. In this latter perspective, I consider that the ESM must be radically re-examined so that it is transformed into a completely different instrument. [[Applause]] I would therefore like to announce that Italy, within the framework of the Conference on the future of the European Union, will be promoting an innovative proposal, which will lead to overcoming its nature of intergovernmental agreement, linked to a paradigm that I believe to be obsolete in relation to the challenges before us. The aim is to integrate the new ESM into the framework of the entire European architecture, also in order to ensure a greater link with the Union's institutions, which certainly offer greater guarantees of transparency and democracy. The model to be inspired, in building the economic policy instruments of the future at European level, is now ahead of us, and it is certainly Next generation EU. [[Applause]] , which I very much hope will become structural (I will reiterate this in all formal and informal forums of confrontation with other European leaders). The July agreement, which paves the way for an extraordinary financing programme, which will be fueled by common debt issues, is a result that until a few months ago seemed unattainable to many, but that was achieved thanks to a common effort, along a path not without critical passages. We have achieved this result by always moving in a constructive spirit and relying on the strength of the arguments and proposals. This agreement, together with the unprecedented support provided by the European Central Bank, through the extraordinary programme for the purchase of public and private securities, is objectively changing the profile of the European Union as a whole and, as a Government, we are determined to work to ensure that the new Europe definitively overcomes the narrow approach of austerity and embraces the path of sustainable development, social inclusion, energy transition and digital innovation for an even more competitive European economy, but also fairer, with particular regard, for example, to fiscal harmonisation. The government and - I am sure of this - Parliament will continue to work in this direction, aware of the difficulties, but also aware of the significant benefits for the States and for the European citizens themselves that can derive from a stronger and more supportive Union. From this point of view, we must not forget other important results that we have achieved in recent months, even if we sometimes risk neglecting them. I am talking, for example, about the Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (Sure), which is another step towards greater risk sharing. Sure, in fact, is also based on the issuance of common European debt securities in favour of all Member States. These are progress that strengthen European unity and solidarity in support of economic recovery and greater resilience from an economic and social point of view. Coming to the other issues that are on the agenda for the next European Council, among the priorities related to the European economic recovery there is undoubtedly that European green deal which the Commission is already working on from the pre-pandemic stage and which requires a full consensus on the Union's level of ambition for climate change and how to achieve it. This is a priority that Italy also intends to pursue in the perspective of the COP26 conference. You know that next year we will have the responsibility, together with Britain, for this which is the most important environmental and climate event. It is essential for us that this objective is accompanied by the financial recognition of the efforts already supported in recent years by some countries, including Italy, to advance towards the climate targets, as well as by a complete European attention, also in terms of incentives, to the social and economic costs of the green transition. Let's move on to another topic. It is expected that the European Council will also adopt conclusions on security, in particular with a view to intensifying intra-European cooperation in preventing and combating terrorism, particularly as a result of recent attacks in France and Austria. Italy is, of course, in agreement and committed to this and shares the objective of better European cooperation between police authorities and intelligence agencies. Our country also agrees with the continental action of prevention and countering radicalization, also through the removal of terrorist content on the Net. On the other hand, because it is inappropriate - and I would like to draw your attention to this - to the political link that someone wants to establish between Schengen and immigration, which has also been put forward in the European debate on security. With regard to external relations, the European Council will examine a number of issues of great importance, starting with Turkey. On the basis of the conclusions of the extraordinary European Council held in early October and the ordinary Council of 15 and 16 October, including taking into account developments over the last two months, we will be called upon to assess relations with Ankara and future prospects. First of all, I think it is essential for the European Union to speak with one voice on this issue and to be united, solid and credible. The signals to Ankara must be clear, but not triggering escalation dynamics. We need to maintain a window of opportunity to promote a positive agenda, because it is not in the European interest to raise tensions, and that is all the more so because we are talking about a country that is a member of NATO anyway. On external relations, the European Council conclusions will take note of a discussion on transatlantic relations with a view to giving impetus, with the advent of the Biden Administration, to cooperation between the European Union and the United States. In fact, if we believe that the United States, at least in the first steps of the new administration, will remain focused on internal priorities - I am thinking of the fight against the pandemic and economic recovery - we are also convinced that President-elect Biden, as he confirmed me during our first telephone conversation, will have a very positive approach to multilateralism and transatlantic relations and I am sure that he will consider Europe as an asset for the United States itself. However, it will be up to the European Union to propose and feed a political direction and a working agenda that can intercept the American priorities, particularly with regard to the global challenges of the pandemic, climate change and social and economic recovery in the sign of equity, inclusiveness and sustainability, which are also key pillars of the programme of the Italian G20 Presidency, which, as you know, has just begun. Moreover, among the other issues that certainly fall within the American priorities of common interest with the European Union, there is the revival of international trade as an instrument of growth, in particular through the reform, now really necessary, of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the desired overcoming of disputes and duties; and again, security and defence, also in order to finally overcome regional crises. We will therefore have to be determined to strengthen the European contribution to international security and development, in line with the Union's right ambitions to play a stronger and more visible role in the world, but also to be clear and transparent with Washington on what we Europeans mean - which we will have to ask very carefully here - for "strategic autonomy" of the European Union: we must decline this concept and load it with positive political meanings - if you will allow me - in complete complementarity with NATO too. For European stability, with a view to greater security, sustainability and prosperity, the establishment of a full and effective relationship with the southern neighbourhood remains central. Italy is actively engaged in relaunching a strengthened and conscious partnership, based on a strategic approach and a concrete programme of initiatives, as recently shared at the Italian-Spanish summit on 25 November. In recent days the Med dialogue has also ended, an event that is perhaps the most important forum in the Mediterranean. I would like to thank the sponsoring bodies and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Di Maio, because this year too, although remotely, this event has been very fruitful and intense with regard to the exchange and relations that have taken place. The European Council also provides for the usual information of Chancellor Merkel and French President Macron on the state of implementation of the Minsk agreements. The information responds to the need - which Italy has always claimed - to also have a political discussion among leaders, before proceeding to the six-monthly renewal of sectoral economic sanctions against the Russian Federation. As regards renewal, I would remind you that the next deadline is 31 January: Italy has always worked to ensure that, near this deadline, there is a real discussion between leaders, always asking for an update on the state of implementation of the Minsk agreements. We want to avoid automatism: it is part of our ability to dialogue always to grasp and attribute to any sanctioning system the instrumental nature, avoiding that it is an end in itself. The issues under discussion at this European Council could also be added to the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom following the latest developments in the negotiations between Brussels and London, whose continuing distance on some crucial issues has made it necessary to make a final attempt at understanding through a meeting in Brussels between President Ursula von der Leyen and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Tonight there should be a further update on the point. We will see what concrete perspective we come to outline in the next few hours. However, our priority framework is very clear. The European Union has so far made a commendable move with one voice and with clear political direction. Among the issues still under discussion, we also have a hierarchy of importance. In the first place there is no doubt the need to reach a level playing field. We cannot allow any form of partnership, today and tomorrow, to allow a third country to take advantage of the opportunities and potential offered by the common market without subjecting itself to the same rules that all Member States respect. This is the first priority. Then there is a governance problem: we need to make sure that any disputes are resolved in a clear way, with a certain mechanism for resolving conflicts as well. Finally - I am not by chance indicating a hierarchical order of priority - there is the issue of fishing, which is important for many countries. It is, of course, much less so for us, but let us say that it is a subject of considerable economic importance. [[Comments.]] A deep and ambitious relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom was and remains in everyone's interest, but - as we have always said - not at all cost. This report must be balanced so that all Italian and European companies can compete with British companies in a fair manner. There is therefore also a need for consistent governance, which prevents the repetition of situations such as those related to the internal market bill on the Northern Ireland issue. Italy therefore reaffirms its support for the European chief negotiator Michel Barnier and President von der Leyen and remains convinced that unity between Member States remains an obligatory step in order to best protect the interests of citizens and businesses. Finally, I note that, in the context of uncertainty confirmed at this last negotiating stage, the work that Italy has intensified in recent months with all the Member States and with the European Commission for communication and preparation measures at the end of the transitional period, in order to be ready for each scenario, is even more essential. I'm going to conclude. The next meeting of the European Council will be another part of the path we are building to address the challenges facing our country and the community of states that has historically gathered under the emblem of the European Union. They are challenges - you can measure them yourself - very complex, numerous and of varying nature and intensity. In order to face them, we must all make an effort, each for its role and task, in order to return the meaning and synthesis to a collective commitment. I have often called in this House - you will remember - for dialogue and unity in opposition forces, and in some passages I have to admit that it has been heard. There is always what I have said in other places and circumstances: the table of confrontation with oppositions remains always open, but it is also important that there be maximum cohesion of the forces of majority. It is important to talk to each other, as are dialectical confrontation and variety of positions, as well as to overcome, in a superior synthesis, with a constructive spirit, the variety of opinions, because we must never disperse the energies. We must always focus on the objectives that we care about and justify our presence here and our action. ( [[Applause).]] The cohesion of the majority forces allows us - we are talking about a forthcoming European Council and an important future for Europe - to continue to fight in Europe. I assure you that I will take all the firmest determination to make the right critical contribution and also the courage to support a reform programme such as the one under way and also the process of renewal that is expected for the European institutions. In fact, the Conference on the future of Europe will soon begin, in which we will have to measure our impact capacity, our renewing energy and on this - rest assured - we will also launch an ambitious challenge to other European governments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u7	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u8	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Government, today we are called to express ourselves on more than one change: the reform of the European Stability Mechanism and the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement on the activation of the common backstop. It was impossible to find the official text of the reform. In addition, an agenda appears in the document available to the House where the reform of the ESM would occupy a position among the various and possible. The items on the agenda of the European Council are: Covid-19, climate change, security and external relations. I wonder why we are not here today to reflect on issues such as the situation in the eastern Mediterranean or Turkey. But let's come to us. What we are asked to endorse with or without a single vote would, in truth, require the expression of the senatorial will in two separate operations. The reform of the ESM incorporates the introduction of the common backstop to the Single Resolution Fund from 2024, anticipating it to 2022. This anticipation requires an assessment of the reduction of banking risk to be carried out in advance. I agree with the positive assessments carried out by the ECB and the Single Resolution Committee on the situation of impaired exposures - the famous non-performing loan (NPL) - and the loss absorption capacity. The results go towards a banking union that sees Italy already in an advanced position compared to the other European countries in relation to the organization of the banking system on the basis of what is indicated by the relative European treaties. Another issue is the "reform-non-reform" in which easier access to funding is expected through the submission of a letter of intent, rather than the signing of a memorandum. The enhanced condition credit line (ECCL) has been confirmed for countries with vulnerabilities, i.e. the enhanced line. Articles 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU) No 472 of 2013 have remained substantially unchanged. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, it is impossible to continue with this buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u9	Senator, you must conclude, however, because you have already run out of time at your disposal. Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u10	DRAGO (Mixed). I shall conclude, Mr President. Italy could therefore have access to the second credit line, but having a debt-to-GDP ratio of 158 percent, we understand very well that the use of enhanced surveillance is assured. Therefore, while the early activation of the so-called common backstop appears to be a desirable solution, both the variation that we should vote today and the use of the ESM appear obsolete. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator, finish your speech because I can't double your time, otherwise I have to do it for everyone. So have the courtesy to conclude, since we also have a direct television and we have to observe the times. Thank you. DRAGO (Mixed). The conclusion is that the reference to the recovery fund basically has a prospective vision of future development, while the ESM is already outdated. Parliament is sovereign; the task force is already here. There are some projects that are already ready and Parliament is ready and clearly available for loyal cooperation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the year we have spent and which is coming to an end has been incredible. Just a year ago the ESM was being discussed in this House and some of my colleagues and I voted against the motion for a resolution tabled at the time. It was exactly a year ago: I don't know if you remember, but I do. After the pandemic emergency, Covid-19, the theme of the ESM was the most debated in Italy during this year: the ESM was talked about in an unimaginable way. The public has probably spoken more about this than we have in Parliament's classrooms, and that should give us some thought. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr Conte, two elements have made this debate very unpleasant. The first is what we've heard about in the past few hours, which is that the ESM sucks and we won't activate it. I wonder what this is: perhaps a sense of responsibility? In my opinion not: this is a menephregism, an opportunism that smells acre of old armchairs, armchairs of Ministries, Ministers and also of Undersecretaries. [[Applause]] The second point is that you will speak to the European community in the next few hours. Then I ask myself, I ask you and I ask you, which community we are talking about, whether this community has instruments that sink and sink our European colleagues, brothers and friends. By the way, we have certain tools simply because we say that we will not use them. Is that the sense of community that you want to bring to Europe, President Conte? [[Applause]] Is Italy's political position really to say that we don't like this, but do we not want it anyway? From your words it seems that Europe is a kind of tavern, a great tavern that prepares nauseating dishes, which we will never order. We are concerned about this, about the fact that a European colleague and brother in a few months' time will be forced to order that nauseous dish and to feed it to his own citizens and children. [[Applause]] We must not be against the activation of the ESM and the reform. We must be against the fact that the ESM exists: that is what we have been saying for years. [[Applause]] We have discovered in recent days that in European procedures it is possible to set standards, which can then be bypassed. We have discovered that there are vetoes that are no longer vetoes. We have discovered that there are mandates to ministers who are not sent as official. We have discovered that there is an ESM that is above all jurisdiction. Then I ask myself: did democratic rules in Europe and Italy go completely wrong? I shall close this very brief speech by simply saying what I basically said a year ago. We will say no to the ESM, because we want to say no to that austerity that does not rhyme with community. I appeal to all my fellow senators, simply remembering that what we do today will end up in black and white in history books. Let us think about this, ladies and gentlemen. I appeal to all former Members of Parliament, who are most of them today, and to all those who flew to Greece on 5 July 2015 to support Greece's no to the troika. [[Applause]] I appeal to all my former colleagues and colleagues, saying that what matters is not the drop point: what matters is the landing and we are afraid that you are taking us to the ground with you. [[Applause]] On July 5 in Syntagma Square in Athens there were two big 5 Stars: one is outside the institutions and his second term is held tight, while the other presided the Chamber of Deputies this morning, even with the votes of the center-right. These two bigs in Syntagma Square in Athens said: If we were Greeks, we would vote no today. Then I say to you and ask you: let us prove that we are Italians and let us vote no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u12	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers and colleagues, even those who look distractedly at the headlines know perfectly well that the last few days have been turbulent. It is clear to all of us, even to those who have given a superficial look at the headlines, that it has been tumultuous days to arrive at this debate and the majority resolution, which is as verbose as it is hesitant about the key points. It is 17 pages and we know that there are several issues on the agenda. You have listed them and I thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. But the central point - I repeat - is rather hesitant. And in this verboseness everyone will read what he wants. That's the risk. Some friends of the 5 Stars will read that in the meantime it is yes, but then we will meet in Parliament for ratification. That's obvious. There is no need to write that the Treaties must then pass through Parliament, unless there is precisely the reverse thought, namely that, when ratification comes, then we will see it. Others will read us a less peremptory and less definitive reserve. But I would like to warn you that all the Italian efforts that you have proposed, and that I also feel like sharing, do not have such a short time. So there is a commitment on his part to try, but there can be no commitment not to proceed if there is no overall reform, because this would lead us not to the Greek calende, but exactly so. Mr Gualtieri and you also know perfectly well how difficult it will be to reform the banking ESM, which we are talking about, in the light of the package. It is also desirable - for goodness' sake - but we are not alone in dictating the law in Europe. In any case, we continue to give the impression that we have back thoughts compared to the half-full or half-empty glass you want. On the contrary, we at +Europa-Action have tabled a resolution - which you approved in the House and we thank you for that - which is much shorter, clearer, clearer. We do not want to tell you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about the situation. We want to tell you that we are clear, clear, precise, without going around too much. I am convinced that the European Union has demonstrated on the pandemic that it is far-sighted and generous more than it has been described in recent years. If I remember correctly, only a year ago it was necessary not to approve the ESM; now it is, but it depends. I believe that the contractual force - and you know this very well - lies in arriving with clearer positions, even to be more credible and more listened to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u14	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u15	Mr President, we are on the eve of an important European summit, which concerns not only the ESM - you reminded us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - but also climate change, the outcome of Brexit, security after the terrorist attacks in France and Austria, transatlantic relations after the elections in Biden. On the other hand, the Italian political debate focused mainly on the reform of the European Stability Mechanism. Nobody underestimates the importance of this debate and I have the utmost respect for the political forces, both those of majority, our allies, and those of opposition, who have deepened and tried to understand. Frankly, however, this debate has sometimes seemed to me to be above merit. The change in the functioning of the ESM, the creation of a bank crisis risk instrument and the Single Resolution Fund are issues on which Italy has been working for a long time and are on the tables of the Eurogroup debate since 2017. It was at its meeting on 13 June 2019 that a broad consensus emerged from the Eurogroup on the proposed revision of the Treaty. It was June 13, 2019: everyone exercises the memory to remember who was in the government. Could and can Italy, with the role it plays in Europe, with the Europeanist choice that is the fundamental trait on which the Government that today leads this country is born, vote against an agreement that sees all other countries agree, after having worked and contributed in an important way to modify it in line with Italian interests? It could and can block this reform, if - as you said today, but we know - it is not currently expected - and will not be expected, after this decision - in any way to activate the instrument, on which Parliament will then express itself? Some people see potential risks, I see positive potential. But it will be a discussion that we will have when we decide to activate it if necessary. This debate has nothing to do with the agenda today. Frankly, I believe that many of our European allies have witnessed a bit of disbelief in our debate, so heated and so involved. I hope that everyone will feel the responsibility to make it clear that Italy is a stable, pro-European country and that it believes in Europe. You know, in fact, that of the 750 billion of the recovery fund, Italy will be allocated the largest part (207 billion); Italy is also the largest beneficiary of the Sure fund, of which you have also spoken today, and we speak of 27 billion out of 100. The European allies look at us and ask questions. We are concerned about the ongoing debate on the governance of the recovery fund. I am sorry, Mr President, that you are taking part in the summit despite the fact that the debate on this matter is still open, although I trust that it will close well, but it is obvious that Europe cannot decide what the governance structure will be. It is equally obvious, however, that Europe is concerned about the objectives. As you know, the Mechanism works an advance on the part of the State, but then Europe, before providing the funds, will look at whether the intermediate and final objectives follow from those of the projects and, therefore, we are all interested in the proper functioning of the Mechanism, including Europe. In addition, most of these projects are cross-cutting. There has been a surreal debate and it is said that the Ministries do not matter anymore. But they are transversal projects that concern not only several ministries, but sometimes also local administrations. Frankly, that it is not expected that an instrument such as the mission structure at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers can be used, I do not understand it, partly because I am honored to have been part of a government chaired by President Renzi and then also that of Gentiloni Silveri, and mission structures there were: I remember Italy sure, the projects for safety in schools, thought, if we want, also on issues of strict competence of the Ministries because they wanted to give a greater impulse, an acceleration. It is obvious that the Ministries are involved and that the Council of Ministers is the protagonist. No project can go on if you think you can exclude the Ministries. There is a truly surreal debate going on for those who have had some experience of government, and it is right that Parliament should give the guidelines. You have said that many times and we believe your word. This is an important point. It is also right that this structure should not enter the budget but should be proposed by an ad hoc decree. I also take the opportunity to tell you that the foundation of cybersecurity would be an important tool if it were about startups and training, but you should always be careful if you enter national security profiles. I think it's good to discuss it. You mentioned European intelligence, and therefore, having the opportunity to speak to you directly, I would like to raise this concern. These things are obvious. Faced with a Europe that for the first time - you said - invests significantly and Italy is the nation that benefits most, frankly the concern of all of us should be how to prepare the projects. I know that this is the debate you have had in the Council of Ministers, and this is the debate we have to have in Parliament, because Italy needs this today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u16	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u17	I am pleased, and I am happy to do so, with you, Mr Conte, and with the Ministers, Mr Gualtieri and Mr Amendola, for the contribution you have made during this period to the identification and affirmation of solutions at European level and for the results you have achieved in European policy on the two fronts that characterize the European policy of a country like Italy: the external one of the negotiations in the Community and the internal one, here in Parliament and in the country. With reference to the work done in Parliament, I would also like to extend my appreciation to Mr D'Incà. I know that the MES was and is not an easy theme for the Movimento 5 Stars; not easy, but - I think for a long time - not impossible. Sitting in this position here in the Senate, surrounded by Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, I have made impressions and perceptions - sometimes you listen without wanting it - that the MES was not an impossible subject. This political force, which you, Mr Conte, certainly know much better than I do, needed a commitment to didactic pedagogy. It seems to me that this commitment has finally taken place and has borne fruit, even allowing a force that was so different when it appeared on the scene to discover that it had nothing against Europe. [[Applause.]] Well, I think you were right not to force us today by asking for permission to use the health mss. I repeat: I think it was good. However, I am one of those who think that you should take this second step soon. Why doesn't this happen? I intuit two possible reasons of Realpolitik not confessable, and I hear instead of a reason, that of stigma, in my opinion not real. As for the unconfessible reasons, the Health MES certainly has a constraint, which is that of direct and indirect health spending. I would call it a blessing, because in Italy the health system by its own strength does not have the capacity to generate 37 billion consensus in this and in the other House. But if they are to be destined for this, the 37 billion will be allocated to this. Another reason why perhaps he is reluctant is that the money of the ESM, for which the State would be undue, would go to the Regions, which in Italy manage the health system widely and which are not all necessarily of the same political color as the Government. I would call them "unconfessible reasons." We're talking stigma. Colleagues, allow me to be frank: the stigma, the disadvantage of the markets, strikes a country not because it makes use of a certain financial instrument, but for the economic policy and the government that that country has. Then I think it is appropriate to draw some consolation from the fact that the measure of stigma against Italy, although still high, has been reduced over time. Let me say, however, that the real stigma is that today, being at 120 points the spread of Italy, this exceeds 24 of France, 31 of Ireland, 60 of Portugal, 64 of Spain and 76 of Cyprus (Stigmatic country by definition, would be to say). Even in times of great financial storms, that many of us remember, the spread of Italy has always been under the spread of Spain, while today it is double. These are the stigmas to pay attention to, in my opinion. I shall conclude by saying that I, like everyone else, am very interested in what you, Mr President, are going to be presenting on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Two notes only: I think it is a matter of reviving public administration through the recruitment of qualified young people, and not of creating - as you do with companies sometimes - a bad PA and next to a good PA. Secondly, it is also a question of stimulating competition and combating stand-alone incomes, which I believe would be very much appreciated, especially by the forces that entered this Parliament in 2018. This would not be done by extending the wing of those who run public enterprises to the rest of the economy, also creating many possible conflicts. Good work on the remaining steps! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u18	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, colleagues, I will vote no today and I will also vote no when and if the Health MES is voted, asking for a derogation from my Parent Group or from whomever is responsible. I have serious reservations about all European fund matches. I honour those who voted no to the fiscal compact in 2012: to Senator Vitali, then deputy, and to my friend Guido Crosetto, because they were unworkable forecasts, you could not vote, so much so that today they are suspended. Italy appears to have already paid 14.1 billion to the ESM and has a multiannual commitment of up to 125 billion, corresponding to its share of 17.7 billion. In response to these speeches - like so many others in Europe - there is the transfer of sovereignty to Europe. With regard to foreign policy, Macron, two days ago, embraced al-Sisi and the case of Regeni made it a mustache, admitted and not allowed that we must wage war for Regeni. On the economic front: German and French banks are full of derivatives, they have problems. The purchase of our companies is at real estate prices, but do you try to buy a French company? That is European solidarity. Civil rights: the euthanasia that preaches to us in Holland, a society without roots, without history, without principles. How have you financed the deviations so far approved up to 108 billion? With public debt, with the idea of subsequently applying the substitution mechanism, i.e. allocating European funds without increasing the debt too much. The European funds are all debts, they are written to the documents, just read them in full: even the 80 billion of the recovery fund are subsidies that, if non-refundable or non-refundable, will be replaced by European taxes (on the environment, on financial transactions) or by an increase of the annual contribution from all the members, if they will accept, but it will be our future contribution to increase. It's written, I read it like this. They will be paid out to tranches and the only advantage we have is that they will be returned from 2027 to 2058, and we trust inflation or something else. Regarding the rate differences on the ESM, it is the market that decides. I think it has been explained well: the rate on the BTP may decrease. Can the MES, with our money paid, lend them to us and then ask for conditions? Yeah, it's written. With Greece it was another stage, but the sale of real estate assets - the airport, to name one - and others of all the little industry in Greece at real estate prices by the troika is a case of no return. It can be applied in Italy, possibly also to make other imaginative and fruitless expenses, typical of this Government, the assets. You talked about it, then you went back, but if you talked about it, it's because it's your intention anyway. The ESM, as it is constituted, has absurd privileges in its constitutive substance; it is beyond the law. He lends us our money in exchange for a memorandum in which we agree to higher taxes and different cuts from all points of view. The members of the ESM do not have civil and criminal liability, only inviolable as people and their homes, the disputes decide them: everything behind closed doors. I put everything on your plate: how can the center-right support and vote yes to these conditions in which we live in these times? I deliberately leave out - because it is not today's subject - the management of the pandemic. You mentioned this earlier, Mr President, when you spoke about Libya: the fishermen are still there, but for the previous hostages you paid 10 million each. I avoid making names out of respect. [[Applause]] But since I like to deepen the economic issues, I ask if the natural gas and oil deposits of the Adriatic if Greece and Croatia take them, digging and going to get them also under our sea. Of three banks that we financed, Monte dei Paschi, Popolare di Bari and Carige, it seems that an idea of some party of the coalition is to make it one public; how beautiful, when we took twenty years to make them private. To be sure, if this does not happen, you have already catapulted Padoan from deputy, elected to Siena, directly to Unicredit to be president and to buy Monte dei Paschi. [[Applause]] Alitalia is a bottomless well. Three hundred recovery funds commissioners don't like majority parties either. As regards the appointment of the commissioners for public works, I would remind you of the appointment of the commissioner for the tunnel of the Colle di Tenda, in the province of Cuneo, and thank you in advance. What then? National loan, redimable or irreditable: just present it well to the Italians. I speak to the ordinary people who tell me: if I had to pay a thousand euros and I were sure that everything went well I would do it; if I had to sign the public debt... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Fondo degli Italiani, valorization of real estate: without these things, without the Italians starting to believe again, there can be no growth, which however must be pursued with less aid and more freedom of enterprise, with less taxes and less constraints. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u19	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, it is an emotion for me to be able to speak today, because I am thinking of all the millions of Italians who would like to say something to you this day, especially during this period, after the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which we have received with great astonishment. At Christmas, on festive days, we will all be contingented within our Commune, Mr. President Conte. Maybe, if he's careful, without looking at the phone; I don't know if he thought that in this country there are also municipalities of one, two or at most three square kilometers, with twenty or thirty inhabitants. [[Applause]] At this moment these municipalities, two or three square kilometers, with about thirty inhabitants, are submerged by two, three meters of snow, because we have seen what are causing in this country the climate changes that you mentioned before. I don't know if you've thought about these people; I don't know if these people even thought about all the task forces, which I think are about 15. Fifteen task forces, over a thousand consultants, to give birth to such a DCCM: it seems very little to me. So, my best wishes go to all those people who will be locked up in the house during Christmas. [[Applause]] However, I allow myself personally, but also on behalf of the League Group to which I belong, to ask you to reconsider, President, because widening the entire perimeter of the Province would certainly not be a small thing. I also wish all those 70,000 representatives of the Forces of Order who you mobilized to control the Italians: my sincere wish for Merry Christmas goes to them. [[Applause]] Maybe, President Conte, distract some of those agents to escort Brumotti when he goes to investigate drug dealing, because he always leaves alone and I assure you that in this country of drug dealers we have so many. Somebody send him over there. [[Applause]] You talked about COP26 and surely this is a great event that will take place in 2021 in Glasgow, England. You will certainly take care of the G20 and therefore it will be a great adventure from the environmental point of view and a great showcase for this country. Here we need to reflect: you will bring the environmental experience of Italy, which will compare with that of England. But we know that England, from an environmental point of view, has made great investments and even said that, by 2030, for all mobility, it will give up petrol, diesel and all hydrocarbon fuels. Mr President, what are we bringing? Toninelli's scooters? [[Applause]] The scooters of the former minister and today colleague Toninelli cost the country 120 million euros and then, magically, the first autumn rains and the first colds, disappeared. [[Applause]] So we invested 120 million euros to buy toys from former Minister Toninelli and a few other lucky Italians. [[Applause]] With 120 million euros we could do a lot of things: I think of all Italians in the Cassa Integrazione, who haven't taken anything yet. [[Applause]] This may be rhetorical, but you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, could tell Minister Costa to give this EUR 120 million perhaps to all those mountain farmers who no longer have the money to go on and are abandoning their territory. It would be good to preserve the territory from the hydrogeological failure [[Applause]] Since I'm out of funds, Minister. [[Applause]] I am beginning to conclude, because it seems to me that my time is up. On the other hand, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your sensitivity has been demonstrated when, in your speech, you said that fishing is of little importance to our country compared to other European countries. I would like to remind you that fishing in Italy is worth over EUR 800 million, an important part of GDP. From this statement we understand why Italian fishermen have been kidnapped for over a hundred days, but you and the government have forgotten about them! [[Applause]] To the Italian fishermen I wish Merry Christmas and the wish of the entire Lega Group. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that this Christmas will not allow the Italians to wish themselves well, because I believe that the Italians, of their wishes for Merry Christmas, will do little this year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, in recent days many observers have been involved in presenting today's meeting with the communications of the President-in-Office of the Council, mistaking their objectives. First of all, we need to focus the debate on the real issue of the European Council, that is to get to the rapid release of the resources of the recovery fund, fundamental for the relaunch of the country. Secondly, the modification of the ESM, a mechanism already in existence since 2012, approved and endorsed during 2011, by the then centre-right government, supported by the League and by various representatives of what would later become the Brothers of Italy party. [[Applause]] This is to make it clear, once more, who did what about the ESM. This amendment to the Treaty certainly has lights and shadows. Among the positive aspects, also obtained thanks to the commitment of the Italian Government, there is the advance to 2022 of the so-called common backstop, that is the possibility that the resources of the ESM support the Single Resolution Fund for banks. Thanks to the negotiations conducted by Italy it was possible to base the sharing of risks associated with the common backstop on the assumption of the clear reduction of risks, carried out by the Italian banks, until the arrival of the pandemic. But our position on the MES and therefore on its use did not move a millimeter. We in Movimento 5 Stars believe this institute is deeply opposed to a true Eurounitarian logic. For us, the ESM is anachronistic and improbable in a European Union, which in the new historical phase, which opened after Covid, has already begun to change before our eyes, finally adopting solidarity and inclusive solutions. Of course, these solutions are still not enough; some are still being defined, starting with the other elements of the economic and monetary union reform package accompanying the reform of the ESM, first of all a European banking deposit insurance scheme (EDIS), which is the missing element in order to actually complete the banking union. Precisely for this reason, before possible ratification of the reform of the ESM to be carried out by Parliament, we will reserve the right to consider whether there has really been adequate and proven progress on the other elements of the reform package. [[Applause]] We will continue to be vigilant in the knowledge that there can be no progress only on the part of the package without there being any progress on the entire reform path, but that is precisely why we believe it is important for Prime Minister Conte to treat in Europe an overall framework of reforms that are indispensable to the future of the Union. As the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly said in his communications today, the stakes for building a Europe that is profoundly different from the past are much higher than all the issues discussed before the arrival of the Covid-19, including the reform of the ESM. The pandemic crisis has clearly shown that the only possibility for the European Union and monetary union is to build more and more federal institutions with a common budgetary capacity, which can indicate the main priorities on which all European countries will have to invest in a spirit of cohesion and unity. The recovery fund model is the virtuous example to follow in this respect and must be made structural, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said. Alongside this, the role of the European Central Bank must be strengthened to protect the financial stability and growth of the eurozone, and there must be a radical review of the budgetary rules whose inadequacy is now before everyone's eyes. I would like to reiterate once again that as far as we are concerned with the 5 Star Movement in the Government there is no possibility that Italy will access the MES loans, a real sword of Damocles on the head of our development and future generations. [[Applause]] Returning to the debate on the agenda, it appears all too often spoiled by sterile and instrumental typhoseries, far from the need to focus on a serious proposal to get the country out of the crisis and project it in the coming decades. It is regrettable that the introduction of these quarrels was, among others, also some former President of the Council, more likely to disperse energies in the management of his own ego and its marginal political calculations, than in the resolution of the problems of the country. Not bad because at Palazzo Chigi today there are those who, with the support of the Movimento 5 Stars, are trying to trigger an epochal change in the European institutions, because an emergency like that of the Covid-19 has shown all the limitations of the economic policies adopted previously [[Applause]] A bell is not enough to make a President of the Council. Giuseppe Conte has immediately demonstrated, with his abilities, that he is up to the new course and has always done so, since the beginning of the pandemic crisis, with great responsibility and above all with extreme transparency. I would like to remind everyone why we are here in this House, that is, to solve the problems and to draw a future for the country. It cannot and must not be reduced to a yes or no to the ESM and its reform; it is a matter of drawing a much broader picture for our children. The European plan for restarting is called Next Generation EU and this name has been chosen precisely because the plan must be directed towards future generations and must not be limited to overcoming the contingent economic difficulties and the crisis. In conclusion, it is to this overall picture that we must look at; a picture finally made of common debt securities to finance the recovery fund, with the prospect of making it stable, of monetary stimuli finally expansionary by the ECB, of the opening of a debate on the amendment of the Stability Pact after its obvious suspension. Let me tell you that you don't need characters related to the first Republic that look like that bounty hunter who said something like, hey, you know your face looks like a $2,000-valuer? Yes - they rested - but you don't look like what cashes them. To you translate the metaphor. Compared to the starting point (March 2020) a long way has been taken and we are here to allow the President of the Council to do so much more. President of the Count Council, you are a good person and in this Chamber I have suffered to see how political criticism, of course allowed for charity, has often become a burden on your person and the work of the Government. Today that I have the opportunity to counter this unacceptable behaviour for myself, I do so without delay and I renew the esteem and confidence of myself as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand the position of those who, not far away, have also begun the debate on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). I remind myself that he began with the first Conte government. It's definitely campaign propaganda, it's all instrumental. The ESM has existed for ten years and in order to be there Italy has also paid several billions. The reform does not imply new expenses and does not create new conditionality; I therefore do not understand why some political forces have insinuated in recent days the apodictic judgment on the alleged inadequacy of this credit line for our country, which has often been repeated without being accompanied by some rigorous analysis. In fact, the Bank of Italy does not think so and the major economists do not think so; it is good that in the end common sense prevailed. The reasons for the no at the ESM would have created confusion in the European Chancellors given the obvious demonstration of the inability to live historical moments without ideological splashing and instrumental reckoning. The point of fall has finally been had; we have avoided the bad figure, but in doing so an ever more chasm opens between us and the country. Perhaps people start thinking, Mr President, that before the anti-Covid vaccine, the political class needs to get the common sense vaccine injected. We do not take advantage of the German banks, as some people say, nor will we end Greece. With today's vote we decide the future together with others, according to the pacts that the various governments of recent years have signed. Governments in the image of the Covid areas of Italy, as divided at this time: yellow, red, green. By voting yes, as I will, by announcing my vote in favour, we will recover our credibility in Europe by hair. It is clear, however, that a matter such as this should have been sealed by all the parliamentary forces. That's what I wish. In this majority no one thinks that we are the substitutes for the begas of others, and cannot be the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Star Party of struggle and government; decide your destiny because we do not want to depend on yours. My political history has seen struggles of currents, but ideologies and smokes without meaning ever; no, never. For today, the crisis seems to be averted. So, however, it is difficult to go on and, above all, grows around anger and disappointment and the cart with square wheels, as the Censis said, progresses with difficulty, barely. Of course, for the wagon to go fast, everyone needs to help, not only with the ESM today, Mr President, but also with the recovery fund. Parliament therefore regains its centrality, mortified by this frayed institutional chain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am among those who believe that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have done the right thing to proceed along the path outlined by Minister Gualtieri when, weeks ago, you gave your consent, the consent of the Government you represent, to the reform of the ESM. Moreover, it is a reform that is not at all pejorative; moreover, remaining in a different position would have meant isolating the country that you represent and hindering, deeply hindering, the path of recovery fund. No use then. It is the reason why it is incomprehensible, all the more so if it is read in the large house of the European People's Party, the attitude of Forza Italia, which has held and continues to hold - I am absolutely delighted and I recognise this - an absolutely important but incomprehensible framework position precisely in the case we are discussing. At the same time, President Conte, your communication has not reassured me at all. We have been discussing for more than a week what could have happened today: an arsenal ready to explode, but that certainly - and we knew it - will not explode. This, however, does not mean that the path is not rough. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would have hoped that you in this House today, in front of the Senate of the Republic, more than talking about the substance of the European Council, would have taken the bull's head by the horns. The head of the bull has exclusively political horns, because the path we are walking is rough and needs a vision that is you who must deliver to the parliamentary assemblies. It is bumpy because today we have the reform of the ESM; tomorrow we have a gigantic task force, on which my opinion is known (but I will repeat it soon); then we will have the central theme of the recovery fund; the day after tomorrow we will have the question of two non-secondary regions, such as Lazio and Emilia-Romagna, who ask to be directly concerned by the issue of recovery fund. Finally, but not least, the question will remain open whether or not this extraordinary Italy will use the ESM funds. I wouldn't worry much about the reshuffle. There is a sort of underground reshuffle that has been going on for some time, made up of Commissioners who have extraordinary powers. If an elephant-sized and mastodontic task force were to take place, Ministers would in some way be deprived of primary functions. Above all, we are faced with an underground, but continuous modification of the Constitutional Charter when - and I am not talking about the DPCM, an issue that you discussed and in some way included within a framework of parliamentary life today more proper than it was in the spring - we are talking about an almost exclusive apical relationship between the Government and its leaders and the Italian Regions, with Governors who now have powers superior to those who sit in the Executive. I shall conclude quickly, Mr President. We often cite the past, recalling an example that is very improper, the war, comparing it to the pandemic emergency. However, this is not an example to be considered. The example to consider refers to what the then President of the Council, Alcide De Gasperi - as I say, who did not come from that story - did precisely in the place you occupy today. De Gasperi came to the House - it was 1948 - and, after strengthening his majority, asked for confidence on one point. He said: Today I need to trust the Italians. And since this time... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I have really finished and apologise for overtaking. He said it was he who needed to show confidence to the Italians. This is not spring: then there was hope, today the risk is apathy and resignation. Follow that path, involve Parliament more, use Article 120 of the Constitution more when there is to unravel a difficult skein with the Regions and quickly release access to the ESM. Do we save little? That's 300 million. We greeted 50 million savings for cutting parliamentarians as if we had climbed the moon. It's 300 million here. Are we going to the free market to look for them? We'll do it soon, because BOT and BTP expire. Today we have the coverage of the European Central Bank, but we do not know what we will have tomorrow. Do it yourself, it is your duty to do what needs to be done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u27	Mr President, I have seen that a number of resolutions have perhaps been tabled a little strenuously. They're almost encyclopedic because there's always something to talk about. The majority resolution, for example, ranges from the new President Biden to the policies in the Mediterranean, except for some guilty omission regarding, for example, Islamic terrorism, which is often even more important than would be necessary. We, on the other hand, have chosen to present a resolution on the problem which seemed to us to be more difficult and difficult to solve, which is on the agenda of the Eurogroup and not also of the Council of Heads of Government and State. It is a difficult problem because, in my opinion, there is also an initial consideration that we can make. All the European instruments tend to be, but above all the ESM in the new role it comes to assume basically have a deterrent function towards possible speculations that can take place on the markets. Everyone will remember the famous phrase that was pronounced by President Draghi in 2012 when he said: "Whatever it takes ". He could say that - it was possible for him to state that sentence - because the request for aid to the ESM would allow the ECB, through the outright monetary transaction (OMT), to intervene in an unlimited manner on the market for government bonds in favour of the State that had requested it. The deterrent effect worked wonderably because it was not mandatory to use that instrument. Some changes certainly go in the direction of the greater deterrent of the European instrument that is being adopted; others, however, are substantial changes affecting the articles of the Treaty establishing the ESM. The first is perhaps difficult to understand, but simple in its analysis: it simplifies the path of access to the precautionary credit line, the famous precautionary conditional credit line (PCCL). This means that states that comply with the parameters set out in the European treaties (the famous 60% debt-to-GDP ratio, 3% deficit-to-GDP ratio and the possibility of return for the excess part of the debt of one twentieth per year) have simplified access. A unilateral letter of intent is sufficient for those States to have access to the CCPLs to undertake to maintain those requirements that are already in place. All States which do not have this possibility and do not correspond to these prerequisites can access ECCL, i.e. credit lines subject to enhanced conditions. In this case, the problem is that a memorandum of understanding (MOU) must be made in a negotiation between the State, the European Commission, the ESM and in this case also the Director-General of the ESM. The second important change is precisely the role of the Director-General, which becomes important to the extent that the political power axis is shifted from the European Commission to the ESM. Mr President, you are well aware that the ESM should have become a European Monetary Fund, but it was not possible to reach this agreement and it has remained an intergovernmental association. For this very reason, the role of the new Director-General today is very important and unconditional. This applies both to him and to his board. The Director-General of the ESM, however, presents a problem for us Italians. There are three ways of voting in the ESM: there is unanimous voting, there is an 85% vote, which is activated when there is an emergency measure to be taken and there is an 80% vote for the ESM Director-General. As you well know, Italy's participation in the ESM, as well as in the ECB, is 17.7%, while - as a case may be - France and Germany have 21% and 26% of participation respectively. They therefore have the possibility to give a binding opinion on the choice of the Director-General. The third pillar of the reform is backstop, a kind of parachute that is provided by the ESM to the Single Resolution Fund. As you know, the Single Resolution Fund amounts to some 60 billion, a provision provided by banks and financial institutions. This parachute - yes, as I said before - has an important deterrent effect because, if there were to be a possible default of a bank and a banking system, the Single Resolution Fund could first intervene in order to avoid the contagion and then the guarantee of the parachute provided by the ESM. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at a time when the temporary framework (so-called temporary frame) was possible to block the stability pacts - in addition to the consideration on state aid, which was made possible - and there was basically the great change in the basic paradigm of the European economic system, with the mutualisation of debt, which will produce the resources for the recovery fund, I realize the difficulty that you will have in Europe to take a strong critical position with respect to an agreement that, in some respects, had already been taken in 2019. The reasons for tabling a resolution are therefore quite simple and I would like to make them quite clear. The first, which we have written in our motion for a resolution, is that in defining the division of roles between the European Commission and the ESM, we believe that greater clarification is needed, particularly by excluding the entrusting of Member States' macro-economic surveillance tasks to the ESM, which would also duplicate the competences of the European Commission. The second reason concerns the assessment of those prerequisites I mentioned earlier for the possibility of access to CCPLs, which should instead become a general consideration of the macroeconomic situation of the requesting country. The third reason, which is very important and which I have not yet mentioned, is that any automatic restructuring of sovereign debts should and should be excluded. Finally, the fourth reason, which I have already mentioned, refers to the possibility of changing the numerical majority of those who will have to elect and appoint the new director-general, reaching 85% of the capital. I take this opportunity to take a few more seconds to say that, of course, as the Mixed Idea and Change Group, we absolutely cannot vote on the majority resolution which, as far as the ESM is concerned, proposes a downward compromise, clearly the result of the conflicts and difficulties that have occurred in the majority; on the other hand, we cannot even have access to a resolution that is a summary of the whole world, a programme of government, of your Government. We shall therefore vote in favour of our resolution, while the vote will be against the majority resolution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, since we all spend a minute or two in the speeches, I would ask you to stick to the timetable, because we have a quota for live television. Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u28	Mr President, the news of these days is presenting us with the climate change bill in a plastic way. I start from here, President Conte, because the debate that prepared this meeting and its communications, this morning in the House and this afternoon here in the Senate, was marked by attention only to one of the issues on the agenda of the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, hiding basically the others that, as far as I am concerned and concern us, are at least as important. Just these days we are faced with floods, floods, landslides, landslides, storms, high water in Venice. If we do not intervene, it is quite clear that it will be even worse than this. We will - and we already have - have devastating impacts on the ecosystem, on migration, on the economy, on the struggle for resources and on peace in the world. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the subject that you will be debating tomorrow on behalf of all Italians, on climate change - the second item on the agenda - is precisely this, a matter of extraordinary importance for our present and our future. It must be acknowledged that the European Union has not been firm in this direction. The first package - as is known to those who read at least a few cards - is from 2008 and has set the targets that happen to expire in 2020, namely, with regard to the basic figure of 1990, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, the increase of 20% of the share of energy from renewable sources and the improvement of energy efficiency by 20%. In December 2019, European leaders endorsed the objective of achieving zero climate impact in 2050, but Poland opposed; Poland, too, happened to be on this issue. From there everything was born a great work. In October 2020, the European Council discussed the Commission's communication on the new goal of climate neutrality in 2050 and on the major issue, also debated in the European Parliament, of the 55% reduction in emissions in 2030. Unfortunately, in this case, not only the MPs of the Hungarian and Polish governments voted against the motion in the European Parliament, but also the MEPs of the League, the Brothers of Italy and most of the MPs of Forza Italia. Exactly the opposite of our resolution, which instead goes in the direction of welcoming and pushing towards reducing emissions and achieving the target in 2050 through steps that can achieve this fundamental goal. I was saying before the European Union was not stopped. We have introduced the circular economy package in May 2019, the clean energy package, the reduction of CO2 emissions in transport, in particular with the regulation of rubber in April 2019, through laws that we voted in this Senate. Then there is the whole emissions trading system in the European Union, which is creating the largest carbon market in the world on our continent. Well, Mr President, if that is exactly what has been done over the years, it is now quite clear that the great challenge in the medium term is that of the pandemic. There is no doubt that the pandemic is defeated with a panecologic vision, understanding that we are one ecosystem. Every sovereignism is structurally completely incapable even of spelling out solutions. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, what closed and self-referential national sovereignty can defeat the issues on the agenda in tomorrow's Council? I am referring to the issues of the pandemic, climate change, security and the fight against terrorism. It is quite clear that Europe was at a crossroads: either it crashed into crazy destructuring processes, by some of us in this Parliament too, or it continued in a strong direction towards a process of integration. He chose the second path. Now, Mr President, on behalf of our Group, with regard to the green issue in particular, let us move forward with this great determination, because there can be no development unless it is socially, economically and environmentally sustainable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u29	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that we Senators of the UDC have tabled our own motion for a resolution in this parliamentary term. We do so in a very convincing way, after having spent these weeks trying to explain to the many people who come to meet us what this great debate on the ESM means, which at some point seemed to split the majority and even pose itself as an element of criticality regarding the government's holding. When we spoke with absolute clarity about the fact that we would vote in favour of the reform of the ESM - and I will explain this, I hope, with sufficient clarity - someone thought that we wanted to be a crutch to the government. We have reiterated in this regard more than once that we had no intention of being a crutch to the Government, also because, most likely, the Government would not need a crutch since, faced with the risk of falling, many people would have repented and, within the same majority, would have voted in favour. However, it was important for us to vote in favour of the reform of this Treaty, because the previous one in fact marked the fate of Greece in a dramatic way, by asserting the conditionality clause in the form of non-rigid but rigid control, with a hostile taste, almost persecutory; Merkel herself has returned many times to denounce the mistakes that Europe itself had made against Greece with that Treaty, with those rules, with those criteria of conditionality. Therefore, on this reform of the ESM - although not entirely satisfactory, although it does not fully meet our needs of a vision of solidarity of Europe, not of economic traction but of economic traction subordinate to a great social project, inclusive and capable of enhancing the new generations (it is no coincidence that the recovery fund in other places is called the New Generation EU and is oriented to take away from the shoulders of the new generations a kind of capestro and to free its creativity, the spirit of initiative, the desire to take back their future) - to this reform of the ESM our goal was to say yes, because the MSM we currently suffer from the impact we do not like. We want the reform of the Treaty because we really want the Government to draw on the ESM's resources with great intensity. We would like those EUR 37 billion, because they are much more than what the recovery fund has been allocated to health care. While we could have EUR 37 billion for the health of citizens with that instrument, on the other hand we know that there are barely nine billion, which is totally insufficient to start the reform process that we want. That is why we support the reform of the Treaty, because we support the resources of the ESM. This puts us in a position undoubtedly different from our allies of the opposition: from our allies of Forza Italia, who are in favour of resources but against reform, and from our allies of the League, who are against reform and against resources. But we are ourselves; we are a great and ancient centre structure, with our own vision of society, with our own economic vision, with our own cultural vision, and that is what we want to reaffirm today, with our vote in favour of the ESM, but contrary to the resolution of the Government, which, as my colleague said a few minutes ago, drowns in ten pages a row and a half in which he speaks of the ESM: obviously they have struggled very hard to find their point of convergence. On this fragility of the point of convergence will obviously be built further solutions at risk, with which the Government continues to oscillate, between Scylla and Cariddi, between one and the other. We believe that Italians deserve something more; we really believe that Italians must be given a clear, strong and powerful guarantee, that it is not a purely ideological dialectic, but an important position at the exclusive service of their health, for all those initiatives that we have often reminded Minister Hope. We would really like this to be the good time, in which the residents of the medical faculty, the elderly disabled and people with critical issues can find that famous social and health assistance to which we need to move the axis: from the hospital structure to the structure of the territory. We want a much stronger search. There is very little in the budget law for research. And research isn't just researching the vaccine. There is also research on rare drugs, research is also focused on promoting new forms of health and new responses to emerging needs. In all this, we would like to be able to reiterate that our no extends also to the extra-parliamentary steering booth which in some way offends and humiliates the whole of Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u32	Mr President, the first question I asked myself at the beginning of this debate is: who benefits? What are you doing? It is clear that if there is a vote, if there is a vote, there must also be a legitimate interest which must be pursued. The first answer might be that it benefits the country, but I don't think so. The debate and also the bleeding that we have seen in recent days on the pages of the newspapers by the Movimento 5 Stars, as well as the scouting that is taking place, still in these hours, out here, as well as the absences due to illness that we will have at the time of the vote tell us that the issue has many other roots. It happened to me, President, an interview that yesterday gave the President of the Fico Chamber, on the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening). The President says that the Movimento and the majority have a duty to support Conte. This is the article of the evening Corriere which contains the answer. Who benefits? Who needs this vote? Does it serve the country? No, this vote is for the sole purpose of the operator in order to continue to move forward. [[Applause]] It is for him who, today very distracted, once came to this House saying that he was the lawyer of the Italians, the lawyer of the people. But it is clear that, as President Fico says, everything must be done according to Conte's permanence to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, no matter the merit and no matter the content. It matters so much so little that the same Movimento 5 Stars, that a year and a few months ago voted together with the League a resolution that abhorred the ESM in its present form and in whatever form, until it included in the government program (and you did it) the plan to eradicate it, today with a deer (which I could define in a more colorful way) made by Crimi the other day on television, says that it does not like, it is not okay, it is not what Italy needs but we vote it and we do not know why. This extraordinary "super dick" is not what the country needs. The country needs a government that can say it freely when it says no. [[Applause]] The real problem, Mr President, is that today few people have the opportunity to be truly free and to be able to say no, because saying no also means giving the voice back to the citizens, for example, maybe it means taking a position that brings you into conflict with your Group, if you are really free from the bond of mandate and do what the people need, not what Casaleggio needs. [[Applause]] The problem, however, arises because at the moment when the 5 Star rhetoric has continued to undermine the foundations of our democracy, today in this House - and I am sorry, unfortunately, because there are also serious people that I respect - we find ourselves with so many parliamentarians who if they had to go home they would be forced to immediately fill out the sheet for citizenship income. [[Applause. Comments]] When it came to pulling the plug of the majority, we did it without thinking about our interest, but thinking first of all about the good of the country. Today, however, we are told that everything is fine, what matters is that Conte stands. But then I wonder why in your excess of democracy this time you left it in the drawer? Why didn't you go and ask your subscribers what they think of the ESM? Because you only do this when it suits you, only when you are sure that the outcome that comes out of that vote is the one that suits the maneuver. [[Applause]] You are well aware, at this moment, of using the same participatory democracy with which you rinsed your mouth. We can say today that we were against bail in, MES and fiscal compact, and we can say that we have never voted for these rules and rules. [[Applause]] , while you will no longer be able to do so because today you betray yourselves and your electorate. The distance that has been created in the country is not only the distance between you, the people who voted for you and the rest of the country, but it is also a distance that has been created between those who are at the bottom and those who are at the top. You here, in fact, today do only what is needed by the maneuver who is in the government and how much it takes to keep certain ministers to the government, perhaps those who have had to change two ministries and who are ready, as has already been in other times, to change even three, if necessary, in order to remain in the government. That is the reason for your vote today. I know you're not all bent to this tragic conclusion of your history. What you are told today, that everything is fine, is not true, because the ESM rules we know them, for those who have had the goodness to read them, and Article 136 of the Treaty on the establishment and functioning of the European Union states clearly and incontrovertibly that there must be strict conditionality. It is not the same thing to put on the same footing a rule with a letter coming from a European Commissioner. Today, if you make the wrong choice, you will put a noose around Italy's neck, and you mean to say that you reform that noose. [[Applause.]] Cappio is and noose stays! [[Applause.]] Once again, who needs this? It serves the President of the Count Council, because, as President Fico says, the majority has a duty to support Conte. Be careful: it does not say that it has the duty to support Italy and the country, but to support Conte, which is much more than the good of the country. [[Applause.]] Here the individual is confused with the general interest. And who is this Mr. Count, the Count attorney? That's what he said on January 30: We were already very vigilant and very careful in monitoring the evolution of this critical situation, we did not find ourselves unprepared. It's all under control. And again on March 26: "No one will remain behind." We've seen him well! On 6 April: immediate liquidity for all companies; we have put in the field a firepower never seen. Yeah, if we've seen her. He said, "We've increased the seats in intensive care." It's all under control. On October 25th: "We close everything to save Christmas." On December 3, he went on television to say: all closed home at Christmas. This person is not credible and his Government in Europe is not credible. So what do I say, Mr President, by closing my speech with great regret? If there is a way to be and to be in here, that is to represent the people, not represent the interests and bend to those who simply want to keep their minds on. No, Count doesn't do well, and if Count says it's okay, he's just lying. And the important duty that we have today is not to keep Count standing, but to keep Italy standing! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u33	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all, thank you for the communications you have made very clear, comprehensive and acceptable. Today is an important day for the Movimento 5 Stars, because it marks a significant stage in that path of change of European policies that we had set ourselves when we entered Parliament in 2013. We wanted to overcome austerity policies, we wanted a Europe of solidarity with countries in difficulty and not a stepmother Europe; we wanted a non-punitive Europe that would not impose sacrifices on states momentarily in crisis and that would not force them to cut pensions, salaries and essential services such as school, health and safety. We wanted a deeper banking integration, that guaranteed the deposits of savers and did not expose them to the disasters that had to suffer our fellow countrymen involved in the cracks of some Italian banks. Moreover, we wanted to abandon the absurd - and I stress absurd - paradigm of balance of the budget at all costs, of the Stability Pact, that is, that rigid and logicless rule that cast and caged our economy, preventing it from growing and freeing up all its enormous potentialities. Finally, we did not want a European Stability Mechanism, which was born as a sort of bank, outside the institutions of the Union, whose board is currently made up of people who have nothing to do with Europe. In essence, our goal was to change all the decisions that have been made in Europe and Italy, approved and ratified from 2010 to 2012, under the Berlusconi IV Government, supported by the League and the People of Freedoms, that is, by Forza Italia and by the National Alliance - which today the whole centre-right pretends once again to forget. [[Applause) -]] and only after the Monti government. What have we achieved in recent months and weeks, in conjunction with the pandemic that has upset the world? Basically five objectives: first, a pandemic plan for the purchase of government bonds by the ECB, first set at 750 billion, then climbed to 1,350 billion, and now we are talking about a further expansion between 500 and 600 billion; therefore, we are talking about absolutely colossal numbers, which allowed our country to keep the spread low; then, the actual overcoming of some rules of engagement, always of the ECB, in the purchase of securities, like the famous capital key, that is, purchases limited in proportion to the share held by a single central bank in the capital of the ECB. Another very important result: the suspension of the Stability Pact, which will certainly never be the same again, because we are the government: that is the difference. Then, the suspension of the strict rules on state aid, but above all we have achieved a fundamental result, which can really become a historic result in European evolution. We reached it between March and July this year, when we were able to first convince eight European countries, and then the whole of the Union, to set up the recovery fund (or Next generation EU, to say the least), that is, a completely new instrument, equipped with 750 billion, to face the pandemic crisis by Covid. This instrument is based, for the first time, on a common debt: a recovery that provides for Italy, as is well known, funds of 209 billion, 81 of which are lost funds. Other than the austerity of 2011, other than the ECB letter that August 5, 2011 [[Applause]] He arrived at the Berlusconi Government, with the list of things to do to avoid the default of Italy, given the results that those lords who ruled our country had obtained to the Government in those years. We of the Movimento 5 Stars did not settle for the 209 billion, for this result, albeit huge, that no one believed we were able to achieve. Our objective, as I said, was and is to continue the reform process in Europe, in order to change it forever and for the better, by changing its institutional and economic architecture. With the other political forces that support the Government we have met constructively and courageously - I acknowledge and thank you for your willingness to see the far-sightedness shown - and we have come together to decide, and today we are putting it out of the blue, that we want to change the Stability Pact profoundly as well. So what was previously a package logic that included three elements (the reform of the ESM, accompanied by EDIS and the BICC, i.e. the budget of the euro zone), now provides for two more, namely the profound reform of the Stability Pact and the changes in the economic institutional architecture of Europe, to which I mentioned earlier, which will be necessary to finally build a new Europe, a new season of European integration, which probably goes in the sense dreamed by the founding fathers. I would like to point out - and today we write this clearly and clearly in the resolution that we are about to adopt - that we expect that the progress of work on the reform or construction of these five elements of the package will have to go hand in hand and that Parliament will have to ensure that everything goes in this direction before the parliamentary ratification of the amendment to the ESM Treaty: this is essential for us. As far as the ESM is concerned, I have to say that in recent months and even today in this House we have witnessed an unworthy campaign of disinformation by the opposition. From March onwards, it was not a single day without Salvini, Meloni and others telling the lie that Count had signed or requested the MES Nometempo. Sometimes they said "signed," sometimes they said "required"; they didn't even have clear ideas. [[Applause]] Instead, the historical truth, written in the Reports of the Chambers and the Presidency of the Council, in the official papers, in the history books and in the chronicle books, is that the MES was approved by the Berlusconi IV Government, with inside the League and the center-right, at the Brussels European Council of 24 and 25 March 2011 and not today. [[Applause]] The truth is that on August 3, 2011, at 10.50 a.m. (I can also tell you the time at which you met), the Council of Ministers of that same Berlusconi Government... [[Comments]] I know it bothers you that you remember these things, your magicians. [[Applause. Comments]] Unfortunately you will have to listen to me; we are still in democracy, so you will do me the courtesy of listening to me. That government... the mask goes down because I'm talking and my jaw is moving. The Council of Ministers of the Government Berlusconi IV, strongly supported by the League, a Government that had as Ministers, for example, Calderoli, Umberto Bossi, current senators (who does not remember can ask them), as well as Roberto Maroni and Giorgia Meloni (were all the Ministers of that Government), approved the bill for the ratification of the MES. It was, I remember it once again, on August 3, 2011: you approved it. [[Applause]] That government approved that bill, because, among other things, the ESM was a tool that perfectly matched their political and economic beliefs, which the various Tremonti and Brunetta told us every night on TV. I start to conclude: today we do not approve of the ESM for the simple reason - as I tried to explain - that the center-right approved it first with the League inside and then with Monti between 2010 and 2012. Plus today... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Just one more minute, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u35	I would ask you to conclude, because it has already gone through.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u36	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Moreover today we do not activate the ESM, that is, we do not ask for the financing, because as long as there is the Movimento 5 Stars to the Government the line of credit of the ESM will never be demanded from Italy, because we do not need it. In fact, we do not need cash, as Mr Gualtieri said a few weeks ago, because we can finance ourselves well on the markets, so much so that we now pay negative or zero rates for securities up to seven years. I conclude: today, by adopting this resolution, we reaffirm Parliament's central role in the strategic choices of economic policy and make a fundamental step in Europe's path of economic and political reform, which will eventually see a Union fairer, fairer, more supportive, more forward-looking, more supportive and closer to Europe's citizens. We at Movimento 5 Stars are deeply proud of it and at the same time we are grateful to all political forces... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u37	He's already finished, please. You've been through more than two minutes. I recommended that we stick to the times and you went over for more than two minutes. Come on, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u38	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). We are grateful to all the political forces in Italy and Europe who are at our side in this ambitious project. Good work, ma'am. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u39	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, any external observer would say today that the debate on the ESM in Italy is more than strange: it is absurd. The real point is that this debate hides an old issue, which is not a matter of majority or opposition, but is the dividing line between those who believe in Europe and those who do not want to believe in Europe. As self-employed people and as representatives of a land that, thanks to the Union, has managed to heal the wounds of its history, we belong to the former and have always belonged to it, not only this year, in which Europe is writing one of its most beautiful and important pages. We had hoped that the recovery fund would finally turn euroscepticism into history, but we sinned for optimism. After all, if there are people who, in the midst of a pandemic, deny the existence of the virus, why not still believe in the refrain of bad Europe and ready to dictate its laws to Italy? We'd need a vaccine for that, too, because it's a virus that does a lot of damage. That is not to say that Europe is the best of the institutions possible. There is still a great deal to be done, in terms of fiscal integration and a truly common foreign and defence policy, with a reform of governance that increases the specific weight of the European Parliament and leads to a closer link with the Commission's work. There is so much to do to overcome vetoes and mistrust, guided by the idea that giving up a part of sovereignty allows to gain strength and influence in the economic and political challenges of the global scenario and this also through the consolidation of subsidiarity able to enhance the neighboring entities, such as the Regions and the Municipalities, that can best respond to the immediate needs of the citizens. We should discuss this, how to relaunch these objectives, in the context of a new European spring, in which the reform of the ESM is only a piece and perhaps not even the most important one. I am struck by the difficulty with which the majority managed to find a mediation and I am also struck by the position taken by those opposition forces, which until the day before yesterday professed to be pro-European. Then today we look at the glass half full, because Italy risked to give a hard blow to the start of this new season, which still clashes with the opposition of Poland and Hungary. Let's look at it this way, without forgetting that the reform of the ESM brings improvements, which meet the Italian needs. Italy, in fact, cannot be among the countries at risk default and woe if someone in this House thinks so. It is true that our debt is heavy, but Italy is one of the most important economies of the eurozone and has from its rich and articulated productive fabric. It is the country with the greatest potential for growth, if it will be able to reform itself - I am thinking of public administration, justice and tax evasion - and to make the best use of the resources of the recovery plan. Our fragility, tomorrow, like the other economies, such as Germany or France, could be in the banking system, because of the very hard crisis that we are all going through and the fact that there is common insurance is positive. Someone will say that we could pay for the failure of a German or French bank, but I say that it is not important if an Italian euro should go to these banks, because there is the holding of a common design, in which the benefits will always be greater than the costs, as we have seen in all these months, thanks to the ECB. Moreover, the entry into force of the backstop, two years in advance, does not mean only two more years of guarantee, it means that we do not know how the situation will evolve and therefore it is not written anywhere that today's conditions could be the same as tomorrow's. Then there is the rule against speculative attacks against countries on the edge of default. It will certainly not affect Italy, but those who have always agitated the spectre of great financial powers do not realize the gift they make not accepting the reform. Then the glass is half full, because it has risked to inflict a hard blow to the integration process, which has taken new sap just these months. What message would we send to the world? How much gas would we have put in the engine of all those who will come back to say that the dream of a truly united Europe is just a utopia? We could not afford it, as we cannot afford, in the middle of a budgetary session, of a pandemic, of the most serious economic crisis since the end of the Second World War, which opens the season of uncertainty and instability. Let us then close this debate and focus on the rest, starting with the recovery fund projects, with the full protagonism of Parliament and the involvement of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. We also do not exclude, for pure ideological reasons, the possibility of using the Health MES. In the draft plan, health expenditure is in sixth place, with a commitment of 9 billion, when they want to devote 74 to the ecological transition and 50 to digitalization and innovation; very well, but it is only 9 billion after all that has happened in these months, which has reminded us of the importance of a 360 degree health care, from basic medicine to advanced departments, to research, to the need to guarantee really all over the national territory essential levels of assistance. Let us make an assessment of the substance, based on the real needs of Italy; let us put aside ideological issues, let us think pragmatically. The pandemic taught us above all this [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u41	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are not just voting on the reform of the ESM today, but we are deciding whether we are a reliable country that follows on from our commitments, or whether we are just words that do not live up to the word given and question Europe; that Europe that is helping us to resolve and recover from the crisis from Covid and is going to provide us with the beauty of EUR 82 billion in lost funds and EUR 127 billion in loans. It is true money, the value of ten financial maneuvers that will serve to protect jobs, to save companies from failure, to remove families from despair; money that we demand is spent through wise and transparent choices of the Government, on impulse and under the control of Parliament, without having to invent smoky task forces, nor to have to attribute the improbable paternity to Europe. It is time for us to take a decision, partly because we have already blocked the country and Europe too much for months, both on the use of the Health MES and on the reform of the European Stability Mechanism today on the agenda. These are two different issues, both of great importance, because we cannot continue to ignore the dramatic health situation we are in and to insist on putting vetoes for purely ideological reasons. With several hundred deaths a day for Covid, it is criminal to insist on not using the funds of the Health MES, because the lives of thousands of people are at stake. [[Applause]] and it would be self-injury to oppose the reform of the European Stability Mechanism, which is nothing more than a financing instrument on which there should be no doubt, since the changes made improve its effectiveness and that we have contributed ourselves as a country to formulate them. What is introduced in relation to the possible use of the ESM in the event of a banking crisis serves Europe and can be very useful to Italy itself, because the burden of dealing with any financial problems of banks is not left to individual States, but is covered with European resources, i.e. it introduces common support shared by all. I find the debate quite exhausting if this reform serves Italy or another country more. This reform serves the European banking system in its entirety, which is very positive, and if the Italian banks were to enter into difficulties, as we certainly do not hope, with this mechanism we would have a kind of parachute, in defence of the financial system of the entire continent and of the Italian one. For this reason it is populist to continue to slow down a path that is useful to Italians, as well as to Europeans all. We in Italy Viva have no doubts: we are in favour of the European Stability Mechanism and its reform and we find it logical that the entire majority today reaffirms the European identity of this Government by voting in favour. Similarly, we consider it logical and urgent to resort to the Health MES, which would help us to avoid enormous suffering for individuals as well as for the country. Tomorrow's European Council is crucial for a number of further reasons, starting with foreign policy issues. Firstly, the European Union must not bow to the Diktat of Poland and Hungary. We are pleased, Mr President, to learn from your speech that an agreement would be reached. That would be a good thing, but only if concessions were not made on the non-respect of the rule of law. Italy must make this clear: money for post-pandemic recovery is valuable, but we are not prepared to be blackmailed to get it through the disappearance of Europe's founding values. [[Applause.]] The European Union must not make discounts to anyone in relation to the protection of rights. Therefore, we share the renewal of sanctions against those countries that continue systematically to violate human rights, as well as the harsh call to Turkey to respect international law. Great attention should also be paid to the Brexit affair, as well as to all security issues. I remember that on 14 December the anniversary of the death of Antonio Megalizzi, killed two years ago, in a terrorist attack in Strasbourg. In conclusion, Mr President, we must say a strong, positive and heartwarming message: Europe is there, Europe today offers us important opportunities and we in Italy Viva ask that we have the common sense to use these opportunities for the good of Italians and future generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u44	Mr President, President Conte has a high regard for himself and no consideration of the Italian people. In his speech and also in the majority resolution there is everything and nothing, the truth is missing and every vision is missing, while today there is a desperate need for truth and vision. His allies say he has too many powers, and maybe he wants to have all the powers. He swept away the press and the role of information with the live Facebook, as if Italy were a big brother; he emptied Parliament with DPCM, decrees to burst and trust placed to coart any dissent. He's now trying to exonerate the government with the management booth on the resources of the recovery fund, the treasure he considers his treasure. In this it appears as Gollum in the saga "The Lord of the Rings": my little treasure. You said Europe asked for it. The latter has blatantly denied it. President Conte, the party of the one is worth one, his party, has in fact handed over all power to one, all to her and whenever there is a decision to appoint, in turn, she appoints a task force of technicians who empty the institutions; technicians, in the face of one is worth one and her party applauds her as if it were her foundation. Today only the Movimento 5 Stars applauded him during his speech. The other members of the majority have been firm, except, of course, in the last applause, that which is not denied to anyone. Ask yourself why only the Movimento 5 Stars applauded it. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, you have no limit to your ambitions, so I would like to quote with respect what you think was a colleague of yours, perhaps a minor one, certainly, in your eyes, a minor one. Abraham Lincoln said in 1858: You can deceive everyone for some time and someone forever, but you can't fool everyone forever. I turn now to his party, to the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, citing a more recent successor of Lincoln, John Kennedy, who, referring precisely to that famous phrase of Lincoln, added, as if speaking to this Assembly, to you of the Movimento 5 Stars, the maximum of stupidity is reached not so much by deceiving others, but by deceiving yourself, knowing it. Well, here he is deceived and you are deceived, knowing that you are lying to yourselves. The government lied to Parliament a year ago when it stated that nothing was yet decided and that there was room for negotiation. So it was not and so it was not, because there is nothing new and significant compared to what we all knew a year ago. President Monti has defined this teaching pedagogy step, pleased with the one with which you managed to harness the Movimento 5 Stars. For the truth, a year ago - it was 29 November 2019 - in his first speech in the Commission, to the same Minister Gualtieri, to whom they had not yet taught the new language grillina, escaped the truth. In fact, moved by anger in responding to some of my observations, he said that everything had already been decided (it is reported in the shorthand report) and that it was in any case for the benefit of the country. So everything was already decided in November 2019. However, it was false that it was for the benefit of the country. So much so, that even you say and your supporters swear - we should say perjury - that Italy will never use it. If it is for our benefit, why should we not use it or exclude it from doing so? In December of a year ago, in this House, there was a pantomime linked to a motion for a resolution, prior to today's, which - heard, heard - expressly provided for the logic of the package between ESM, budget and banking union, in order to ensure the overall balance of the various elements at each stage. This was written in the motion for a resolution, but this did not happen. Mr President, your second government was born on this, on a great lie, and is trying to survive today with another great lie. Unfortunately - I say this with discouragement - this happens with reference to an act of extreme importance for the sovereignty of our country and that can lead precisely to its cession. This, Mr President, undermines the relationship of loyal cooperation which should be the basis of the confrontation between the Government and Parliament. The relative majority party of its government also says that you will not even activate the health line. In fact, you have already decided to activate it, but you do not even communicate it today, in fact, you deny it. Once again, deny and conceal reality first of all to yourselves and deceive yourself. You have already decided to activate the Health MES, as demonstrated by the recovery fund plan: only €9 billion to health; crumbs. [[Applause]] Hope had asked you for 58 billion and you gave 9. How come you didn't see them coming? Because you have already decided to use the ESM health line for this purpose. You have already decided, but you are still hiding it in Parliament and hiding it from the country. In terms of lies you are champions: you are the coalition and the government of Pinocchio, the cat and the fox. History will tell us who the cat is and who the fox is and where the thirty denarii are. On the substance, the ESM has three aspects. First of all, there is the saving of States, with States that are more equal than others. One's worth one! There are some states that can resort to it without paying a pledge (their states) and others that, if they resort to it, are Commissioners (we). Then there is the saving of banks, with banks more equal than the others (those of the countries in compliance with the European constraints, that is their countries and their banks). It is easy to understand what it is for and it is easy to understand that the reform of the ESM, with this new instrumentation, must be launched before Brexit, because you never know what can happen at that point. The rescue banks were not there during the Greek crisis, when they were to be saved - even then - the German and French banks too exposed on that country. Dear friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, the troika has dirty its hands to make the Greeks pay with the blood of the elderly and children, with social butchery that has no equal and with measures imposed by the bankers to save their coffers that not even a government of occupation would dare do; everything to ensure the rescue of the French and German banks and their profits. On the basis of that dramatic experience they have now become smarter, also because the instrument is so disqualified that no one dares to solicit it. They speak - and not by chance - of Greek stigmata, thus evoking the wounds that appeared on the body of Christ, to make it clear what is spoken of and how invisible the instrument is. The aim is, however, always the same: to save the German and French banks, where necessary. This reform serves them, who have in their belly mountains of derivatives. Do you know that Deutsche Bank alone owns EUR 50,000 billion in derivatives? If the bubble ever bursts, it would overwhelm the German financial system. The third aspect is the health MES. It is not part of the reform, but it accompanies it. You lied here, too. The Health MES in five months, despite the pandemic, no government has dreamt... ( [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ). 540 billion blocked: all this serves because only Italy, unfortunately, for the special conditions of its debt and its lack of growth, for which you are responsible, could be forced to activate it. Italy is certainly not Greece. We are much more attractive: we do not have only ports and airports, that China and Germany have already split up in Greece; we have the safe of European savings, which appeals to many; we have an agricultural, agri-food and industrial system that goes down mainly across the border. You are creating all the premises, with an uncontrollable public debt, and all the legal conditions, even with this reform of the ESM, to make us do the same fate as Greece, obviously with different instruments and methods, but similar in effect... ( [[The microphone is switched off automatically).]] Our resolution is clear and clear, your turbid and byzantine. We denounce him in this House and denounce him every day in the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u45	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council meeting scheduled for 10 and 11 December will address the issue of European responses to the pandemic and will see the Heads of State and Government dealing with a challenging and complex agenda, ranging from climate change to security, the fight against terrorism, the European Union's relations with Turkey and the South of the Mediterranean, to conclude with the euro summit dedicated to banking union and the union of capital markets extended to 27 countries. The next summit will also have the reform of the ESM Treaty on the agenda. As agreed at the last meeting of the Eurogroup, the reform, in my opinion, still has some weaknesses. While I agree with the part relating to the early introduction to 2022 of the joint support to the Single Resolution Fund for banks, briefly referred to as common backstop, I think it is more complex, on the other hand, to deal with the changes to the collective action clauses and the revision of the credit lines, on which there are still doubts to be resolved. As approved in the Eurogroup, these changes are negative for our country, especially those concerning the requirements of access to the ESM, such as the re-introduction of stability and growth parameters and the fiscal compact. By approving the reform, as it is written, we would accept the configuration of the ESM as an instrument that intervenes only in favour of States that do not in fact need it, penalising countries like Italy, with a high debt. Today, after having closed a long and difficult negotiation phase, it is essential that the financial resources in support of the national recovery plans flow according to the planned timetable, to which the member countries have entrusted to a very large extent the expectations of economic recovery. We are talking about 209 billion resources, which are an enormity, an unprecedented order of magnitude and a huge opportunity, which should not allow for any margin of error, delay or dispersion. Parliament and the Government are responsible for these choices and respond to them to the country and the people. I do not hesitate to define the epochal vote to which we are called today. We have well known the old Europe, the Troika, the deadly program that has brought a country like Greece to its knees. In the aftermath of the 2007-2008 crisis, the only way the European Union could react was a massive injection of austerity, which we must overcome. To correct that philosophy, the program of the 5 Star Movement, at the time we were candidates, undertook to radically modify these institutions. At present, the ESM is not, as one would say, an institution that is directly owned by the European Union, but rather an intergovernmental and non-elective mechanism, which has a huge power of influence in national choices, without, however, having political legitimacy. No country has been able to access it so far. A lot of people think that health activation... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] would not imply conditionality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. De Bonis (Misto). Today we finance ourselves at negative rates on the markets, which are in sleep, so it would not be convenient for Italy to supply itself at higher rates with the ESM, unless the spread returns to rise. As long as the markets are in this calm situation, the ECB will be able to help us, but let's not forget that in this three-year period the government has predicted that our public debt will increase by about 500 billion and the rate of debt growth will be higher than that of GDP growth. This means that if we were to activate ESM-related credit lines today, there would be very damaging conditionality for Italy. We believe that the government is moving properly, because tomorrow's Europe must be inclusive, supportive, respectful of sovereignty and sustainable, without unelected institutions that monitor, control and in fact impose their globalized and ultraliberal vision. For this reason, I have signed motion for a resolution No 6, which is absolutely binding on the introduction of amendments to the current text, in the direction of assessing the prerequisites for access to credit lines, clearly excluding any automatic mechanism for debt restructuring. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, there is one element that might seem obvious in the debate, but it is not, and I think it is quite crucial. I am referring to our relationship with the European Union. Just over a year ago, Italy was walking along the avenue of dangerous isolation, thanks to those who invoked full powers from the beaches of Papeete and shook the eye of Orban and the remaining group of Visegrád. It was, it should be remembered, a real betrayal of the European tradition, of which our Republic is faithful bulwark, betrayal to which we have reacted. It is precisely this, if we wish, that marks a deep gap between the present and the previous Commission. On the one hand, in fact, we find those who - fortunately no longer in the government of the country today - are rooting for democracy and, on the other hand, those who defend democracy and the rule of law. On the one hand, there are those who cheered for Brexit and, on the other hand, those who work to strengthen the Union. On the one hand, there were those who supported Trump and, on the other hand, those who were for the return of a US commitment to multilateralism. We certainly cannot hide how heated and critical the debate in recent years has been on the European issue, the relationship to be maintained with the Union, the identity of the institution and its relations with the Member States (a rather conflicted relationship, especially because of some economic policies in the euro area). We have also raised some issues as a country in Italy: we have done so forcefully, freeing the debate from the question whether it is necessary to stay inside or outside Europe, but wondering how to change it and improve it. We are all aware that the construction of Europe needs general modernisation, but also that the greatest progress has always been made during times of crisis. We also had further evidence of this tormented 2020, in which the pandemic from Covid put us in serious difficulties. Allow me, however, for a moment to return to the policies of Europe and to the developments that have taken place. It has long argued that the budgetary rules were too strict and the Stability and Growth Pact has been suspended. It was considered that the State aid rules were too strict and were suspended. He complained that the ECB was too careful about inflation and today we have the Pandemic emergency purchase programme (PEPP). Finally, the need to equip the European Union with common emissions has been ventilated and we have achieved the Sure mechanism and the recovery fund. I come to mind these four aspects to affirm the progress made along the path of a new European construction; these are points and aspects that certainly cannot remain temporary and that will have to be consolidated even after the end of the pandemic, but that would be a mistake not to recognize. I say more: if we wanted intellectually to recall the enormous extent of the European response to the pandemic crisis, which is also a political manifesto, we would simply recall the Next Generation EU. We have called for Eurobonds for a long time and now we have European bonds to achieve finally expansive policies, a politically robust response, which we must not waste and which obliges the main democratic institutions to make a direct commitment. That is why here in the Senate we immediately assumed the responsibility to emphasize the central role of Parliament, forcefully asking to remove the guidelines of the plan from the idea of compressing them simply attached to NADEF, giving rise to a drumming work conducted by the parliamentary bodies that returned to the Government a qualified document, then delivered and appreciated in Europe. In the same way, today we are again calling for the debate on the investment and reform facility and governance to remain of absolute centrality, because it is not conceivable to proceed without a real involvement of the body that is the expression par excellence of democratic representation. It is not only logical, but it is right that elected Members should be fully recognised as an active part of the choices we must make for the future. The reason for this request is therefore not a habit or a whim, nor can it be pointed out as an initiative that wants to question the need to continue on the path outlined with this Government and with this majority. It means, if anything, to strengthen the action of a government, ours, born on a parliamentary initiative and that it needs to continue to share with Parliament objectives and working methods, but also tools to be able to overcome the challenge before us and that Parliament will never be able to agree to delegate to the task alone... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I say this also on the basis of what is read in the draft National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR): Parliament's desired involvement cannot be the reception of a report every three months. That's not the way. Today we are spending the money of our children and grandchildren, just to leave them a greener, more resilient, more inclusive and more just public space organization. We cannot deliver selective and decision-making processes to exquisitely technocratic visions, but we must free them to a real political discussion of the idea of a country that we want to rebuild. Doing so here, in Parliament, means doing it better, ensuring the contribution of those who stubbornly continue to work on horizons of inclusion and development, where sovereignism, on the other hand, continues to want to see boundaries useful to raise barriers. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] It is an unbreakable commitment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u49	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u50	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on 10 and 11 December, the European Council will deal with many important issues and issues for the future of Europe: the European Stability Mechanism, with the amendment of the Treaty, the major issues of foreign policy, the Covid-19, health and vaccines, the climate. The national debate had no particular emphasis on foreign, climate or pandemic issues. The foreign front is very important: I would like to remind you that it concerns relations with China and the United States, the expansionism of Turkey, the issue of the Mediterranean linked to immigration, terrorism and also energy supply for our country. Then there is the climate, with the 2030 targets, vaccines and restrictions, which create a bit of confusion in our country. Only ESM and not even the Treaty were discussed; more than ESM was discussed in relation to health, which is a derogation from the old Treaty. We are in favour of it, on the contrary, we should have activated it six months ago; your Government, Mr President, is guilty of not using the opportunity for our health care. Perhaps, in this case, the justification of some colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars, who, as I read in some media, said: We vote yes to the ESM in order not to ask for it, in order to keep still this Government that does not ask for it. We, on the other hand, intervene in the debate to discuss the substance, which is the Treaty. After 2012 it was clear to everyone, with the Greek question, that the model of intervention did not work: instead of a cure, it risked being a lethal injection. In 2017, in fact, a process of change began, with the debate on the intergovernmental or Community model; the first prevailed. In 2019, the pre-agreement was not satisfactory. Our President Silvio Berlusconi, in December 2019, denounced our dissent and called for an overall reform that would bring transparency and democracy in decision-making processes. Why are we criticizing? Let's start with the two lines of loan. The first, the conditional precautionary credit - the so-called Annex 3, Mr President - is for those who have less than 3% deficit and who have less than 60% debt-to-GDP ratio. We should recover, ladies and gentlemen, on average 5% each year for the next 20 years: is that possible? It is EUR 75 billion per year to be recovered either on debt or on gross domestic product. [[Applause]] If anyone seems possible, tell them. For the other loan line, enhanced conditionality, linked to a reform programme that includes debt restructuring, with the forced remodulation of its maturity or the decrease in nominal value, what would the savings of Italian households do? At the time of giving the refund or procrastinating for ten years (and perhaps the taxpayer has to buy the house) or half is proposed to him. Is that the answer? The MES system as a loan, therefore, does not work. Let's talk about the collective action clauses, by single votes, by number or by quotas: can Italy go to the minority with the vote of States that individually value its twentieth? We, one of the four great founders! Can you go into the minority, take off the emergency case, because it has 17.70 and so it doesn't exceed 20 percent? This is the other question I am asking about governance: total exclusion of the political sphere from the decision-making process (I appreciated the intervention of my colleague Stefano, who is of the majority) with the power of immunity for the Director-General; this, added to the voting system, leads Italy not to be decisive and neither are the European Parliament and the Commission. As far as banks are concerned, a positive agreement has been reached for the Single Resolution Fund. However, it is necessary to review the rule of last resort that causes the aid to intervene only after the bail in. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe in the European Union, which is basically the fruit of that Economic Community for Coal and Steel, then the EEC, born in Rome in 1958, which gave unity to Europe and the common good. We want the ESM, we want the reformed ESM. However, it does not escape anyone who, like Greece, has suspended the ESM mechanism with the Covid-19, as well as the mechanism that is now being proposed, because it does not work technically, because it is anchored to the Fiscal Compact, which is not feasible for the whole of Europe. We believe in the European Union that it has had the capacity, with the pandemic, to make a qualitative leap, a common debt, the so-called Eurobonds, which recall Giulio Tremonti, Minister of the Berlusconi government ten years ago. This is the furrow, the true federal passage against the selfishness of governments and bureaucracy. What is the point of signing a treaty knowing that it cannot be respected? It's like getting married to prove if the divorce works, that's about it. [[Applause]] We, the founding country, must go further. The recovery fund shows that you can and also the ESM for health shows that you can, because it was by way of derogation from the first ESM. Some say that the political issue prevails. In this case, we make the question of substance prevail over that policy: we are against your Government, we must not repeat it. [[Applause]] Let's say, however, that the government has not dealt with and, taken from the internal quarrels of the commissioners, does not make anything concrete on the recovery fund, floats and does not travel, you can say, because actually this is the state. In conclusion, Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we realize that in a complex negotiation not everything is possible, but we must not give up national interests. To agree with the saying "rather than nothing, better rather" is not good, absolutely not good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u52	Mr President, short summary of previous episodes: 19 July 2012: Chamber sitting No 669 - ratification and execution of the fiscal compact - Mr Giorgetti in final explanation of vote: The political part that speaks to you at the moment is in favour of Europe (...) but will vote against the fiscal compact. (...) Without economic growth, a public debt such as the Italian debt is not sustainable. This is not just about international speculation, but simply about the natural observation that, not growing and not producing wealth, no debt can be repaid. 2.889 days later, on 16 June 2020, Professor Romano Prodi heard at the 14th Chamber Commission: "Finally the tragic error is corrected, which has made much more serious than the previous crisis, which has severely damaged Italy and has even devastated the Greek economy. I'm talking about austerity. Just listen to Giorgetti. [[Applause]] Countertest: 3.028 days before, on March 2, 2012, Professor Romano Prodi at the round table at the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Piacenza declared: The fiscal compact goes in the right direction, but they have approved it only today; then there will be the postponement and you risk having a pact that will have less impact than the one envisaged. Understood? In 2012 at the PD austerity was fine, indeed it would have wanted it before; only the League was against it. Today they are all against it. [[Applause]] Unlike Europe, which has many fathers, austerity now has none. Second chapter. On 19 December 2013, the Prime Minister, Mr Enrico Letta, wrote on Twitter: "Finita ora sessione Consiglio europeo" (European Council) Point. "Approved banking union " Point. "To protect savers and avoid new crises" Point. "Good step towards more united EU" Point. A man as bright as his punctuation. [[Applause.]] A few seconds later, Mr Borghi: "This is the saving to be given to the savers of the first bank that will jump. I'll cheer for the pursuers. It's still on Twitter. Go check it out. 685 days later, on November 4, 2015, in the 6th Senate Commission, when expressing its opinion on the legislative decree transposing the bail in, the summary report reports that Senator Tosato points out the risks to which savers and, in particular, accountants may be exposed, without such intervention being, moreover, decisive of banking crises. Eighteen days later the decree-law saves banks was published in the Official Journal (I don't have to tell you what it is). Six days later, on 28 November 2015, in Civitavecchia, Luigino D'Angelo, a bondmaker of Banca Etruria, a former employee of Enel, took his life for years in writing to the CGIL. His wife remembered that he had always been a left-wing man. 914 days later, on 30 May 2018, in the European Banking Authority's statement on the treatment of bail-in-sale financial instruments sold to small savers (i.e. poor Luigino D'Angelo's case), point 46 states that even in the absence of miss-selling, the consequences of applying the bail in to subordinated bonds, in the case of significant exposures, could present specific challenges from the point of view of the contagion effects and financial stability. In other words, the European bank authority (EBA) in May 2018 said that the destabilizing bail had been a mistake. Of course, with Europe's green light, the PD arrives, as usual after that. On April 9, 2019, Vincenzo Visco, in an interview with "The Truth" stated that it had been a serious mistake of Letta to accept the bail in retroactive of the banks. I understand that there was pressure, there was even talk of blackmail, but it was necessary to say no to Wolfgang Schäuble. So, recapitulating, for PD and Bankitalia the banking union was a good thing. To change its mind, the PD waited for the European Banking Authority to say that Italian savers had been used as guinea pigs. Third chapter, the ESM. On 19 July 2012, when the Treaty establishing the ESM was ratified and implemented, Mr Bitonci said in his explanation of vote: Today you are making a serious mistake by underestimating the scope of this measure. These are decisions that will forever condition our lives and that of our children; decisions that will change our autonomy in economic, budgetary and fiscal terms. We keep these words as they are: they apply perfectly today, even more so for the reasons detailed by Mr Borghi in the House. I'm gonna finish. I give up addressing the relative majority party for the simple reason that today it has lost political agility. Traitors are useful to someone, but everyone is wary of them, and therefore de hoc satis. [[Applause.]] Instead, we talk to the PD, the only piece of the current majority that a political future will have and with which we need to dialogue. After austerity, after the bail in, even with the reform of the ESM (which is austerity), it will end as we say. And again this time you go straight on your way. Maybe they're blackmailing you or, more simply, think it's up to us to slaughter savers. But you also thought so at the time of the bail in, and instead the blood of the Italian savers is on your hands and you have also lost us the election. So, we don't expect to convince you, we don't care. But there is one thing that should interest you: what do the fiscal compact and the bail in have in common, the two mistakes that you have already admitted? It is very simple: these are two words in English that public opinion was not interested in, and even I, who have been of the trade and who since June 2013 warned against the dangers of bail in, I ignored the debate that was taking place in Parliament and the far-sighted words of my fellow Members Giorgetti, Bitonci and Tosato, but I could add Garavaglia and many others. Since then something has changed, and I conclude: since then, unfortunately for you, dear friends of the PD, there has been a debate in the country. The level of awareness of the electorate is no longer that of 2012, so today thousands of anxious eyes look at this debate carefully and wait for the outcome of the vote to divide this Parliament into two categories: patriots and traitors [[Applause]] Despite all the efforts of anti-politics to confuse the waters and cloud the responsibilities, today it will be clear who is on the side of freedom and the country and who is on the other side. I wish you every success. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u53	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u54	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you listen to us from outside. You see, President Alberti Casellati, I also appeal to the citizens because in this period of Covid - I am sincere - the presence in the House of guests, who took their seats in the forums, is something that I miss very much in our debates. [[Applause.]] I hope that we will soon be allowed to reopen these doors outwards. It was a very long discussion and also participated (usually the general discussion is not too much a time). I have listened to all the speeches of my fellow Members, including those of opposition. Of course, the opposition does its job, so it is clear that I could not expect content that I would have shared in full, and instead it happened that in some interventions - starting from the last, that of Senator Bagnai, of which I often appreciated some passages, certainly not the final part - there were aspects that could be shared. Then there was Senator Candiani, who personally gives me a lot of sympathy, but he does not sleep there at night, Mr President, because he is angry with President Conte and the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] Live peacefully, Senator! Among the other interventions, that of Senator Pinotti, who many times saw me in contrast, contained some passages that could be shared and - why not? - Senator Steger's was beautiful and I feel like I'm sharing it in full. Then there is a note of color. I am referring to the intervention of Senator Monti, who - reading the Report - referred to the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars. Senator Monti is sitting in a scranno next to the five-star MPs. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u55	Put those signs away, please. Don't make me suspend the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u56	SANTANGELO (M5S). We stop because there is the usual picture with the signs! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's get the signs out! Invitation to Senators Quaestors to have them removed. [[Comments]] Please, Senator Santangelo, continue. SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, just kindly ask you to recover these two minutes of interruption. I was saying, about Senator Monti, that, during his speech, he referred to the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars and said that, sitting among the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, the impression was made that the ESM is not an impossible subject, but that there was a need for a commitment to teaching pedagogy. [[Applause]] You see, President Monti, it may be as you say - or perhaps not - but probably this course of didactic pedagogy repetitions is what the Movimento 5 Stars is doing with you: the next step will be to vote with us a good no to the ESM, and its repetitions path will be concluded. [[Applause]] We talked about the MES: we start to disassemble certain fake news, because many have told people, especially outside, that today we voted the MES. No: today we do not vote on the ESM. This is the first thing to put aside. We believe, like Movimento 5 Stars, that this is a truly old-fashioned instrument, an anachronistic instrument. It's a tool you don't need. Unfortunately, today with the vote we cannot cancel it. I wish I did. Unfortunately, even colleagues of the opposition today, legitimately, are opposed to the ESM, but in their party there are the fathers and mothers of the ESM, because in 2011 they went to Europe to vote for it and not the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause]] We agree with that, ladies and gentlemen, even with the opposition. Then there is also part of the majority who legitimately believe that this instrument can be useful, as we have all said several times. At the appropriate time, the sovereign Parliament will express itself and decide whether or not to enter the ESM and the one in democracy will be the decision that Italy will take. So all we need is a little patience and we have to wait. We believe that even the word that is assigned to this instrument, MES, from the communicative point of view sounds as impregnable, hard and strong. There are other instruments that Europe is finally implementing, thanks and above all to the work of President Conte - let's face it - and of the majority: these are instruments that are more in line with the idea of Europe that has the Movimento 5 Stars. The ESM is a child of the European Union; we are more for a community that is closer to the citizens. In this difficult period of Covid we finally found the key that had been lacking in all previous years and that will allow us to have a Europe of peoples, a Europe that is really close to the citizens. [[Applause]] We believe that this path is also possible with the diversity that is currently within the majority. If I were to give a title to my speech today, I would call it the voice of the people, and not because I feel like a spokesperson for the people; in the Palaces they are called the voices of the corridor and in the newspapers they are called rumors. I must tell you, Mr Conte, a fact which concerns you and which happened to me a few days ago. A friend of mine has a small fish company: he comes out in the afternoon with the boat, drops the nets and the next morning he brings the fish to the port; he is one of those Italian citizens who knows on his own skin what the wrong choices are on fishing and what concerns her. He always tells me that he doesn't understand anything about politics, but I am convinced - his name is Salvatore - that he is much more competent than many other people who are here. But do not be offended, for in reality it is often so. [[Comments]] President Alberti Casellati, in telling this fact I will use some words in Sicilian that I will immediately translate to be understandable to the whole Assembly. My friend the other day, arriving with his catch at the port, asked me how it goes and what the situation is in Rome. I always try to explain that this is a difficult time, but we are trying to find ideal solutions for citizens. And then he said to me, "Senature, a vvoi sapiri which is true?" (Senator, do you want to know what the truth is?). Chisti vonnu would make cadiri to Count and the Movimento 5 Stars more spynniri iddi the deaf. (These want to drop Count and the Movimento 5 Stars to spend their money.) [[Applause]] . Tell us to Count of Iri ahead. Iddu a s'avi a spinri narrè, picchì u populu unné fixed. He went back to the people. (Tell Count to go forward and not turn back, because behind the people he understood the precious work that she is doing). [[Applause]] Therefore, to you, President Conte, I express my personal solidarity, but also that of the entire Group of Movimento 5 Stars, also for the unworthy attacks that these days are affecting you and the people close to you. [[Applause]] So go ahead, President, and don't turn back. Then a brief passage on the majority, because I feel obliged to thank you all. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I ask you to recover those two minutes, President. I would like to thank the majority, because our motion for a resolution is the result of a complex debate and it has gone well at the Movimento 5 Stars, it has gone well for everyone, but it is certainly a bit tight for someone. I have to thank all my colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars, really everyone, nobody excluded [[Applause]] , because it is here in Parliament, in democracy, within the political forces that are debating and finding points of fall, which are not easy. However, I cannot thank all those colleagues of majority who, with games, usual in the Palaces, are putting the majority in difficulty. Citizens certainly don't need it. [[Applause]] Senator Renzi, I'm not talking about you: stay calm and stand beside us, who is well. Mr President, I am about to complete my speech. I say this also for our detractors: it is true that on the MES the Movimento 5 Stars had a moment of extreme difficulty. We know, it's hard. Comrades of the Movimento 5 Stars, teammates of the Movimento 5 Stars, I think it's time to take our hand. In fact, let's take each other by the elbow, because by the hand we can't, and let's move on and not stop. In conclusion, Mr President, a picture echoes in my mind these days. I remember the great Dario Fo who in 2013, in Milan, in the square of the Duomo overflowing, appealed to a young political force, which was the Movimento 5 Stars, to change the country. He had to say the following words: "Do it yourselves, please. You do it! I say this at Movimento 5 Stars: it's time to continue and not split up. Good job! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u57	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 (text 2), No 3, Senators Licheri, Marcucci, De Petris, Unterberger and Pharaoh, No 2, Senator Bonino and other Senators, No 3, Senators Martelli and Ciampollo, No 4, Senators Ciriani, Romeo and Bernini, No 5, Senator Romani and other Senators, No 6, Senator Binetti and other Senators, and No 7, Senator Paragone and other Senators have been tabled. The lyrics are in distribution. I'm telling you, we're on live television with Rai. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u58	Mr President, I am in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). The opinion is also in favour of motion for a resolution No 2, with the following amendment, agreed with the proposers: in the commitments, by the word "eurozone" the last three sentences are replaced by the words "with particular reference to common backstop and to the conditions of facilitated access, already demonstrated with the pandemic credit line, initiated since June 2020." I am against all the other motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u62	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, President Conte, Italy is the main beneficiary of an extraordinary act of solidarity in Europe. Is Italy itself supposed to block the reform of an instrument, on which all the other countries and all the main European political families agree, a reform that protects the banks, requested precisely by the States of Southern Europe and often adapted to the Italian needs? All this with absurd arguments, such as that according to which, with the reform, Italian money would be taken to help the German banks. As Cottarelli remembers, in case it is the Italian State and not the German one that needs help in case of crisis of its banks. Moreover, these are the same arguments that have used so-called frugal countries against aid to Italy, from their excessive point of view. How do I explain to the hairdresser who has to pay with his taxes the debts of the Italians? This was repeated several times by Chancellor Kurz when it came to the recovery fund. Do we now want to use this harmful argument for European solidarity, which we need more than Europe at the moment? [[Applause]] Do we want to legitimise the veto of Poland and Hungary on the recovery fund, putting a veto in another field as well? I'm glad we got a mediation at least in the majority. Blocking the whole eurozone on marginal changes to a treaty would have really been incredible, not to mention the confusion of this debate where we find parties that do not want either the ESM line or the reform of the ESM; others who want both the ESM health line and the ESM reform; parties that are in favour of the ESM, but are opposed to the reform of the ESM; parties that accept the reform of the ESM, but do not want to activate the health care one. All this is already difficult to explain to the Italians: imagine how it is seen in other countries. There no one discusses the ESM and the Italian debate is told in terms such as comedy, psychodrama, Country playing with fire. Unfortunately, this damage to reputation is the consequence of the battle of anti-Europeans who dream of bringing back the hands of time, because before the Covid Europe was an easy target able to easily increase the consensus in favour of populist forces. The Covid, however, has shown that with selfishness and sovereignism no one is saved and the logic of saving others with their own money must be replaced with the logic of saving others in order to save themselves. This is the basic idea of the ESM, which with the reform is also extended to the rescue of banks in crisis. That there are conditions goes without saying, because it is legitimate for people who use their own money to save others to put conditions in place. Every debt creates conditions, as John Toti rightly says. If we fight for a so-called new ESM, perhaps the most important thing would be to change its name, because I have the feeling that some no longer manage to free themselves from the ghosts they created with this propaganda monster. In fact, we are saved only by solidarity and increasing integration between the Member States, because only a continent of nearly 500 million people has the economic and moral strength to face a pandemic like the one we are experiencing. Italy has risked settling a bad blow to the new process of integration and putting water in the mill of those who have always spoken of its lack of reliability; a great damage to the perception of Italy both from the point of view of reliability and institutional and its public accounts. There could be no worse spot; there could be no better gift to those hoping to return to the constraints of stability and to the season of financial rigour. It would have been a very serious mistake which, fortunately, has been avoided. That is why the Autonomous Group will vote with conviction on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u65	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 18 Senators of the Italian Group wish you well and invite you to take Italy on the side of Europeanism, not sovereignism, in the important debate on Thursday and Friday in Brussels. In the face of the pandemic crisis Europe has responded this time beating a positive sign and our country is the protagonist of this turning point. The reform of the ESM is a small step forward, and it goes in the right direction. However, we want to take the opportunity of this debate, to which you have referred several times to us, in order to use words of truth and transparency - the same as we say in private and majority meetings - also here in Parliament, using the style of what the New Testament would call parresia: to say things in the face because they are needed, now or never. As the President-in-Office of the Council said, this is a political moment when Italy has opportunities that it has never had in the past. Of course, the problems are enormous (the distribution of vaccines, the State-Regions relationship, the delays in so many important moments of the country's life), but we are for the first time presiding over the G20. As the name says, it'll happen again in 20 years. And we preside over the G20 at the moment when Italy can dictate the line on the economic future post-pandemic. We preside over the G20 at the time when the United States returns to multilateralism; "America is back" is the title of Joe Biden's foreign policy, the elected President. As the President-in-Office of the Council recalled, we also have the opportunity to co-chair COP26, the extraordinary Conference on Energy Transition, Sustainability and Climate Change. How can we not think that we can finally transform the environment from a very important and ideal question to the occasion of creating jobs, thinking that we have with ENI, Enel, Snam, Saipem, the excellences of the energy transition at a not national, but global level. So many important topics for discussion. And you, President, touched them. In this the 200 billion of the Next generation EU is a great achievement, but they are a gigantic responsibility. It is good then to be clear on the point, and we say it through the President of the Senate to the President of the Council and to those who continue to argue that the position of Italia Viva is linked to some interest of participation in the direction booth. We will not exchange our yes to the proposal for governance in exchange for a little bit or a "add a seat to the table." In another way, and not already to the President-in-Office of the Council who is aware of it, but to those who follow us, we are not in the least asking that there should also be a minister with a political color closer to ours and we show it in a very simple way. Let us remind the unsuspecting passers-by of this House that on 22 July we asked for one and only one thing, which lies in the proceedings of the Senate and on YouTube for those who do not read the shorthand report. We said that, in the face of the 200 billion to be spent - a figure that will not come back for years, I would say for decades, unfortunately - either Parliament is having a real debate, challenging oppositions, or we are losing the dignity of the institutions. Some say: But how do you want to talk about politics during the pandemic? If we do not talk about politics during the pandemic, what are we doing in Parliament? [[Applause.]] If we do not have a parliamentary debate before the main opportunity for the future of our children, what are we going to do to challenge opposition? On this point, Mr President, it is good to be clear. On 22 July we asked her to come to the House in August, perhaps it was a bit demagogic, but it was also good in September, October or November. What is not right, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - and we tell you when we look it in the eye and in the face - is that it arrives at two o'clock at night on the certified mail of the Ministers, a draft of 128 pages, which must become an amendment to the budget law, with a proposal that provides managers with powers to replace the Government and without a parliamentary debate, because this year too the budget law will not be discussed by at least one branch of Parliament. Colleagues of the Democratic Party, we were together, in the same party, when two years ago President Conte and Vice President Salvini, one of you, one of us, current pro-tempore President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, even signed an appeal to the Constitutional Court against the government's decision not to let us discuss the budget law. Now, in 15 days, the same thing happens. If one thing Salvini does is wrong - not always, often, but this is another speech - but, if we do it, and it is the same, it is equally wrong. [[Applause]] We cannot imagine that, in the face of an undisputed budget law, we are entering, jumping and bypassing Parliament, the whole major debate on the next use of EUR 200 billion. Do you understand that this is a fundamental discussion for the institutions? You can give us one, two, three or ten Undersecretaries, but we'll give them back to you. The credibility of the country and the seriousness of the institutions are at stake! [[Applause]] Do you realize it has to happen now or never? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 300 consultants, when you cut 300 Members, are proof that you have an idea of the policy that I do not agree with. And if I am a minority and, in the eyes of citizenship, it will be said that consent is found not so, but with Facebook directs, I am not interested in changing position. I believe that a government cannot be replaced by a task force. I believe that a Parliament cannot be replaced by a direct Facebook. I believe that this is the battle of dignity that Parliament must wage. [[Applause]] If this is the Marshall Plan of the future, where are the mayors? If this is the Marshall Plan of the future, where are the representatives of the third sector? If this is the Marshall Plan of the future - I never imagined to say so - where are the categories and unions? It is not imaginable that, in the face of EUR 200 billion, which means public debt, we are giving up being parliamentarians. Is that clear? [[Applause]] Then, Mr President, let us be clear. Is it just a problem of method? I wish. There is someone who, probably, imagines that one can "dipicimize" politics. But there is also a merit problem. I read the charts of the Next Generation EU. But who decided that we put EUR 9 billion on health? This is an important step. We play transparently between us. When my government, for three years, put seven billion more on health care, everyone said, in the last ten months of talk shows, that we had cut on health care. In two and a half years we have put more than seven billion and it has been said that it was little. Can I say that? History says it was little compared to what happened. What about us for the next five years? We're gonna put in $9 billion? In my opinion, we need double (18), triple (27), quadruple (36, which is not a random number, since it is the equivalent of the ESM). I want a place where we can say that health care must not be put in the background. Do you think it is normal for the next generation EU to have EUR 3 billion in favour of tourism? Tourism is the main voice for restarting, especially in the South, and not only. But do you think it is normal for Parliament to keep quiet while Merkel's Germany - which spends its holidays in Italy, South Tyrol or Ischia - puts in EUR 35 billion and we put in EUR 3 billion? But who decided that? But who decided that on the school - it has been closed for a year, unlike the French and German ones - we put a shiny page, while Macron puts 54 projects in favour of young people? Mr President, I tell you very clearly that we are ready to discuss everything in an open and frank parliamentary debate. We are not prepared to use the budget law as the vehicle in which we introduce what we have read in the newspapers. In this I insert an equally important story, relating to the foundation of the secret services. If that is true, we cannot imagine having a foundation to which, at the Copasir, the political forces, almost unanimously, say no, while in the newspapers we read that it will still be included in the budget law. So to play in a clean and transparent way, if there is a measure that keeps the governance of the Next Generation EU and a measure that keeps the foundation of the secret services, we vote against it. [[Applause]] And we say it with much loyalty; we say it first and invite everyone to stop while there is time. When, in fact, we think of the secret services, let me say that on April 17, 2015, an Italian fishing vessel was blocked by Libyans and taken away, but within six hours, the then President of the Council called the then delegated authority and sent the Navy to resume those four fishermen. Tomorrow it will be one hundred and one days that 18 fishermen are in the hands of Libyans without anyone moving a finger for this. [[Applause]] Mr President, to those of your collaborators who continue to call the newspaper editors to say that we are looking for some comms that, if you need some chairs, there are three - two as Minister and one as Undersecretary - at your disposal. If you, on the other hand, have a desire to think seriously and concretely for the good of the country, explain to your collaborators who call the editorials that this is not a talk show or the "Big Brother" because this is Parliament, this is the politics and this is the courage that Italy Viva has and that I hope have others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u68	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I should like to say a word of greeting to Mr Renzi, who uses the words of the opposition. He also ripped applause from this side. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened carefully to your speech: you have carefully avoided deepening the central issue, the underlying issue, namely the reform of the ESM. Today we are called to an important act and susceptible of gravity for the nation. We are called, at least formally, to give a mandate to the Government on the modification of the fund saves States: a matter which had been set aside, after having been dealt with with with the friction notes within your majority, and also discussed in Parliament, the place of parliament to do so and where opposition has been expressed. When the matter came out the door, she came back from the window. On 30 November, Mr Gualtieri, at the meeting of the Eurogroup, in the absence of a mandate, gave the Italian consensus to the reform and the ESM, unfortunately, became the focal point in the management of the crisis of the eurozone nations and this is - in our opinion - the shameful ambition of the reform. The reform of the European Mechanism is being discussed - we have said it in many - since 2017, but only now hic et nunc - happens to be necessary. Why does it become an obligation? And why do you want so much reform that lowers the threshold of qualified majority, which in fact excludes - a little stressed aspect - Italy from the right of veto, preserved - by chance - from France and Germany, which hold the largest shares within the ESM? Why do you want a reform that transfers economic decision-making power within the body? And, most importantly, why do you legitimize the worst blackmail? They have openly admitted this to the majority by saying that the reform is bad, but it serves. In short, we recover that insufferable and sick refrain: "Europe asks for it." In fact, you should say: "Europe imposes it on us!". This is, in fact, European blackmail on the resources to be used against the effects of the Covid pandemic. The truth is that you have already decided everything not now and not here. You have already decided - as my colleague Mr Urso recalled - that you will resort to the Health MES and, in fact, in the recovery plan you have foreseen only nine billion for health, of which - I add - 4.2 for research and 4.8 for territorial assistance and telemedicine. They are quite a bit of a pandemic country, to which you have promised home care protocols that have never been seen, but we will talk about it. By voting for the reform of the ESM, you finally take the path that France and Germany have indicated to you and also this not from now, but from the beginning of this Executive: a road and a mortal embrace that foresee, precisely, the modification of the ESM and - Brothers of Italy emphasizes - the restructuring of the debt. As Giorgia Meloni said this morning by intervening in the Chamber, access to the Health MES, with its conditionality - an aspect that has not been changed curiously - is one of the steps that will lead us to a substantial commissioning of Italy, with the restructuring of the debt, with the forceful withdrawals from the current accounts, with our risky government bonds, on which we can trigger a speculative spiral and, again, with the pulverization of our savings and maybe even with the patrimony. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, we realize the German design of the high Italian public debt repaid with the savings of the Italians and, in the face of this evidence, you have the courage to tell us that we use a slogan when we shout that the ESM does not serve Italy, but that it is the Italian money that serves to guarantee the French and German banks full of derivatives. [[Applause]] It is not a slogan, let's say it: it scares you because it is the truth. I see that you have reached an agreement within your majority, after the fake threats and muscle tests made in favour of the camera; after the pirouettes that saw the Movimento 5 Stars pass from the dogma of the No MES to the mantra...We are responsible, so yes to the reform, even if worsening, so MES ni, indeed yes, to stay where you are, in a position for which no one elected you, very far from your electoral program that spoke openly about the dismantling of the MES, as well as from that electoral program, to which you have derogated, which went from the No TAV to the No Vax double mandate to the Mai with the PD: in short, a roundup of derogations that you must justify to your electorate. They leave us stunned by your excuses at the roll of the yes to the reform of the ESM. In addition to the failure, which does not honour you, and the legitimacy to that blackmail I was talking about, I would also like to refer to the statements made by Minister Di Maio who candidly says that the no of the 5 Stars remains at the MES - we do not know where it remains - but we must vote on the reform because the question at stake is the survival of the government. Finally, there is another motivation - it would almost be laughable in another context - a little childish, for which you are asking to vote on the reform, but reaffirming that so much at the ESM we will never enter: another great lie. Your contradictions are obvious. We have all heard what Mr Renzi thinks of the task force, of the steering booth in which technicians replace politicians and ministers: in short, another majority force, which one day ago the struggle party and another government party, and which then - I don't know - will have to decide whether to reverse or take up the final and crucial challenge. On the other hand, the centre-right remains compact even today, even on this vote, as our own motion for a resolution shows, with which we ask not to sign the Agreement on the ratification of the reform of the ESM; we call for support measures for the economic sectors most affected by the crisis and also to remove - attention - that immunity granted to the ESM and its leaders - immunity which you never speak of - as well as the procedures for debt restructuring. Brothers of Italy will vote against this reform, which strengthens the ESM as a super creditor and allows it to trade out what debts are or are not sustainable by the countries. It is a mechanism that favours European consorteries, the Franco-German axis and the credit line for the so-called virtuous countries, those that have rigour in the public accounts, to understand us. I am thinking of Holland, which is not only tulips, but is also a tax paradise that every year takes away resources from other European countries in terms of taxes and sucks their resources. [[Applause]] You like the storytelling between the good and the bad, between the frugal countries - they would be the good, of course - and the bad countries that would want the veto. The matter is recomposing in these minutes, but it is not just the node of the rule of law, on which you have flown, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and which can become a weapon towards those countries which disagree with the single European thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, when you vote, you think that today each of us makes a choice. Today, this majority chooses the path of enslavement to European bureaucracies, gives in to blackmail and sacrifices the interests of the sovereign state. Our no to this reform is ontological, it is patriotic, it is the defense of Italy from the economic dictatorship of the ESM, it is the defense of national sovereignty from the European Diktats. If anyone has taught me that it is darker than it is at midnight, you are the midnight of politics and you are leaving the Italian people - whom you have never mentioned in your speech, Mr President, not once - in the loan shark jerseys of Europe, without whether or not. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u71	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today the UN has once again called all of us and this House, including the parliaments, even responsibly all the governments of the world, to what is happening and continues to happen: global warming is still above three degrees. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw attention to this further alarm, launched by all the scientific bodies, because this is one of the key points of the next European Council. [[Applause]] I'm telling all my fellow senators. This is the debate and I hope one day - I do not know if anyone will be able to give me this grace, which would testify to the centrality of Parliament - to finally hear a real debate on the assumption of responsibility on the part of all of us who are elected by the citizens. There is no point in all of us continuing to fail to understand. The pandemic, what has happened to us, what has happened to this planet and to the world, and the many sufferings we are experiencing are closely linked to the environmental crises; we must always join them and we must build the interrelations with the choices. I know that everyone was only focused on four or five lines, but the motion for a resolution we are about to adopt is very important. It commits the President of the Council and Europe to force the achievement of climate neutrality; to reduce emissions by at least 55%; to facilitate a further objective that perhaps Europe is finally able to give us. This is the new Europe, Mr President, which we strongly wanted, even when it was another Europe; we fought for it. We should be proud that a new season has opened in Europe: from the environmental point of view and the objectives that we are all setting ourselves together and that - I would like to remind you - the European Parliament has indicated 60%. Having launched the Next generation EU clearly shows that most of the resources, more than 37%, must be devoted to green, green transition, innovation. This will be the only way to ensure that progress can be made in our country, in Europe and on a global level. That's the point. Employment and social equity can only be achieved if we take this path decisively. This is the most urgent issue for the European Council. Then there's the MES. Well, we have come to an agreement, but why, President and colleagues? Because I believe that we are all aware of the fact that it is an old instrument (she called it an outdated and obsolete instrument) which will have to be inserted - and it is no coincidence that we also mention the Conference on the future of Europe - into the new institutional architecture of Europe. But there is another point. In our country there is a unique debate: we are the only European country in which we discuss and get caught up in the ESM; We are the only European country in which there is the ESM fundamentalist party and the ESM party. Instead, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, know that our battle in Europe must continue for the new Europe and it is a problem that concerns our country. In 2021, the Stability Pact will be able to come into force, which is an old legacy, of the old Europe, which has met the hostility of European citizens. [[Applause]] That Stability Pact, President, must be overcome and profoundly changed; that is the problem of our country and we should be patriots on this, since I have heard that word used. In fact, if we want to do the interests of Italy and our citizens to the full, we must want to change those rules and believe in them, because the architecture of the fiscal compact belongs to the old Europe and today it would be just a string around the neck with respect to the need to resume the path of European ideals and ideals of European integration. That means being European today. Let's get to us. We have made difficult and complicated choices several times; and I come to the theme that is now so passionate about the comments: the recovery fund. President, a little attention because I think it's important. On the role of Parliament, I demand our position: who cares more about the centrality of Parliament than we do about it? In this House we have fought to enforce Parliament, even against the constitutional choices that went on the other side. On the recovery fund we wanted there to be a great job and commitment of the Commissions. The resolutions of the Parliamentary Commissions, the House and the Senate are the guide for the recovery fund plan. We discuss so much about governance; I believe that we will find a solution and we must do it because we have to make a synthesis, otherwise it would be incredible that a great success of Italy, which has achieved about 200 billion euros, should be wasted on internal polemics, which distract from the main objective: to make synthesis. [[Applause]] You are the President of the Council and you will be able to sum up. We are very pleased that today, at last, someone is rediscovering the consultation. I had to deal with the idea that the consultation and the union were old tools, like the token to put on the iPhone, so we are very happy if we all agree now. We all agree that it is necessary to involve the social partners, to involve environmental associations (you know how much you care) and civil society because this contribution of 200 billion is the future of our country and concerns the whole of Italy. Then, of course, there will be a directing booth because, President, it is also necessary from a technical point of view to carry out monitoring. You know better than I do what this means. How many times, obsessively, have we asked for a great recruitment plan in the public administration that today does not make it. None more than us - and I say this to someone else - is far from the culture of the commissioners who have been constantly resorted to and from the culture of the derogation. We think that, outside the derogations and outside the police stations, we will be able to sum up, because you will be able to do so, as you have shown so far, going forward and finally giving to this country, with the contribution of 200 billion and with a new path to be taken, the possibility to get out of the crisis and, above all, to face up to a fundamental junction for our future.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u74	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, authoritative colleagues, these are difficult, complex days that pass between ups and downs. I listened to much of the debate in the Senate and also a large part of the debate in the House. I was embarrassed to listen, in particular by members of a part of the opposition, very heavy terms, very complicated to accept when we are going through, even considering what we had said to ourselves in the recent past, talking about institutional collaboration, unity of intent, a call to the collective sense of the national community. Apparently that's not the case, so many lies have been told. We take note of that. It's not a good time, it's a nice ride, but let's keep working for our country. Mr President, I would like to say thank you because you, Minister Di Maio, Minister Gualtieri and Minister Amendola have rebuilt the credibility of our country in Europe and we must all thank you for that. [[Applause]] You have done so with a sense of state and national interest. You have done so by keeping the commitments we have made, making sensible proposals and looking at a different Europe, with the ambition of a future that can see in Europe the context in which to grow back and start again after such a difficult crisis. The reform of the ESM is within this path of seriousness on our part and concrete acts towards our country by Europe. Within the reform measure that you will support - and we are very happy with this - in the coming hours, environmental policy choices are understood as a real priority for the future of our country, our continent, our planet. A mass of investments never seen before will transform Italy and our economy and allow us to restart. Digital development is also included, to fill too many delays in past years, when digital infrastructure was lacking in many parts of the country. You know this now: it is at my heart to eliminate all the cultural, technological and industrial differences between Italy of the big capitals and Italy of the small centers. Everyone, thanks to digital, must be put in a position to work, to dialogue, to confront, to interact. Therefore, digital development, training and education at all levels, as a great moment in which the country should be rediscovered by investing in future generations. Then there are the themes of foreign policy: the Mediterranean, the centrality of Italy, relations with important countries such as Turkey, with North Africa. Of course, I agree with the appeal on government activism, so that our compatriots will soon be released and have the opportunity to spend Christmas in their families. [[Applause]] , because the situation they are going through is unacceptable. Last but not least, I mention the Brexit affair. I live as uncomfortable as these moments, but I know that you will represent us adequately in that context. Moreover, we have said this from the beginning, since this Government was born under the emblem of Europe: we have found ourselves, together with the Movimento 5 Stars and other political forces, in Europe having a vision of Europe's rights and opportunities for future generations; the Europe of returning to politics, to the high sense of politics; the Europe of development, labour, the distribution of wealth created through a growing economy. This is why the funds of Next Generation EU are the great challenge of the future; a challenge that we cannot miss, in which the governance we are asked for is one of the central and essential steps. I'm pragmatic, I read the papers, and then I try to find out. In fact, I am waiting, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the Government to send us a proposal soon. I believe, like many of us, in Parliament and in its specific functions, that the Government will send us a proposal which we will have the opportunity to examine, analyse and possibly even amend. [[Applause),]] with the indications that the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to give. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must put it all on this: constancy, dialogue, confrontation, involvement on governance as well as on the plan. So let me remind you: the Italian Parliament, looking around Europe, is one of the most involved, and I boast of our action towards the Government. In particular, I note Mr Amendola that he has always made a comparison with Parliament on this level; and so he must move on. I would remind those who forgot: on 12 and 13 October we had a parliamentary debate, we voted on precise guidelines. And we demand from the government - but I think the government will certainly do so - an interim verification step to approve the final plan, because this is the function of Parliament. The government does the government and we do the parliament, without giving discounts to anyone, simply in the interests of our country. Parliamentaryizing the debate was an appropriate and necessary act of involvement, and this involvement, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must broaden it. As a Democratic Party, we call for it to be as broad as possible vis-à-vis civil society, businesses, trade unions, regions and local authorities. It is obvious that this must be the case, because the Italy of the future depends on it and we cannot take any steps back. But it doesn't seem to me that the government has that desire. I said that earlier, perhaps anticipating - and mistakenly - in a public statement. I was expecting a Council of Ministers from you this evening. I would like a Council of Ministers from you soon that does not end until there is an agreement to be sent to Parliament. Then we will be doing our part, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You come with a proposal and we will have the strength and determination to verify it, to take it fully into account and to postpone it with any changes if necessary. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to end by saying that you have the mandate to continue to represent us, to continue that action of valorization of our country, with real contributions, directed, that allow Italy and Europe as a whole, together, to live the next ten years as years of change, growth, development and distribution of wealth. The Democratic Party will vote in favour of the resolution which yesterday, by demonstrating to the whole country - and, allow me, also a certain example - the parliamentary groups have built, making a synthesis that has great value. Our resolution is an important parliamentary document, which I defend and which I am sure you will take into account in future policy actions at European Council level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u77	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, Vice-Ministers, Undersecretaries, colleagues, I have heard many things that I share, many of them, even from parts I did not expect to hear coming from: from the putative father of this Government, who, moreover, has continued to keep voting on gusts of confidence that have stabilized it. [[Applause]] Well, today I heard a bit of repentance; we lawyers would say "working and active repentance." If this point of repentance will have a follow-up it is important that we all know it right away because I believe that Italy is really exhausted and can no longer have any of these theater. [[Applause.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we take very seriously the role you will play tomorrow in the Council of the European Union. The agenda is very important; you will have to represent Italy and the Italians and you will not have to say in Europe - you will not, I am convinced - that everything has gone well, because everything has not gone well. [[Applause]] We are faced with a wounded Italy; she certainly sees it, Italy that has been described by the last report Censis, which has a scary subtrack: black fear; Italians tight in a grip between the fear of illness and the fear of poverty [[Applause]] ; the fear of not being able to regain their normality: their normal life, their work, their families, their employees, their everything that has now become nothing. Mr President, you will certainly see those 350 000 companies at risk of closure, that million jobs lost in December; you will see it and you must bring it to Europe, and you must ensure that Europe is in a position to help us. You will certainly see 5.5 million people who have slipped into poverty such that it is difficult to put together lunch with dinner in one day; 8 million people who have denounced a drastic, dramatic worsening of their economic and social condition. 66 percent of Italians say that they expect the worst, that they are afraid of losing their jobs, of getting sick, of being sick; they ask to be protected and reassured. [[Applause.]] An Italy wounded by floods, by the mud mountains with which we have awakened portions of Italy to which we bring all our closeness, all our affection [[Applause),]] But they must be financially supported to measure how much we care about them. Speaking of which, Mr President, I have heard that your putative father reminded us: do we want to take home those 18 fishermen who have been prisoners in Libya for 100 days? [[Applause.]] Please, by taking advantage of the quarantine of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, do we want to take them home? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I take very seriously what you will do tomorrow. We're all taking this very seriously. I believe that you must go to Europe aware that in order to ask for money - I told you once - you have to have the conditions to do so. You have to have the cards in order, you have to show up with clear documents, not with a bunch of opaque arguments. I heard that from an authoritative Minister of your Government. [[Applause]] Opaque arguments, intransparent, with head-to-head numbers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do you think it is possible to talk about a green revolution and put EUR 74 billion in it while you put EUR 3 billion on culture and tourism? [[Applause]] Three billion on culture and tourism; nine billion on health; but do we want to take this health ESM? There are EUR 37 billion available since 1 June, which is more than the reform of the ESM Treaty that we do not like, because it undermines Italy. Do we want to take that credit line that we can spend on hospitals, swabs and vaccines? [[Applause]] For vaccines now, for vaccines then, for intensive therapies, for steel lungs; do we want to take them? No more ideological prejudices. If it were not called MES, but it was called Ugo or Joseph we would have already taken them and we would have avoided delays and errors of this Government. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tomorrow you will meet your counterparts. Ask them if by chance they have decided to manage the action plan of the recovery plan, which are already online in France in Germany, with lots of calls and times of implementation of the works and services for weeks. [[Applause]] Ask them if they intend to have the government or an army of new bureaucrats run at the expense of the taxpayer, commanded by you. [[Applause]] In my opinion, they will reply in chorus from the Government, because this is the right answer. The government must assume its responsibilities and since you have the best ministers in the world, why do you want to close them in the broom closet, delegitimizing them and making work a group of experts not better identified? Another authoritative Minister of your Government here has defined this task force as a mission structure.I no longer remember what it was called, but it has defined it as a smell of unconstitutionality. I agree, but I wonder (if anyone knows): where have the professionals of democratic indignation, the singers of the centrality of Parliament, the moralists in effective permanent service gone? #Cymancate [[Applause]] We miss you. I'm asleep, like the sleeping beauty, but the spell will end when the center-right returns to the government. Let's try to do this soon. In fact, if the putative father were to follow with what he said, it might be very soon. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are well aware that in Europe we must count, not please. Being in Europe does not mean being in the front row for photo opportunity or exchanging courtesies with the Heads of State and Government. It means defending the interests of our country. We ask you to do this, because Europe is like an English club: you enter if you are a partner; to get things you have to follow the customs of the house, but you have to learn how to use them well; you don't have to beat your fists on the table, but you don't have to speak too softly, otherwise they don't hear you. They are all friends, yes, but also very competitive among themselves, because they all want to get in the most beautiful chair, they all want to sit in the best place of the table and they all want to take the most coveted prize. Then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must stand up for ourselves in Europe. You have to be heard, your recovery plan must be true, shared. I have heard that we share it with Parliament. I recognise Mr Amendola's professionalism and intellectual honesty. Mr Amendola, do you really think that that rapid passage into Parliament was enough to make the parliamentary impression on what has been done so far? But there are cards, there are motivations, there are ideas, as well as numbers and vague arguments? Elsewhere there are and therefore we risk a terrible competitive disadvantage, compared to those in Europe who are already positioning themselves. We don't and we have to do it now. Mr President, you see, there is no polemical vein in this: I ask you to join the English club and not to be in the group of friends, who always say yes, but in the group of those who assert themselves. [[Applause]] and that they know how to bring Italy's interests to the extreme consequences. In conclusion, Mr President, I am convinced that, with regard to the reform of the ESM Treaty, we agree to submit to any blood tests of consistency. Since 2013, we have been saying that the reform of the ESM Treaty, so structured, does not work, because it penalises Italy, removing it from the mix of decision-makers, and removing Community democracy from the action of the ESM Treaty, forces us to give money when we do not want and, since it is subject to the conditionality of debt and deficit, we risk not having money when we need it (the money that we have given). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you enter the English club, you must promote the solidarity and federal method and not the intergovernmental, rigorist method, tears and blood that some countries like so much, that at the moment they are treating Europe like a condominium, where those who have the most thousandths decide for everyone. It can't work like that. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have understood that you are fragile and divided, you have internal problems, you cannot put down the reasons for your arguments, because you do not agree on anything, not even on how to sit at the European table. Mr. Conte, you are not just your majority at the moment, but you represent the Italians and a wounded Italy, which every day, with suffering, sacrifice, courage and responsibility faces the Covid. You have to work for them. [[Applause]] And as an orchestra conductor, he must turn his back on his audience and bow to the Italians, not Europe. [[Applause]] On this, Mr President, for the defense of all those who are facing pain and suffering - 60,000 dead, friends: it is a frightening price! - for all those who are suffering now and for all those who are no longer there, we will be there, to protect their rights, always. We in Forza Italia, we in the center-right, everywhere, in the European Parliament, in Parliament, in the squares and in the country, in every way possible and, as someone would say, whatever it takes, we will be there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u80	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will devote only two brief passages to two points of criticism on what we have heard and the rest I will devote to the idea of Italy that I think we must all have in mind, leaving proposals on which we would like to confront ourselves. It is then up to you, colleagues, to choose whether it is time for a fight, for a reshuffle, for division, for confusion, for 17-page documents or even if it is time to look into our eyes, to realize that we have 60 million people behind us and to be responsibly consequent. We could take a simpler path: I represent a movement that for two and a half years has been the first party in the country, with 25% of the consents. We are part of a coalition - I do not say'represent', because I do not want to bump anyone's susceptibility - and the center-right was, is and will remain political, economic and social majority of the country. So, with a selfish choice, I could say: we witness the fact that you continue to make mistakes, we just denounce the mistakes you are making and wait, sooner or later, to get to the vote - because sooner or later, the vote will come - saying that you have done the evil of our country and that now it is up to us. However, I would not like all Italians to pay for the mistakes that someone is making. [[Applause]] So with all our limitations, we would like to point out what is not right in our humble opinion, in order to try to remedy it together. [[Applause]] On European issues I would like to give two cues to the fly, without repeating what many have already said. We are also right in this House to talk about human rights. It is sacrosanct, but there are no serious A human rights and B human rights. During his speech, the President-in-Office of the Council also spoke briefly about Turkey. I should like to remind the House and those who have followed us from outside that since 2000 Italian and European taxpayers have given Turkey EUR 50 billion, that next year there will be another billion euros to what is an Islamic regime that incarcerates lawyers, journalists and opponents. [[Applause]] I am sick of financing an Islamic regime that does not know the meaning of the word democracy. I would therefore urge you to bring this strong voice to Brussels, but I am told that President Conte cannot raise his voice too much towards Turkey because he is blackmailing us on immigration to the East and South borders; we are done with blackmail in the name of illegal immigration; we are defending the borders of this beloved Continent. [[Applause]] We defend the Italian and European borders, instead of paying those who do the dirty work. [[Applause]] I hope you have the courage to bring this voice of freedom and human rights. The ESM, as we have already said, from our point of view is a Robin Hood on the contrary, which takes away money to those who need it to save the banks of the Germans who do not need it. If I were to summarize, this is the idea, with the final objective of saying that Italy needs that money, but before accessing it it must make other cuts, as we have done in the past, closing other hospitals and other firehouses. No. To err is human, to persevere would be diabolical. [[Applause]] We're dying of austerity, no more cuts and closures. [[Applause]] As far as the proposals are concerned, I think that the whole centre is available not from the day after tomorrow, but from tomorrow to confront you and your ministers on some very specific issues. A few hours ago the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, in a unified way, without distinctions of political color (so also the Regions governed by the center-left), approved a small document, but important from my point of view, that I invite the Government to take due account, because if all the Regions support the same thing is not a war of the sovereignists against this Government, but a proposal that probably makes sense. Italy is the world capital of volunteering; now some bureaucrats - you are certainly not aware of this - have included in the last measures a rule that obliges all Italian voluntary associations, even the smallest, to open a VAT number and issue invoices. It is madness that is neither in heaven nor on earth. [[Applause]] Let the world of volunteering occupy its time by volunteering, by not filling out forms and then requesting VAT exemption. Turning to disability, six million forgotten Italians, who are also represented by friends of the PD who are involved in other matters, called for 0.1% of European funds to be allocated to projects to reduce architectural barriers: 0.1%. I think it is right that this Parliament should unanimously give an immediate response to these six million Italian citizens, who are not B-series citizens. [[Applause]] On health I invite you to listen more carefully to the demands of the unions; for my part it is a request that may seem quite strange, but it is a moment when we do not have to close ourselves in ideological enclosures. Talking about hero nurses and then not giving a single euro of increase to nurses and health workers is a mockery that these workers and these workers do not deserve. Moving from health to work, the Italians are not worried at this moment about the reshuffle evoked by Renzi, feared by Zingaretti, deprecated by Mattarella, who I see very active with background in the newspapers and I hope that he will be as operational and attentive in defending the prerogatives of Parliament, which represents the democracy and unity of this country. [[Applause]] At the end of the year there are millions of unprotected self-employed who have zero turnover and will have to pay their minimums to the pension funds. The problem is not the contribution to the forensic cashier of the lawyer Conte, who has no problem, the problem concerns those agents of commerce, those architects, those geometries, those lawyers and those VAT consignments that have not collected a lira and cannot pay thousands of euros to their social security funds. [[Applause]] I hope that this is the subject of a united debate. There are some strategic companies for the country, I think of two in particular that deserve more attention. Ilva; it is crazy that at a time when half the world will need steel to be rebuilt, we risk selling to the first best bidder a heritage that is not only tarantino, but is an Italian heritage, that is that of Taranto's Steelworks. We defend Ilva and Italian steel production otherwise we can no longer be a manufacturing country [[Applause.]] And it certainly cannot be done by Commissioner Arcuri. As for Leonardo, another strategic structure for this country, I say as a guarantee that it is difficult to bring home orders from the other side of the world with a managing director sentenced to six years. I therefore ask the friends who rightly shout "honesty," honesty, not to put at risk a strategic company for Italian heritage and to secure a company that risks being climbed and purchased below cost by the first investor who arrives on the other side of the world. We don't give steel and defense maybe to a Chinese investor who's ready to arrive tomorrow morning with cash in the bag. [[Applause]] We are willing to work on the table of the relaunch of Ilva. If in the funds of the recovery fund there was also the bridge over the Strait of Messina, we would unite two necessities in one. We would give an infrastructure that has been waiting for decades to a part of Italy that is isolated and we would give contracts for decades to a company that otherwise risks being sold out. Then we insert this blessed bridge over the Strait of Messina into the future that unites the Country from North to South. [[Applause.]] Two final themes that are particularly close to my heart. The first is school; there was no talk of school. The school has 8 million students and a million teachers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, school is the backbone of our country. As I have said five times in this House, if you and Minister Azzolina felt, we as a center-right tomorrow would be at the table because to say that on 7 January they open schools without distinction, it means putting the health of millions of students, millions of students' family members and one million teachers at risk. [[Applause.]] If nothing has been done in the meantime on local public transport, on class ventilation, on the stabilization of precarious teachers, say today that on 7 January we will send all our children back to school, it risks being a catastrophe. Let's talk about it first so we don't notice after the damage done. One last reflection on Christmas. We talked about Europe. What do they do in all other European countries to limit the infection on Christmas day without dividing families and citizens? In Portugal there is no limitation; in France there is no limitation. The most attentive countries - Germany, France and Spain - to which many people in this House refer, rightly say that they have no more than ten people at home and no more than three different families. Right, there is no sense, no scientific justification for the fact that only in Italy people are told that on Christmas day you cannot leave the enclosure and cage of your municipality. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, put your hand on your heart and think of those millions of lonely Italians, women and men who, at least on Christmas Day, are entitled to a little affection, a smile. I think of separated parents, volunteering, Italy of small municipalities. [[Applause]] One thing is to say: stay at your home in Rome or Milan. To say that we do not leave the borders of Rome is equivalent to the possibility of turning it far and wide. In the same way, to say that you can't get out of the Milan borders means to be able to go far and wide. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us discuss this tomorrow because we can find a common sense solution that combines health protection with the right to affection; 6,000 Italian municipalities out of 8,000 have less than 5,000 inhabitants; 1,500 Italian municipalities out of 8,000 have less than 1,000 inhabitants: right to health yes, because life comes first, but without dividing families from families and Italians from Italians. [[Applause]] President Conte, if you want to talk about this and not about fillings and armchairs, the League and the entire center-right are at your disposal. Viva l'Italia delle libertà e dei piccoli Comuni! [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u83	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Senators and Senators, we are going through terrible days and difficult times. The Italians have certainly shown a good understanding of the need for certain sacrifices. In fact, we can say that the Italians understood the moment, while politics did not. I repeat, politics doesn't. Unfortunately, once again, we must register the impossibility for this House to debate issues that are the future of this country. These are European issues: the rule of law, integration, safety, covid and vaccines are all themes that trace the future of this country. Instead, we have heard here about everything and more: Commissioners, nominations, experts, task forces, governance. I repeat, we've heard everything. We also heard Senator Salvini's traditional shopping list. [[Applause]] I am referring to what we have always said every month: please come once before the end of the year and give us a solution. [[Applause]] I don't repeat to anyone who comes here and brings their own campaign leaflet. The electoral campaign will be there, but this is not the time to come to the House and bring your own electoral leaflet. I reply to my friend Matteo Renzi, to whom I say that health care, which he mentioned, from this Government received 8 billion and 4 others had them with the previous budget law. That's 12 billion! [[Applause]] The question, therefore, is not how much money health has had so far, but whether we have managed to spend all that money well. [[Applause]] This is the theme. Everyone knows that the resources of the recovery fund are bound and the lion's share is green and digital, which alone gets 60%. Therefore, we do not try to ammantare with phrases of the type "I say it for the good of the Country" or "I say it for the good of the Italians." We cannot have a debate on Europe without slipping into the swamp of gang wars and power beats. [[Applause]] We understand that on the horizon there is a mountain of billions and this tantalizes everyone's appetites and someone probably feels cut off. We understand this, but what we do not understand and justify is that in all this debate there has not been a single thought for the hundreds of bodies that are coming out of our hospitals every day, for men and women who will never celebrate Christmas again. [[Applause]] These men and women have sprung away from the affection of their loved ones, not because of a DPCM, but because of a disease and a health emergency that is still being used as a political weapon in this House. [[Applause]] Lidia Menapace, whom we commemorated this afternoon, the patriot who left us on Monday, also for Covid-19, said that we must ensure that the place where we live is as human as possible and, unfortunately, there are still too few voices calling for a more humane, fair and sound Europe in this House. Today we know that the new Europe will pass through the issuance of eurobonds, the mutualisation of debt, the alignment of national economies, the protection of the weakest classes, savers and unemployed with the Sure project. These are the themes banned from Brussels on which the Movimento 5 Stars had already wagered since it was decided to become decisive for the appointment of Mrs von der Leyen. Someone said that the Movimento 5 Stars made a pirouette and, at some point, became pro-European. No, we have always been strongly Euro-critical; even today we still distrust the Europeans of the first hour, those who supported the politics that went to Brussels with the hat in their hands and went back to Italy to do social butchery. [[Applause]] We continue to defend and support the values of solidarity today and we oppose those who then supported austerity policy, finance policy and banks. ( [[Comments).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u84	Keep it going. You all spoke and there was attention to what everyone said. Let Senator Licheri speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u85	LICHERI (M5S). Senators and senators, the resolution definitively archived that season. I invite you to read the resolution and not to let signs or newspapers fly. Read the resolution; read the last paragraph of page 13. We all vote on this resolution. The Italian Parliament will be the first in Europe to declare officially that we no longer want any intergovernmental body in Europe. [[Applause]] The first Parliament in Europe to certify the early death of the ESM. [[Applause]] The first Parliament to declare that it has exceeded the intergovernmental logic and has finished the philosophy of debt control rather than debt support. We shall vote on this motion for a resolution. The Italian Parliament on page 13, in the last paragraph, says: we expect as Italian citizens, even before parliamentary, a profound reform of the Stability and Growth Pact before its re-introduction. Let's demand it! [[Applause]] Senator Monti, with due respect and full respect, in this motion for a resolution is written what many in the past have not had the courage to say: Italy has become the protagonist in the tables of great decisions and we cannot risk throwing at the nettles that heritage of international credibility that has acquired our Premier. For a few hours an online agency has indicated Giuseppe Conte as the most influential politician in Europe at the moment. [[Applause.]] Is it possible that outside they became like this? Then we use Covid as an accelerator of the processes of change, we think of the green rule, the departure from the deficit of sustainable investments, the overcoming of the rules of engagement of the ECB and capital key, the radical and profound reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, which is the base on which the house of the ESM was built. It's not MES! I'm about to conclude. No European country wants ESM loans; in no European country is it discussed... [[Comments]] Mr. President, please. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u86	Senator La Russa, you're a Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u87	Please, Senator Licheri. LICHERI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Let us abandon this sterile ESM debate. No European country wants ESM loans and until the 5 Star Movimento sits on these banks Italy will never take them, it will never accept the money of Luxembourg. [[Applause]] Is it possible that we are talking about MES only in Italy? How is it that all the... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . - Just the morons. We are facing a terrible pandemic; millions of people are in serious difficulty. The billions of the recovery fund are coming, and is anyone talking about government crisis? Or does anyone talk about government crisis because the billions of the recovery fund are coming? [[Applause.]] An opposition leader - and I conclude, Mr President - said that on Wednesday either the government splits or the 5 Star Movement splits. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you speak for the Government, but for the Movimento 5 Stars we are still here. [[Applause]] We are all united, we are even more united than before, because we are all in a dream, to change a Europe where the old recipes did not work. [[Applause. Comments. The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u88	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u89	LICHERI (M5S). If there's a government crisis, the ballot boxes will be reopened. We are not afraid of the ballot boxes, we are not afraid of the defeats. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u90	Please let me finish. You've all crossed over. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u91	LICHERI (M5S). We are not afraid of ballot boxes. We are not afraid of defeats, because we have founded our victories on defeats. It's just a pity that, in the end, it will always be citizens who pay this bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u93	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u94	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, the European Stability Mechanism is the worst part of the European Union and represents everything the 5 Star Movement is fighting against. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u95	I'd like to listen. Please let everyone be in his place. Please, Senator Crucioli.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u96	CRUCIOLI (M5S). It embodies the primacy of finance over man and is the instrument to ensure that credits are repaid even at the cost of the sacrifice of entire peoples. It is the club against the states that remain behind, the instrument to take away their sovereignty, to the detriment of the weakest. It is the realm of secret minutes and immunity from any jurisdiction. We should therefore have given a mandate to the President-in-Office of the Council to call for a thorough reform or to cage this monster into other instruments to mitigate its harmfulness. That was the famous package logic. Instead, we are sending the President to renew Italy's accession to this treaty, allowing it, indeed, to approve some worsening reforms. The fact that the resolution calls for the President to promote the amendment of the Stability Pact, the revision of the ESM itself and the achievement of an agreement on the instrument called EDIS (European deposit insurance scheme) is contradictory. How, in fact, can we reconcile these demands with the ok to the strengthening of the ESM that we are authorising? The stability pact that we are calling for to be revised is the very basis for the existence of the ESM Treaty, which today's vote is intended to confirm and worsen. Do you not realize, moreover, that asking for the radical modification of the ESM in the same document with which we reaffirm its accession is paradoxical? What the President-in-Office of the Council has said on this point does not seem to me to be acceptable. If we really want to rethink in a radical way the structure and function of the ESM - as you have told us, Mr President - we must not go to Europe and give accession to a reform that confirms and strengthens its installation. As for EDIS, this instrument should have been approved at the same time as the reform of the ESM, not first the ESM and then perhaps EDIS. In conclusion, I fear that today Parliament is unknowingly arming the hand that might strike us tomorrow. Your vision of the magnificent and progressive fate of the European Union is the result of a prospective error. I believe that the urgent need to reiterate and strengthen the ESM is by no means a passage from a broader project of European solidarity, but rather the desire to reaffirm that the aid season for the pandemic... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u97	I do not understand what you intend to vote for, as you disagree with the Group. I invite you to say it and conclude it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u98	CRUCIOLI (M5S). I'm almost done. I believe that strengthening the ESM means repeating that the aid season for the pandemic is temporary and linked exclusively to the need for our shipwreck not to drag the whole European situation with it. The ECB's bazooka will not be shooting for long: after the health emergency we will be asked for the account and the ESM is the tool. Today, all of us are presenting ourselves with the judgment of history: it remains with the acts that I have fought loyally, with all my strength and to the very last against this resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u101	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, when I was in high school I felt a little stupid to have to explain Zenone's paradox that, in a race, Achilles would never reach the turtle to which he had granted an initial advantage. Today, however, I see that there is someone more paradoxical than Zenone, almost a Zalone. Well, Count Zalone would like us to believe that the reform of the ESM must be voted on but must not be implemented because it is ugly, dirty and bad. The paradox you propose is illogical, it is a non-sense, as much as the turtle that would be ever further than Achilles. You'll get the MES. You will be forced to take it because that Brussels by von der Leyen, which has already forced you to reform itself, will order it. That Brussels where you went to pick up Minister Gualtieri. The ECB will not for long continue to act as if it were a lender of last resort, to buy securities on secondary markets, to widen the links of capital key rule or to force its role on interest rates because the ECB instruction booklet does not provide for this. The Japanese Government yesterday approved another stimulus plan of EUR 580 billion. Thus, when the ECB stops pretending to be market makers, interest rates will rise and play with the rules of the financial markets and as no one will cover our shoulders anymore, the government will have to access the ESM credit line, other than dismantle it. Count and Gualtieri promised Mrs. Ursula that we would be disciplined schoolchildren and that Italy will be ready to restructure the public debt as the hawks want, thus still imposing sacrifices, cuts and austerity. You are betraying the sense of the vote of the last policies: the majority of Italians wanted to get out of the system, from the cage and for this reason had democratically rewarded the forces that presented themselves as antisystem. You are completing the transition from sovereign people to sovereign markets, from citizens to sovereign lobbies and sovereign aprons. You have emptied this House, you have no more modesty. In order to hold this government of "euroinomans" the Movimento 5 Stars is betraying the program it presented to the voters, it is betraying the citizens who wanted to see it fight to defend the sovereign people and those who fight the right battles can die, true, and those who flee, as you are doing, will remain alive, at least until the end of the legislature. But in many years from now, are you sure you won't dream of trading every day that you've been living since today to have another chance, just another opportunity to defend the freedom of Italians, to reject the blackmail of finance, to scream that the rules of Brussels are an infamous blackmail? You're saying yes today, you're saying yes to the MES. You're paying homage to Charon for another oar blow to push the Italians towards eurohell. No, MES. Viva Italexit!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u104	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that among the many possible criticisms of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Giuseppe Conte, the most pertinent, and even the most serious, is that he has wrapped himself and the nation in an untrue narrative. We have heard Italy elevating as a model for the ability to contain the virus. We have heard of a vigorous recovery in the economy. That is obviously not true. It is serious for a head of government to force the reality and even more serious than force it on such a dramatic terrain for the nation, the health and economic crisis. I believe that those who are preparing to act as government and those who aspire to represent a credible alternative of government must avoid the risk of falling into similar mistakes, of forcing reality, even if they do not have the same responsibilities, and even if they are on less slippery but not less symbolic grounds. Realism, I believe, should be our main compass and I believe that the reality is that if we in the center-right, the perimeter within which I was and always will remain, we were in the government, the reform of the ESM would have approved it. And we would have approved it as all the other governments of the eurozone approved it; we would have approved it by engaging and engaging in our political capacity to temper over time its distortions and criticalities, which are there; but we would have approved it. We would have approved it because, as we need Europe today, and never as today, Europe has changed its mark and its meaning: we have passed - and it was not easy to imagine it - from intergovernmental logic to Community logic. And if we didn't approve of that reform, we would put at risk the resources of the recovery fund that we desperately need. We would have approved the reform of the ESM because it is anyway better than the original ESM, and if it did not pass that reform we would be with the ESM of origin. We would have approved it because the Confindustria, the banking system and the employers' associations are asking us to do so. We would also have approved it because, otherwise, we would have attracted that stigma effect which, wrongly, it is believed that Italy would be attracted if it had access to the pandemic ESM. Colleagues, we live in difficult times and complex problems. Banalizing the complexity of the problems I believe is detrimental to the possibility of resolving them when they are responsible. For these reasons, thanking the colleagues of the Forza Italia Group and the Parent Company for their respect and sensitivity in recognizing my reasons, not being able to vote in favour of the Government's motion for a resolution, because this would run the risk of making me responsible for the survival of a Government that I consider to be exificial for the present and for the future of the country, not because it is an evil Government, but because it is a Government born stalled and that has remained, announcement that I will not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u106	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u107	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, colleagues, in March 2018 33% of Italians gave confidence to a party that came to Parliament to dismantle the ESM, a programme item that was put to the vote of the citizens on the platform. Today, the so-called spokesmen will do the exact opposite: not only will they not dismantle the ESM, but they will even give the green light to its enhanced version. It will thus become possible, for a simple majority of holders of our public debt, to request its restructuring, as the Franco-German axis wanted since the monthberg summit in June 2018. The European Commission will no longer have an equal role with the ESM in managing the financial emergency of the eurozone, which will remain in the hands of the ESM alone, whose members today have all kinds of immunity and whose seats are inviolable. With the Single Resolution Fund, our taxpayers will be called upon to rescue the banks of others and all types of aid will be subject to the assessment of debt sustainability, monitored every six months under conditions that can always be revised. I say this above all to you that, in an attempt to maintain what little electoral support you have left, you do not care to say that you are only giving the green light to the worsening reform, but that you do not ask for its activation. Too convenient. The truth is, you leave the door open to anyone who wants to activate it. Instead, this had to be stopped right now, as promised to the voters. All this can still be stopped by voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 3, signed by Senators Martelli and Ciampollo, in which these two simple commitments are contained: firstly, not accepting the amendments to the Treaty; secondly, communicating the desire to leave the ESM. I shall therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution No 3 against the motion for a resolution by a majority and against the others which do not provide for a halt to the reform of the ESM.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u108	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Licheri, Marcucci, De Petris, Unterberger and Pharaoh. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] Please leave those signs or I have to suspend the session... I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 21.07 a.m. and resumed at 21.08 a.m.) On motion for a resolution No 2, the Government gave a favourable opinion, provided that the presenters accept the proposed rewording. Do you accept it, Senator Bonino? BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bonino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] As the motions for resolutions have been adopted, no. 1 (text 2) and 2 (text 2), the remaining motions for resolutions tabled are not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u109	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: By way of derogation from the second subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of persons and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of persons (204).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-280.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 14 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.11 a.m.
