ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u6	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, the first Commission is convened in these minutes to complete the examination of the last amendments. So, precautionally, we would like to ask for the shift of the beginning of the works to 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u7	I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.36 p.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1970. The rapporteur, Senator Valente, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u9	Mr President, the decree-law of which the House is today launching the examination renews, with some new elements, the regulatory system that we have built since the beginning of the pandemic with the measures that - I remind everyone - govern the whole phase of emergency: I am referring to Decree-Law No. 19, 33 and 83 of 2020. Allow me, however, at the beginning - not for a tired and usual ritual - to thank the Government for the work done on the measure under consideration, particularly undersecretary Malpezzi. I would also like to thank Mr Parrini and the members of the 1st Commission for a sense of responsibility which - I can say - has indeed gone through the work of the Commission and all its members, majority forces and opposition forces, as well as of course the offices. Mine is a truly sincere thanks, because it was not a simple job, but that we have brought home all in all in quite reasonable times and without particular tensions (just those tensions that the country would not need at this stage, while it would always need peace and merit and that is what we have striven to do with the measure under consideration). We have, therefore, looked at the choices that the Government has made and submitted to the conversion of Parliament, considering the merits of the individual provisions, which - I remind everyone, although for the sake of brevity and clarity - are related to the extension of the existence of all those contained in previous decrees-laws no. 19, 33 and 83 of 2020, with a particular reference (to which I will return later) to No 83, because in that case, instead of until 31 January, some of the famous rules of Annex 1 will be extended until 31 December. In particular, we are talking about the provisions already in force, which provide for the possibility for the Government to take measures to limit the health risks arising from the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus. It is then added - but I believe that this too has now entered the collective imagination, in our awareness - the obligation, of which those in this House are proof, to always carry with them the devices for protecting the airways. This extends the circumstances that require them to be worn, so not only in closed places accessible to the public, but more generally in indoor places other than private homes. Another important modification concerns the ability of the Regions - also to our attention these days - to introduce derogations from those provided for at national level. Therefore, within the limits of their competences, the Regions may temporarily introduce more restrictive or broadening measures; but only when they are extensive, the need for agreement with the Ministry of Health has been introduced; therefore, if the Regions instead had to choose restrictive measures, they could simply communicate it. That of the understanding is the form of intercourse able to offer the greatest guarantees in the general interest, therefore for both the central State and the Regions, and from this point of view it turns out an element of positive novelty of the measure. In particular, Article 1, paragraph 3, as I said before, also makes changes to Decree-Law No 83 of 30 July 2020. In particular, the operations of the provisions due to expire on 15 October, as set out in the famous Annex 1, which is subject, inter alia, to certain adjustments, shall be extended to 31 December 2020. Again, in the measure it is expected that diagnostic investigations related to exposure to the risk of infection by Covid-19 of all personnel of the Police Forces, Armed Forces and Firefighters' Corps can be carried out by the health service of each body. As I said just now, the examination in the Commission has undergone some changes, which I believe also give value to the fact that Parliament, when it converts such significant decrees-laws, says its, therefore amends the rules as they come from the Government. This morning, in this report I would like to focus on the changes that we have made as a Commission and I will try to go quickly. First of all, an amendment - by the Government, in this case - has been inserted the extension of the deadline to 31 December 2020 of the suspension of the activities of notification of new payment records or of the payment of those previously sent and of the acts of the agent of collection. It also extends to 31 December the period during which the instalment is due (with the non-payment of ten instalments instead of five). It is also envisaged that the time limit for initiating the notification of the folders will be postponed by 12 months. In relation to the work of the Commission, the recent measure by which the Government has postponed - for obvious reasons of security, setting the deadline as of March 31, 2021 - the elections of the Municipalities dissolved by mafia infiltrations, already announced for the dates of November 22 and 23, and those for the renewal of the Presidents of the Provinces and provincial councils, including those already announced. Moreover, only for 2020, in case of renewal of the City Council, the deadline to proceed to new elections of the Metropolitan Council is set in one hundred and eighty days from the proclamation of the mayor of the Town Council. A change has also been introduced concerning in-house companies, to which the general rules of the Civil Code on the extension of administrative and trade union bodies apply temporarily - until 15 December 2020 - in the event of termination of office for the expiry of the period. This is a measure that responds to the needs of continuity and proper functioning of the social bodies, at a stage when there are delays in the renewal of the bodies in expiration, due to the emergency from Covid-19. It is then extended by another twelve months, without additional charges for the state's coffers, the state of emergency relating to exceptional weather events, which took place from 2 October 2018, which have hit many Italian regions hard, as is extended until 31 December 2024 the duration of their special accounts, taking into account that the current epidemiological emergency prevented the conclusion of interventions financed from the resources made available in the public budget. The decree-law, through a rule inserted during the examination in the Commission, intervenes in order to give timely implementation to the judgment of the Court of Justice of 3 September 2020, which has decided on a series of questions raised by the TAR of Lazio, assessing the discipline provided for in Article 43, paragraph 1, of the single text of audiovisual media services not suitable, in concrete terms, from the point of view of proportionality, to guarantee pluralism of the media. In this context, the rule under consideration intervenes in the more than implementation of the legislative delegation for the revision of the discipline of field; it provides for a transitional regime of six months, during which, if a subject is to operate simultaneously in the markets of electronic communications and in the Integrated System of Communications (SIC), the Authority for the guarantees in the communications carries out an investigation aimed at verifying the existence of distorting effects or positions detrimental to pluralism, to whose outcome the remedies already provided for in article 43, paragraph 5 of Legislative Decree No 177 of 2005. During the examination in the Commission, certain deadlines were also deferred until 31 December 2020 and 31 January 2021 for the dispatch by the municipalities of decisions to tax revenue. Again with regard to local authorities, I would like to mention the proposal - which I believe is important and significant for all of us, which emerged during the debate in the Commission - to recognise, in particular, the mayors of smaller municipalities, who often carry out another job, the possibility of taking advantage of paid permits, so that they can manage emergencies on a full-time basis. This proposal, which emerged in the debate in the Commission and which was shared by several groups, was shared by the Government as well and the commitment to overcome a technical difficulty, which is now being put to our attention, and to find solutions in future measures as soon as possible. Article 2 intervenes in the Covid-19 alert system to strengthen the use of the EU's common technological tools to combat the epidemic. That is, the interoperability of the Immuni application with platforms operating in the territory of the Union is expected. The alert system will operate until the need for protection and prevention of public health related to the spread of the virus and in any case until 31 December 2021 has ceased. Article 4 then inserts SARS-Cov-2 into the list of biological agents that are known to cause infectious diseases in humans. Finally, Articles 6 and 7 provide for financial cover for the entry into force of the measure. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to add one more political consideration to this decree-law which we are debating today, after the rapid evolution of the epidemiological data of the last few weeks, to which we have all been attentive. I believe that the picture we have before us today, that of these hours and these days, is to be comforted by what we said a few weeks ago in relation to the need to renew, with the decree on our examination, the emergency instruments that we had given ourselves as a regulatory framework, that the Government had given itself and that Parliament had shared. I believe that the situation before us also requires us to work with instruments other than the usual ones and with the measure before us we have demonstrated the protagonism and the role of Parliament in the management of an epidemic that is unfortunately still unpredictable in times and forms. I believe that the measure before us has done a good job. We have also essentially responded to the political debate these days and hours, in which we wondered how Parliament's role can be valuable and important. Of course, our attention remains high in order to seek other possible solutions in order to resolve the role of Parliament more effectively and make it easier. In the meantime, with the rules we have at our disposal, we have certainly done a good job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mrs Valente, has already made an effective summary of the rules contained in the measure in our examination, which - let me say - reminds me of so many others that have already passed through this House (and I have a strong feeling of déjà vu). Of course, some passages are interesting: for example the coordination of the Immuni app with other European platforms or the reference to a more incisive use of personal protective equipment. My question, however, is this: do we need to proceed, by rules of this kind, with individual decrees? Let's imagine we have to take a trip, have to leave for a destination and stop every ten meters to decide where to go for the next ten. This measure is the expression of the inability of the majority to operate a programming and to have a system vision. We are now faced with a total confusion in the hierarchy and in the use of regulatory sources. In my view, there are rules in this measure which, yes, would have deserved to be inserted into sources of subordinate rank. Why are we faced with such a decree? In the months that we can call calm, this majority has not made any programming. When the time and spread of the virus allowed it, we should have approved a kind of unique text of the pandemic, identifying the actions to be taken in the event of progress of the pandemic itself. We should have warned of what would happen with the increase of the contagions. This would have had the effect of allowing Italians to organize themselves, to plan their activities and also to limit the damage. We know that some people in the months of tranquillity have started entrepreneurial activities taking them from other subjects and then these people have been in a very difficult condition for the resumption of the spread of the pandemic. That's not good. We have a President-in-Office of the Council who is abusing the Civil Protection Code because, on the one hand, he is using the DPCM as if they were decrees, preventing Parliament from having a healthy debate on the content and, on the other hand, using the decree-laws as if they were subordinate measures. This means that this majority is proceeding without a plan and lives on the day. ( [[Applause).]] We are often asked what we would have done if we had been to the government. Well, we would have taken a measure, comparing ourselves with everyone, able to identify the next steps and to establish a sort of automatism with the progress of the pandemic. When, in fact, we call for unity and ask to unite the country in order to counter this threat, we must also respond to this request in Parliament's classrooms and do so in a normatively orderly manner, accepting the opposition's amendments and not closing the doors to that opposition which is called for cooperation. The League's judgment, therefore, on the work of this majority is completely negative both for the modalities and for the contents. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u12	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u13	Mr President, Government, colleagues, after months of constructive opposition almost unheard of, we are - we are sorry, believe us - to see realized, like Cassandra, how much we would have liked with all our strength had prevented: a tricolour Italy not for the colors of the flag, but for the various levels of pandemic crisis that have led again to the closure of many activities, first of all of all the school activities in presence. Today it closes because making the summer cicada has led to not being ready to face the second predictable wave of the pandemic. Today it closes because the rules are there, but the concrete action of control and an interministerial organization of support to reopenings is missing. Today it closes by throwing Italy back into the infernal circle of lockdown simply because in the summer months of the release of the virus nothing or little wise, practical and concrete was done to prevent or at least limit this new closure. Note: everything that has been entrusted to the initiative of schools, productive activities and businesses was working and now is penalized by everything that was in the hands of the Government, which was not able to manage. Today we have empty schools full of wheelchairs, cities full of scooters parked everywhere, unused holiday bonuses. How much has been spent could have been better organised and at least improved health and transport. Sooner or later we will have to judge in a cold mind what has come in the three and a half months that have passed between mid-May and early September. Unfortunately, the fact, the fact that there is too little or the fact that there is too little and the fact that it is too late will risk leading to an additional loss of human lives greater than the one directly produced by the pandemic, not to mention the social and economic consequences. Today it is closed by the presumption of being able to do everything on its own, thinking that at times like this it still makes sense for the government not to involve Parliament in its entirety. I'm tired of repeating these things on my own. The problem is not only the DPCM, which, however, for charity, contain interesting and shared ideas. There is also a whole range of things in this measure that are absolutely acceptable, and the proof is what the rapporteur has said, namely that we have actually worked together. The problem is that every initiative is part of a puzzle whose cards do not coincide, because, besides not talking to Parliament in its entirety, the Government does not even sometimes speak to its own inside; therefore there is no overall vision. A Minister of Education who does not speak to the Minister of Transport and ensures that schools are not prepared and that the virus has expanded because transport was not ready gives the measure. Let's start with the concept of state of emergency. What does state of emergency mean? Health, social, economic? Or the emergence of an inadequate government from the first day, which has continued to act unceasingly to lighthouses off in the night, despite the offers of help and collaboration of the whole constitutional arc, completely disinterested and never heard? At this moment, wanting to help is also taking responsibility. We want to take responsibility and we want to share this responsibility. Let us return to the emergency and reiterate our proposals. The ESM could be used for the emergency and the ESM can still be used; On the other hand, in order not to break useless balances, there has been still a "no thanks," we do not need it, we have the commissioners and a very efficient system of medicine in the territory. Allow me to shoot a moment on the Red Cross, because I can't take it anymore: the passage from Cotticelli to Zuccatelli gives the meter of the play of the absurd that is going on stage in Italy. Even Ionesco and Beckett couldn't have screened such a surreal work. [[Applause]] The first is said to be unaware and then drugged, while the other, the new, evokes scenes of long French kisses in order to become infected, revealing an unacceptable negationism. Count says he apologized. Yes, yes, let's tell the families of the old people, of the poor old RSAs, as they would have infected according to Zuccatelli, let's try to tell them! [[Applause]] The final twist could have it if it were to appear, as deus ex machina, no more than Gino Strada, ready to intervene on an Italian Region, Calabria (defined by Minister Boccia's extraordinary land), as if it were a territory of the third world. But it would have sufficed once more to listen to the sorry governor Jole Santelli [[Applause]] , which in September had already launched the alarm, writing a long letter to Prime Minister Conte in which he denounced the fact that she was completely exonerated in the action for his Region. But maybe a center-right governor can't have a voice; maybe that's it. Basically, what is less evident today is what we will pay tomorrow. Our young people will not have training, our staff will not have the appropriate updates to be competitive, blocking the school and training will mean lowering the level of preparation in every place. Well, this is today. Let us think about tomorrow (and I am really closing): for the umpteenth time we ask the Government to lower its head and to work with open eyes and ears, to stop talking and going on television, but to watch what happens, to listen to the voice of Parliament, which is that of the people, and to act, having the courage sometimes also to turn away those who have proved manifestly inadequate and not to the task entrusted to it, starting with certain Ministers. You can't joke anymore; the jokes about the mistakes of the government and ministers are no longer funny. We are still here and will put you to the test with the decree of restors, because, if the weight of the responsibility to destroy our beautiful country falls on all of you, it would not be a joy for us. In conclusion, we are here, we are still here and despite everything we will continue to put before the good of the country, because every remedy, if there is still time, must be arranged immediately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u14	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u15	Mr President, the question that I have asked myself mainly during this period, since the beginning of my mandate, but even more so from March to today, is how we can make ourselves useful to this country, as I can make myself useful to the country. 12.29 a.m. (Follow VESCOVI). From there I listened mainly to a part of my territory: the restaurateurs, bartenders, traders, the economic world, but also the health world. I went to see the different situations in our health world. The question I asked myself is how did you make yourself useful to the country? I remember when you in this House criticized the excellent choice of opening the hospital at the Milan Fair in health care: you all criticized it from those benches, while today it is useful. In your place then I would be ashamed of what has been said, when you attacked the opening of the hospital at the Milan Fair. Perhaps, if even the governor of Campania, instead of going on television screaming and screaming, had opened a hospital in Campania, today the situation would be better. [[Applause]] The question, I repeat, is how do you make yourself useful to the country. Perhaps we should defend our borders more, even from a health point of view, not letting everyone in, and I am referring to both the internal territorial borders of Italy and those with other countries. The health aspect is fundamental and the economic aspect is subordinate to it, but also from an economic point of view I would like to understand how you have made yourself useful, since you only make extensions: it is an extension. Let us continue, for example, the deadlines for paying the debit cards, but that is not what we need today: we need fiscal peace because, after a year that entrepreneurs do not work, how will they pay the debit cards and taxes next year? Perhaps we have to ask ourselves a question about this and I come to the point. I have tabled a bill - and I have also written it in an amendment - for the payment of 50% of commercial rents. When I happened to go on television with colleagues in the majority, I was told by some that it was a good idea, except here in this House we have to confine ourselves to discussing only rent tax credit. This is not necessary, however; an urgent measure such as the reduction of commercial rents to 50% is needed. In fact, even if today you extend the ban on dismissal and the Cassa Integrazione - both right measures, of course - you must understand that with your system of managing the country the Italian companies are closing. I realize that you may not primarily have a vision of the country's future. The thing that worries me the most is that the government doesn't have a vision, it doesn't know where to take us. I see it in justice, for example, since, instead of perhaps thinking about reform, the only thing you did was free the mob bosses. Then I think about the education system. We told you: "Don't do the contest, because there are problems," but you have done so and now you have suspended it and there will be a whole series of issues. Listen to us more, then, make yourselves useful. A total vision is missing. I would like to live by perhaps witnessing an important reform. We have a Council President who has moved from the Chair of the University of Florence to govern a country without ever being elected and, through DPCM, is managing economic freedom and people. [[Applause]] But how is that possible? Let's see this again. Perhaps to make you really useful to Italy - and then I am silent - there would be an important step to take: resign, go home, free the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u16	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has said that we must try to have calm, calm tones, and she is certainly right, in the sense that the time is extremely difficult. However, I believe - and when I say this to the whole of politics, and therefore to the majority and oppositions - that one must necessarily be realistic and pragmatic. Since I only have five minutes, I will only focus on one point: institutional chaos. I think it's time to put some order into this institutional chaos, which has seen a ripple of responsibility between the Government and the Regions and the Regions and the cities. Believe me, this institutional ripple is becoming tiresome and feeding the community a sort of nervous anxiety and anger towards all politics. And when I say all politics, I turn not only to the majority, but also to the opposition. Bringing the debate on a polarization of topics, tones and perspectives certainly does not help to draw the future of this country, which we must draw together. This situation is embarrassing, because when you look through the list of regional ordinances and decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers you realize that they are almost always in conflict with each other. I wonder, therefore, if we do not all think it is time to make a careful reflection on Title V of the Constitution and reason on a sort of institutional reset fifty years after the establishment of the Regions, which were wanted in 1970 as planning and not management bodies. They are bodies to which we have given more and more resources and, since we sit here and know how to read the documents, we cannot hide that they have contributed in an important way to increase the debt of the country. I would remind you that we have also passed through the constitutional reform of 2001 and - and I am speaking above all to the PD, who wanted that change in a particular way - I believe that we should all reason on this reset with great lucidity, especially in view of a strong change, which is now indispensable to give a new model of growth and development and which cannot go through 20 different types of legislation at all. Today the world is so big, but also so small for the interconnections that all of us know to the point that - I try to say something throwing a little' the heart beyond the obstacle - it is perhaps time to give back the function of programming to entities that are not even more conceivable like the twenty Regions, but - perhaps - like macro Regions, since there are territorial realities that can be well together thinking about a world (and our territory) more and more interconnected. This would also lead us to reason in constructive terms on the three areas that have been the most affected by the pandemic (school, transport and health) and on which regional models, at the moment in conflict with each other and with national directives that are increasingly necessary, could truly represent the challenge of the 21st century and of this Parliament, which still has time ahead to reflect. We are all aware that reforms require time, good will, listening ability and a little detachment from individual belongings. I turn to the very last reflection on the subject of digital, which is particularly close to my heart and on which (we have read the statements of Minister Patuanelli) there will be substantial resources. I recommend that this is a matter on which the state really needs to intervene, which means that it does not want to make everything public - absolutely - but to rethink the model of collaboration between the public and the private. In fact, we are talking about a sector of the economy that will become increasingly strategic and will have to be governed strongly at the central level. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u18	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u19	Mr President, initially, when I saw how the government was drowning in the face of this second wave, I had the idea that there was no seriousness on the part of the government, perhaps the ability to share the responsibilities of such a difficult moment. Moreover, the most obvious thing, when you are at a difficult time, is to try to share the responsibility as much as possible, even with the forces of the opposition, but this has not been done. I had perhaps raised the issue from the point of view of a lack of general strategy, because seeing the Government that is not able to guarantee health to our citizens on the one hand and, on the other, the wealth of the country and the stability of our economy had led me to analyze the issue in the form of a substantial inability of the Government. There are no therapeutic guidelines on how to treat the Covid-19 and there are no precise guidelines aimed at safeguarding small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, as well as safeguarding productivity and our economy. Then I realized that it was not so; it is not a question of inadequacy, it is not a question of lack of seriousness and it is not even a question of lack of strategy. Perhaps another general strategic plan is being pursued. Keep saying you don't have time, yet you have found time in the last three months, for example, to liberalise the para-abortive pill for minors, without prescription, nor parental signature, forgetting that the same 30 milligrams EllaOne drug has been banned, with the name of Esmya in concentration of 5 milligrams (i.e. lower) as toxic and harmful. [[Applause]] That is to say that for adults it hurts and for underage girls, without a prescription and without even the signature of the parents, it is very good, in concentration above all else. You have found the time - it is news these days - to liberalise light drugs, again with the history of pseudo-light cannabis, once again with this legend that light drugs can be sold in cannabis shops. The Minister of Health has found time to write a wonderful self-celebrative book, "Because we will heal: from the hardest days to a new idea of health", removed from the nighttime business because it was not the case, with Covid patients who left us pens in intensive therapies. [[Applause]] You have found the time to demonize the regions of the North that would have been unable to manage health care, so much so that in this same Chamber I have heard luck say that there are contributions from the regions of the South, because otherwise...In contrast, when, attacking the independence and autonomy of regional health, the objective was not to hit the disease, that is, the Covid, but to hit autonomy, because there is a fundamental project. What is this basic project? [[Applause]] You have blocked for months, from July to today, the work of the Chamber of Deputies for the Zan bill, which will put a blindfold on our mouths. [[Applause]] It is a liberticidal law that does nothing but do damage and bring gender into schools. Why? You did this because you have a very clear objective: to use the Coronavirus crisis to abolish the family, to abolish traditions, to abolish values and to abolish our identity. [[Applause]] You have done this so that our country is handed over to the great lobbyists, to the great speculations of international finance, who have all the tools and all the interest in transforming our country, like the entire West, from a society of families into a sort of coacervo of lonely, isolated, frightened and terrified individuals. That is what you are doing. We won't let you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u20	Before continuing with the general discussion, I would like to inform the House of the continuation of the work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today's sitting will be suspended for one hour at the end of the general debate and the replies, so that, on the advice of the quaestors, the sanitisation of the House can be carried out, and that the current health situation is awaited. At the next meeting of the Conference of Leaders, the arrangements for the next meetings will be laid down. Indicatively, around 3.30 p.m., there will be an hour's suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u21	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the converted decree-law contains some measures relating to the need to extend the state of emergency linked to the pandemic by Covid-19. It is a difficult situation that affects in a very painful way the lives of so many people and families; I repeat, of so many families: this is a word that we are extremely fond of, because the family is the place of love. Families are strongly marked, and social cohesion and the maintenance of the economic system are also damaged by the pandemic. The pandemic has proved to be a terrible multiplier of inequalities since the first wave, and the key word for trying to keep together the response we have to give to the economy and to health is really struggle with inequalities. The closures and the necessary isolation affected in different ways self-employed and employed workers, men and women, Italians and foreigners, families with children or families without children, entrepreneurs and traders. One of the most worrying fractures of this time, the one between guaranteed and unattainable, and with it dangerous feelings of frustration, anger and loneliness, has thus become even more acute. Here, the loneliness: the solitude of the soul, the solitude that leads to the questions of meaning, the solitude that each of us, even the most guaranteed, can often experience. That is why, together with some colleagues of majority and opposition, we wanted to take the opportunity of converting this decree-law to give a response to companies in difficulty by approving in the Commission amendments 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, all of the same content. With these amendments we have tried to ensure the immediate entry into force of the provisions of the Code of Business Crisis and Insolvency relating to tax and social security transactions. As is well known, the entry into force of the Enterprise Crisis Code was scheduled for 15 August 2020. As a result of Covid-19, it was proposed to extend it to 1 September 2020-2021, subject to certain expressly stated provisions that have already entered into force. They did not, however, include - and for this reason we had to do this good cross-cutting work - the discipline of the tax and social security transaction: an instrument that has a decisive importance for the rescue of firms in difficulty or in liquidity crisis that, as the situation became worse due to the effect of the Covid-19, would be doomed to bankruptcy. In particular, this is the possibility of access to the instruments of the debt restructuring agreement, exactly as amended and revised in the context of the new discipline of the business crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u23	Senator, I'd ask you to keep the mask on. I think she's inadvertently...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u24	CIRINNA' (PD). There's no one here, but he's right. This would enable agreements to avoid the unnecessary insolvency of productive realities, resulting in the preservation of both the same and the jobs concerned. In particular, the new corporate crisis code makes it possible to assess the affordability of the proposed treatment compared to the alternative represented by the judicial winding-up. The exclusive point of reference is the convenience for the creditor administrations of the plan compared to the outcome represented by the judicial liquidation that would be precisely the bankruptcy; everything thus guaranteeing to the treasury and the social security institutions the possibility of revenues certainly more convenient. We are therefore in the presence, ladies and gentlemen, of a provision which not only meets the needs of firms in difficulty, avoiding them from being exposed to financial distress, but at the same time represents a useful solution for the Treasury and social security institutions. I think it is very significant at this point that the initiative to approve these amendments has seen colleagues of different political background working together. Think of the work I have done with Senator Quagliariello, from whom I have been divided many battles; I want to say it precisely because in this case the transversality is of great help. In the face of the crisis of many companies it is possible to work together and collaborate beyond the fences that divide us. Around the anticipation of the entry into force of the tax and social security transaction has therefore created in the Senate a climate of strong sharing for interventions that have no political color and express rather a pragmatic and concrete approach to the very serious problems of the productive realities exhausted by the crisis due to the Covid-19. These are not flag measures or merely momentary measures, but a concrete and effective possibility of offering healthy productive realities, but endangered by the emergency of health care, targeted and concrete solutions, demanded by the productive categories and actually able to save jobs and productive capacities, without burdening public finances. For these reasons, I am sure that the House in the vote this afternoon will want to confirm the will expressed in the Commission to accept these amendments as a concrete and rapid response to the serious crisis that must not separate the economic solution from the health solution; the answer to the economic crisis is the same that must be given to the health crisis, with personal and collective responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u25	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because on the conversion of the measure we are facing today with regard to urgent measures for the extension of the declaration of the state of emergency, one aspect must, in my view, be focused. On the need for an extension of the state of emergency, the majority often told the opposition that our behaviour at the time would be unanticipated and not responsible because we opposed an extension of the state of emergency. I believe that in the course of conversion this dialogue between deaf people must first be clarified, otherwise we exchange accusations without understanding exactly what one party says to the other. We challenged the extension of the state of emergency at the time, because we challenged the system used to understand the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. We therefore contended with the limitation of personal freedoms, economic freedom and freedom of movement through instruments that we believe to be beyond the limit of constitutionality. Moreover, I would remind you that the emergency was declared on 31 January, but it was a sort of emergency at the speed of a snail, because then, when it came to doing it, we found ourselves in the situation in March that we all remember. We therefore have a two-speed emergency: a very slow emergency when we need to be careful and deal with the things that must be done on two directives (on the one hand, the reorganisation and structuring of health care, on the other, on the economic front, reimbursements or the integration fund) and an emergency that becomes a very rapid arrow when it comes to putting in place measures that limit personal freedoms. This is one point that I would like to make clear about the transition to the next concept that I wanted to make as a contribution to this House. I believe that today we are no longer in a position to define the pandemic as a situation in which our order is taken by surprise. I believe that we are no longer in an extraordinary situation, so we need extraordinary remedies. We must be aware of this, in a situation that is ordinary, because we are no longer caught by surprise. If that is true, it naturally has a number of consequences from a legislative point of view. If this becomes - as I believe - a situation of which we must have the courage to take note, knowing that it is a matter of ordinary management (maybe today with the emergency rule, tomorrow with the recovery plan, then with the budgetary maneuver), the dialogue between the majority and the opposition must surely be marked by a fair behavior. It is a behavior that we must find in the next acts that await us - I am thinking of the draft budget law, I am thinking of the ristori decrees (the first and the second and it seems that a third is coming) - but having the awareness that I referred to earlier, namely that we can no longer define the situation as emerging. It is a situation that now has the characteristics of ordinaryity and as such we must face it and resolve it. My colleagues, from those of the League to those of Forza Italia, have said that there is a willingness and must not be wasted; above all there must be a mutual ability to listen. I shall end the speech with the call I made at the beginning: it is useless to say today that the centre-right did not want to recognize the state of emergency, because what we did not recognize was the use of the DPCM for the limitation of personal freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u27	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, this is a copy-paste decree, perhaps acceptable at the beginning of the epidemic, but certainly not after ten months. You're chasing the virus and you have no idea how to prevent it, it's obvious. [[Applause]] You were hoping for luck after you slept all summer. Someone also wrote a book. Shame on you. [[Applause]] The Italians live a daily nightmare and you don't have plans for the second wave, because if they existed we wouldn't be like this. The League has been asking you for months and you also have the nerve to say that minorities do not cooperate. You were on vacation, weren't you? [[Applause]] You assured us that our boys would go back to school with a lecture in attendance and you have absolutely no adequate transport. The result is that high school kids are at home waiting for lessons that often don't even start. You're sacrificing the future of millions of students. Young people between the ages of eleven and twenty-one are experiencing an increase in anxiety disorders and depressive states, you know that, right? That's millions of people. You did not take care to train teachers for the conduct of distance teaching. It would have been the least, and not even that. The school is in complete disarray and the minister is still there like all of you. [[Applause]] Give the bonus scooter and holidays at the expense of hoteliers and not guaranteed students the connection and tools for distance teaching. Procurement has been delayed for months even to secure Internet connections: it looks like the Third World. However, you expect ATA staff to be able to provide their services in agile working arrangements. Tell us what an ATA employee does in agile work? Shame on you, all right? And then there is Arcuri, late also on the plan of reorganization of the hospital network. The ban is October 2nd, what did Arcuri do during the summer? The omniscient - and I always talk about Arcuri - with his wax face collects failures but does not touch, just like you, glued to your armchairs, peacocking you to have won some ballots when in 15 regions out of 20 governs the center right. [[Applause]] You have colored Italy red, orange and yellow, ignoring that some regions send the data late. We need transparency, certain information, communicated in a correct and unique way: Italians deserve the truth. During the summer, at least the procedures for molecular swabs had to be speeded up, but after almost a year there are endless tails even for quick ones and meanwhile people get infected, while the virus circulates, like the immigrants you continue to let in. [[Applause]] Except for borders, you close everything, without even common sense. Our entrepreneurs are desperate and they are the ones who keep the country up. You're ruining Italy because you don't know what it's like to work. Minister Hope and the President-in-Office of the Council say they will resist, that the vaccine will arrive first in the autumn, then at the end of the year, then it will be in the spring and then we will see. You must not deceive the Italians that the vaccine will come, because it is not up to you and you are not even able to guarantee the effectiveness of what will come. The news of America on the vaccine is certainly very good, but months will pass. You have another task: to ensure that the health system saves as many lives as possible. You must do this instead of playing with the wheelsets and with the patience of the Italians, destroying our economy. A multidisciplinary strategy is urgently needed to allow people to live with the virus and, at the same time, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, VAT matches that have respected protocols and guidelines to work. [[Applause]] Play with armchairs in areas where health care maladministration reigns and force people who really work to make unnecessary adjustments. Effective safety devices are needed for doctors, as well as competent and trained medical and health personnel are needed immediately. It's been almost a year, you've forgotten cancers, cardiovascular diseases, transplants, rare diseases and many more. We are at the door of a disastrous wave for health represented by everything that is not Covid and we will see it in the coming months, far beyond any worst scenario. All this happens because we are ruled by incapable. When you govern, especially in complex situations like this one, you have to be humble, without strutting on television or writing books rather than thinking about the interest of Italians, who I am sure will send you home very soon! And you'll pay the bill too! We'll take care of the League together with the CentroRextra to remind you of that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are debating here today is nothing more than a specification of the decree-laws previously issued by this Government: I refer in particular to Decree-Laws Nos. 19, 33 and 83 of 2020, published in March, May and July respectively. From this it is clear that this Government has absolutely no overall vision, a clear perspective on how to deal with this serious emergency. Today you try to run to the shelter with this umpteenth provision, but without that the same minimally reflects the real productive needs of the country system. I would like to examine with you some articles of the same that have to do with the productive activities. For example, Article 1 (1) (b) introduces the obligation to always have breathing protection devices, with the possibility of providing for the obligatory use in indoor and outdoor places; for the places of economic, productive, administrative and social activities, as well as for the consumption of food and drink, the application of the protocols and anti-contagion guidelines is instead stopped. These same protocols and guidelines, Mr President, have been followed by our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen and also our restaurateurs; in recent months, in order to adapt to these protocols and guidelines, our entrepreneurs and our craftsmen have spent so much money that this Government has not yet repaid [[Applause]] Pursuant to Article 2 (a), the Regions may introduce measures to address the epidemiological emergency by way of derogation from those contained in the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. This option can only be exercised if the measures are more restrictive, unless the same decrees provide otherwise. In fact, Article 1, paragraph 3, letter a), extends from 15 October to 31 December 2020 the time limits provided for by the legislative provisions of Decree-Law No 83 of 2020; it is therefore allowed, until 31 December 2020, the adoption of the extraordinary measures adopted by the so-called Italian decree care for the production, by way of derogation from the current provisions, of surgical masks and personal protective devices. I would like to point out that this measure has been requested by our centre-right governors to deal with the emerging situation in March as a result of the serious shortage of personal protective equipment. This intervention has allowed some companies to repent and survive, but unfortunately this is not enough and is not enough. The League has legitimate concerns for the maintenance of the economic fabric of our communities, as well as the health one, and we know that in less than fifteen, twenty days we could most likely find ourselves, without creating alarmisms, to have 15 out of 21 regions collapsed with regard to intensive therapies, as knows those who live realities even at low contagion, not very high. These are supported by the evidence of the total inadequacy of the measures taken. It is undeniable that these interventions are completely inadequate and irreversibly penalise the programmatic ability of the entrepreneurs, now forced to navigate on sight. Much more must be done. I find it unacceptable, for example, Mr President, that the instalments of the plan to postpone the break-up on balance and to cancel with expiry in 2020 (a measure strongly desired by the League when it was in the government) should be paid by 10 December: that is shameful! [[Applause.]] In fact, the failure to pay by 10 December will result in the forfeiture of the simplified definition, with a further slap on the dignity of millions of VAT consignments, which would see defeated all the efforts made so far in the field. A clear proposal could be to postpone this deadline; we have repeated it and we always repeat it. Given the seriousness of the situation, the accumulated debt to date should be postponed to 2022 and will be accumulated until 10 December. Most SMEs are in difficulty; companies are in collapse, there is a clear contraction in consumption, there is fear of the future, the scenario that awaits us is really indefinite, and you know it. There will be many companies that, because of this expectation, because of your inability to build credible alternatives and to break down a suffocating bureaucracy, will be forced to close their doors, or, worse still, will be forced to fall into the network of organized crime. Every day the prefects and authorities of our territories talk about this, in our communities in the South, but also in the North and the Centre. [[Applause.]] The Italian Government cannot allow the abomination that is taking place. The Commission is spending millions of euros, yes, it is true, to welcome thousands of fake refugees. Why doesn't he use aid for businesses, artisans, traders, Italians? [[Applause.]] Businesses must be given concrete help and certainty about the future, and not just mere refreshments of which we read daily. We owe it to the many who believe in the freedom of economic initiative and who have invested their lives in their own business. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u31	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, since, on 7 October, the Government approved this decree-law, only a month has passed, and for the course of the epidemic it is a very long time: the contagions have dramatically increased, the beds in intensive care have been filled to great extent. The government had to intervene with a new DPCM, in which it enshrined a very important measure, namely that the mask should always be used, even outdoors, and it is a fundamental device. This is one of the most important principles we have laid down, together with social distancing. It is precisely the mask that is the starting point of a reasoning that has been ridiculed in this House for a long time, by many political leaders, even arriving - even within this House - at the denial of the coronavirus. This is absolutely unacceptable. I have been infected, I have had the coronavirus and I can say that it is not an influence, it is not a joke, there is nothing to deny: it is a disease to be taken seriously and to be dealt with in a concrete way. I got away from my family and was assisted and healed by the hospital ward, but for 42,330 people it wasn't like that, they didn't make it, and it was our parents, our friends, family, our grandparents, our work colleagues. [[Applause.]] We must tell everyone: the mask must always be worn. This says the decree-law, and it also says another very important thing, namely that the Regions will no longer be able to use measures less stringent than government ones, because there is a need for a connection, there is need to row in the same direction, which is to protect public health. [[Applause.]] I am Romagna, I was lucky enough to be in a region, Emilia-Romagna, which has reacted better than many other regions. I was lucky, I did not need to be hospitalized because in my Region there was the possibility to choose to spend the isolation in a dedicated structure, thus avoiding the risk of infecting my children and my loved ones. Now, however, I find it absurd that what happened to me, but maybe it could have happened to a family member or to a friend of mine, in another region it would have been handled differently because this principle does not exist or there is no. Unfortunately the regionalisation of health, with the reform of Title V of the Constitution has miserably failed in many, too many regions. [[Applause]] In the Senate, our president Paola Taverna presented a bill on this matter. When all this is over, we will have to think about how to change and better organize health care. We will have to reflect on those models that have preferred to give public money to private individuals and that, even in this emergency, have not been able to give answers. [[Applause]] We should seriously reflect on the exorbitant costs of services that are below an acceptable threshold, where even LEAs are not guaranteed. We should think about it, yes, because we should think about it. Now, however, is the time to act, so, for example, when I listen to the complaints that are heard on television or the declarations of the Presidents of the Regions that continue to discharge their responsibilities, I doubt that it is clear what problem we are facing. [[Applause]] We're fighting a virus together because there's been an epidemic. Not just us, the whole world is working in this direction. And we must constantly hear discussions about red or orange zones, rather than remedying the dysfunctions we are finding on the territories. What I want to say in this House today is that we must not lower our guard, which is not just to keep telling those outside who have to put their masks on and who have to distance themselves. It means - and I am addressing those governors who have not yet done so - to increase the seats in the ICU if it has not been done this summer. [[Applause]] It means strengthening, or in some cases even creating, USCAs to assist Covid patients at home. It means hiring doctors and nurses, running regional rankings and doing everything that...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u33	Excuse me, Senator Croatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u34	Senator Perosino, first of all you wear the mask, second, there have been energetic interventions from all parts of the hemicycle. [[Comments]] I understand, but you are registered to speak and you will have your moment of parliamentary protagonism. Please, Senator Croatti. CROATTI (M5S). The situation is difficult. This government is here. We have just adopted two ristori decrees and 210,000 transfers have already started for one billion euros to support companies in difficulty. We need collaboration, not complaints if, on the basis of twenty-one parameters drawn up in April that are analyzed by a direction cabin in which the Regions are also present, our region is located in red zone or orange zone. In conclusion, Mr President, I appeal to those outside this House. I welcome a theme that my colleague Guidolin always mentions: to counter this second wave of coronavirus, it is necessary to make a generational pact. I ask those who are younger, stronger and more in the form of demonstrating what is worth by protecting their parents and grandparents who are the roots, the guardians of our lives, of memory, of origins and of our past. [[Applause]] We have a great opportunity right now. We can finally rebel against individualism and instead give space to the community. Let's remember that sense of community we belong to. In its tragedy, the coronavirus pandemic requires us to think and reason through a principle that we often forget: the big problems are dealt with collectively. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u37	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I just wanted to point out that the President of the RAI Supervisory Commission has called for a hearing with Minister Gualtieri, so this is an important hearing. I also believe - I have always believed this every time it happened - that it is important to participate in the work of this House and, in fact, I am here. I find these overlaps to be inappropriate because they do not allow us to listen and confront each other, even if the House is half-empty, but that does not matter. I'm here. I will now have to leave to go to the Commission because the hearing is important, but I would ask the Presidency to manage the situation differently next time, including with President Barachini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u38	Senator Airola, I understand. Normally there's always a lot of attention. Clearly, these are special days. In any case, the Presidency takes note of this and will certainly take care of it. Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u39	Mr President, I support the content of Senator Airola's speech, but he is leaving instead of listening to me and I think it is correct that the seats are not overlapping. Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by countering what my colleague Mr Croatti said, whom I esteem, regarding the implementation of the beds of intensive care. I remember - I don't think I'm the only one to do that - that in Bergamo, in the Lombardy Region, a field hospital with 200 private-money intensive care places has been made and has been harshly criticized. At least Lombardy has little to teach about it. Mr President, it is clear that the government is very late compared to this second wave of the Covid because months have passed since the first wave. It was clear what could have happened: everyone had said it and remembered it, but we have come to a situation where confusion reigns supreme. I would also like to go a bit further than today's subject because my previous colleagues in the Group have been much more exhaustive and, therefore, I would like to make a more general argument focused on the tasks and delays of President Conte. Sometimes early elections are called for and the government is told to go home, but in my opinion the real problem is the lawyer of the people Giuseppe Conte. ( [[Applause]] ). There are no other responsible from this point of view. He's got burdens and honors. After all, when he called himself a man in command and when he made the DCPMs during the first wave, he had 60 percent of the consents and was very proud to be the only commander in chief. Today, instead, he probably looks for that shore that has always been asked for and never gave. He's looking for her today and probably taking a bath of humility maybe a little late. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that your delay brings us back to the national lockdown. Does anyone really think this isn't what's gonna happen in ten days? Moreover, the few sitting in this House raise their hands if they really think that Campania is a yellow region. Raise your hand! I see no one's raising her. ( [[Applause]] ). You too probably take note of the fact that Campania is not yellow. There is an internal conflict between the majority and the Democratic Party and, above all, there is a strong President of the Region who puts you in trouble for his things. You did yet another DPCM and, probably in the light of the polls on the people's lawyer - who first leaves, the better - you immediately made the decree of refreshments: on the one hand you told the Italians what to do by closing them in the red zones for your delays and, on the other hand, you gave them money. But be careful though, because when you did the first ristori decree you forgot about a line of people, economic activities with code Ateco, companies, VAT matches and, then, you had to make the ristori- bis decree. Now, according to further news, but hopefully it's a fake news, there's gonna be refreshments 3. We're at the joke. The planning of a government that can be defined as such should also include pandemic situations because - let us remember - it is not the pandemic of February, but now. You should have had, then, at least the ability to experience what you did. You're late on that too, so you're late on everything. But today you have a chance to do this to her. Please, don't forget the manufacturing industry, because you should know that they had the ability to reorganise themselves and put the staff in a position to be spaced out. If you also block that type of supply chain, if you block that sector too, do the same damage that Minister Franceschini did with tourism, which did nothing, because there is no provision on this subject. [[Applause]] I repeat that it is not a problem of Government; it is a problem of the man in command, who is not there and probably not even in Italy, because it is not seen, because he does things but then hurts them, he gets confused alone in reality. I am closing because I have probably reached the deadline, and I thank the President for giving me the opportunity to pass for a moment. I conclude by saying that you are a chance-born majority, that by chance you are ruling and that you probably now see dragons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u40	I remember that microphone problems are simply due to the fact that some microphones have been switched off to allow them to intervene from the stands. So, in case, let's give a few moments of synchronization and settling.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u42	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the other night, on the 9th, I celebrated the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall (sobly, only with the cohabitants). He left so many orphans this fact. I used a bottle of Roero, a bottle of white wine that my colleague Ferro had given me, and a truffle (we can). Then I did some tv zapping and watched the virology divisions. All this comforted me a little and made me re-evaluate politics, at least in part, if it does its duty. I think he really does his duty with the extension of the state of emergency. So I say that the President of the Republic should appear on television and appeal to the Italians, so that they are patient, respectful, educated (I am) and have civic sense. Then it is necessary for the Government to take decisions at the same time. In my view, the situation is very serious. I have heard the people of common sense, even in this House, of all the parties, the people I attend; it is better to continue to agonize with these decisions that go between red, orange and yellow or to make the decision to close everything, yesterday, the day before yesterday, a week ago, as was done in spring to interrupt the passage of the virus and the contagion and to give relief to hospitals? I have tried to hear, as will happen to all of you, the directors of ASL, the primary, but also the nurses, to understand the real situation of hospitals compared to what often appears on social care, to the work and to the detriment of the negationist community. The situation is serious, serious, emergent for real; too many assemblies. Schools defend them as often as possible, but they are a terrible vector. As far as transport is concerned, we know what has been done and what has not been done; the same is true of workplaces. I feel the families in which there is a positive that tell me: "How can I live separated from my children, separated from my family? I don't have spaces. And then there's a positive, a quarantiner, one who's in trust isolation, and one who's healthy, with all the consequences. To close everything is the only solution, which can bring and will certainly bring immediate damage to the billed and to the job; but it is better fifteen days than to agonize for six months. No government, dear Undersecretary, has ever been able to decide so much: 300 billion debt (and not enough), freedom, the DPCM and all the debates we have had. Where are you going to take us? Do you have a plan B (having a plan A, maybe)? When you decide, you decide not only for yourself, but also for us, for me, for those who think differently. Then I say to you: pay attention to the promise to have a number of vaccines by Christmas, because to have the vaccines, apart from ordering and paying them, you must also have the chain of cold from beginning to end. I would like it not to happen that we have not thought about the chain of cold, storage and transport for administration to hospitals or doctors. Good is Article 6 of the Decree, which provides for an additional allocation for the extension until 31 December of the Safe Roads operation for a number of units. I would be in favour of really tenfolding those units, diverting money from other purposes, from other bonuses that you have decided, because having safe roads in cities and centers goes beyond: it is a certainty and a guarantee for the Italian citizen. We are talking about collaboration, which you have offered and offered. Of course the fact of the Calabrian health commissioner does not promise well, but it does not promise well either the Zan bill, which was approved in the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the issue of open ports. As for the economy, for it is an annus horribilis: as they say, the omelette is now made and then it is worth so much. There are and there will be multi-annual consequences. In my opinion, GDP will not fall by 9% or 10.5%, but at least by 15%, because these last two months of the year, especially for the Christmas campaign, will be a decadence and a reduction. 1.30 p.m. (Perosino followed). We will have to adopt important choices in Parliament and we will do so here. Other deviations will never be enough; other than reducing taxes with tax reform; we need to finance the integration fund, which costs 5 billion a month, but we need to be aware of other choices. The debt will increase, Europe will put terrible conditionality on the SURE, of which we do not know the conditions, the ESM and the recovery fund which, according to the documents I have read in Italian, in my opinion does not yet exist or is different from how it is painted. Then we'll have to start again. I'm closing, Mr. President. I am convinced, and I am not a minagram, that we are in a war situation, as one of the government's representatives has said, and that we need special laws, with other derogations and simplifications that must be announced, debated and decided here, certainly listening to the voice of all those who sit in this House, and therefore also oppositions. We are aware, dear representatives of the Government, colleagues, that nothing will be the same as before: they will change people and their psychology and change the economy. We take note of this and maybe we will be really useful to Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u43	Senator Pittoni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u44	Mr President, with regard to the issues of concern to the 7th Commission, in which I am Vice President, the decree for our examination extends until 31 January 2021 the effectiveness of containment measures, such as the possibility of suspending the educational activities of schools of all order and grade. Medesima extension is provided for the obligation to always have breathing protection devices, with the possibility of providing obligatory use in indoor places other than private homes, therefore in schools, as well as outdoors. Children under the age of six and persons with pathologies or disabilities incompatible with the use of the mask, as well as those who, in order to interact with them, become incompatible, remain excluded from this obligation. What really puzzles me - and I think it is not just about me - is the approximation with which the government team, starting with the Minister of Education Azzolina, faces delicate points of the most serious crisis of the last seventy years. As a League we were already active in March to provide our contribution, with normative proposals that, when the lessons were resumed, would guarantee the teachers and the necessary spaces to prevent the school from becoming a multiplier of the contagion. No use: listening has been and continues to be zero, without a glimpse of a minimum of capacity, coherence and, above all, common sense in the Minister's choices. Azzolina, evidently after a look at the polls, now tries to present herself as a paladin of teaching in presence, but, in fact, Italy is the country that so far in Europe has kept the schools closed longer. And we are also those who, due to the inadequacy of the Minister of Education, have involved the holder of the Department of Transport, by his own admission, with three months late, with the result of contributing to the worsening of the pandemic crisis and, therefore, to the return to the emergency didactics, that we are not even concerned to strengthen to get it at least to everyone, preferring to waste resources in the purchase of useless wheelchairs. In time we had explained to the Minister how important it was to intervene on staff. By decree immediately enforceable we could have activated our maxi plan of stabilization of teachers, for titles and services, in order to dispose in good time of the necessary staff for the regular start of the new school year. Disconcerted to hear Minister Azzolina speak, instead, of hiring teachers, for titles and services, in a way that is not respectful of the Constitution. I remember, in fact, that the competition for titles only, known as a double channel, was born in 1989, with Law No 417, at the proposal of the President of the Council of Ministers and of Sergio Mattarella, then Minister of Education. The measure was adopted in relation to the need to cover vacancies with role-playing staff as soon as possible so as to ensure the smooth running of the 1989-1990 school year. Ignoring this plan is at the root of the current difficulty in finding teaching staff. Since the beginning of his mandate, the Minister of Education has been working to impose competitions for which there are no technical times and which favour knowledge (to simplify, memory) on competence (experience), contrary to the commitment of a transitional phase to overcome the chronic precariousness of teachers, confirming a real war undertaken by Azzolina against historical precariousness. [[Applause]] In fact, a comparison without adequate corrective measures between fresh young people and former young experts does not respect the equal rights of citizens. It is essential to overcome this attitude: when the occasion of the current school year is lost, we must now look to 2021-2022, when the same mechanism can be proposed again. We have developed a legislative proposal free of charge for public finance, intended as far as possible to soften, after the reversal of the scores by the usual Minister, the new provincial rankings for the conferral of supplements, currently aggravated, for the impossible times imposed by the Ministry, by a quantity of errors, material and not, that compromise its legal soundness. Since these rankings will also be used for permanent recruitment, it is appropriate, in order to avoid complex and exhausting disputes, to make them more adherent to subjective legal situations, in accordance with the constitutional dictate on the necessary good performance of the public administration. After the suspension of the extraordinary competition for teachers, who in the current situation should never have started, and now also burdened by doubts about possible irregularities that we have taken care to report to the Public Prosecutor's Office, there are no time for other competitive tests. The recruitments for titles and services become, that is, an obligatory path also for next year, if you do not intend to start without teachers also in the year 2021-2022. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u45	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I think we should talk about when discussing the pandemic that has been in our discussions for so long should be the enormous suffering that it is producing in our country and throughout the world. To date we have 28,000 hospitalized in the Covid wards in Italy, 3,000 people in intensive care in very precarious health conditions and 600,000 positive (560,000 of them in home isolation). The countrymen are 42,000 dead. There are 51 million infected worldwide, while almost 2 million people are dead. This drama, for the time span that is affecting and for the substantially global diffusion that it is having, is probably among the most serious that our country, Europe and the world are living since the end of the last world war. We must be aware of this, because a drama of this kind requires above all seriousness: it demands it from all and above all from those who represent the people in the institutions. And seriousness is also made of renouncing unnecessary polemics and free attacks. We have 164 people per 10,000 inhabitants; the United Kingdom has 188, France 274, Spain 311, Portugal 180, Austria 188 and Switzerland 281: they are all countries that have a worse situation than ours. Most of these have been well-deserved in decades to build up the reputation of states with great administrative efficiency, with very disciplined populations and with a great ability to cope adequately with emergencies. Yet, from the point of view of the key parameter of the infected every 10,000 inhabitants and also from other points of view, they are in a situation worse than ours. The figures that impress me most from this point of view are those of Northern European countries, such as Belgium, Holland, Switzerland and Austria. And we should be aware when we discuss this subject, also to measure the tones, because sometimes it would be better a subtone statement than an above-the-line one, and it would be better the confidentiality of speech and pompousness. Just now I read that in Germany, from the point of view of the number of infected every 10,000 inhabitants is in a better situation than in Italy (it has less than half), there are 300,000 pupils and 30,000 teachers in quarantine. I was particularly impressed by this information, because I have placed it in the background of some things I have heard in today's debate, which have appeared somewhat ridiculous to me in the face of a given like this. The government and the majority are said not to have a plan. I believe that we can and should say in Parliament that we do not share the plan of the majority and the government, but not that there is no plan. We have since the beginning adopted a criterion based on the utmost caution in the management of the emergency. And we said that all the necessary restrictions should be adopted. At the same time, we have tried to allocate the necessary sums to alleviate the economic suffering of the people and companies affected by the emergency, and we have done so on several occasions. Parliament is discussing in the Commissions of the Order of Restoration; the decree will arrive bis restori; some news has also been given by Senator Croatti about the fact that fortunately - it must be a reason not of boasting, but of common satisfaction - the payments were very quick, in line with the promises that the Government had made and with the commitments that it had made at the time of the approval in the Council of Ministers of the provision and its publication in the Official Journal. I think caution is necessary. Above all, we have decided to always take into consideration what the Scientific and Technical Committee told us. I do not know whether the things I read in the last hours about the agencies in Sardinia are true or not, but I do not think a proper style of government is what ignores what the technical-scientific committee of its Region says is extremely necessary. And it doesn't seem very wise to decide to do exactly the opposite. The news that comes from Sardinia is really worrying. I hope that the people concerned will have elements to say that they have not behaved in a certain way and that the news has no basis. If they were founded, it would be very serious news that President Solinas would be called upon to answer in an extremely serious way. I think it would be right to abandon the controversy, which is very unwise from my point of view, about the wasted summer. It does not seem to me a controversy that can take us very far, especially because the situation is everywhere what I have told you. During this summer we tried to do everything possible to improve our ability to resist the pandemic in different ways. Perhaps it is not enough what has been done, but it has not been a wasted summer, of passivity, of indifference, of inattention. It is not inattentive to increase staff in health care by 36,000 units. It is not inattentive to allocate hundreds of millions that have allowed construction sites in 12,000 schools and 40,000 new classrooms at the start of the school year. It is not inattentive to have doubled the places of intensive care in our country. Think of what situation we would be in today if the doubling of the ICU posts in the past few months had not taken place. I don't think it was a wasted summer when we were able to substantially increase the screening capacity: we were a country where 26,000 swabs were processed per day in March, while today we are able to make 230,000. I am not saying that there is nothing left to do and that it is okay; on the contrary, we are all full of limits and we are insufficient in relation to the duties of the moment. I do not think, however, that, in an honest discussion, we should distort the reality and say that behind us we have months of idleness, indifference and inactivity of the governing bodies. [[Applause]] Because it doesn't make sense and because - I assure you - it doesn't happen in any other European country, which is in similar or worse conditions than ours. In France, the last emergency measure was approved by the National Assembly virtually unanimously. I invite you to read the newspapers of European countries, some of which are every day on the tables of the Senate. In no other country is there a controversy of the level of the Italian one. This morning, we heard an invitation from the government to go home and make accusations of inability. They are all polemics that lie in the same qualitative range as the European Parliamentarian Donato's statement on vaccines: a qualitative range of intellectual misery. [[Applause]] I believe that we should not go down this level and we should, on the contrary, make systemic considerations about how we can strengthen loyal cooperation between institutions. I think that a debate on the constitutionalisation of the State-Regions Conference and, at the same time, the introduction of a supremacy clause into our system is inevitable, to be done unitedly. Speaking of institutional arrangements means understanding how we can make better use of Parliament's centrality and its prerogatives in a declared state of emergency, knowing that in order to do so we must equip ourselves with appropriate ad hoc instruments, the result of a broad sharing. The expressions of political goodwill are useful, even necessary, and certainly allow us to work better, but they are not enough to give Parliament the protagonism that, in a condition such as the present, is certainly necessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u47	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, in discussing bill No. 1970, for the conversion of Decree-Law No. 125, containing urgent measures related to the extension of the declaration of the state of epidemiological emergency by Covid-19, I cannot as Senator of the Republic, who cares about the Constitution and believes in united Italy, do not begin my speech by talking about the weaker territory of our nation, which is the one most at risk today in the face of the emergency Covid. I am referring to Calabria, a region that seems to be an orphan of a state, the daughter of no one, at the heart of the national scandal of the failure of the management of health by the Government through its commissioner. Colleagues, what has emerged in these days is the irrefutable proof that there are Italy and Calabria, the Italians and the Calabrians, and that those who are defined in Italy the rights in Calabria become concessions. It was on June 5, 2018, over two years ago, when I spoke in this House to bring to the attention of the Government what was serious happening in Calabria with the Commissariat. I asked to clear the public debt and put an end to a 12-year police station. I had denounced the Commissioner's inefficiencies; the lack of health personnel; poor lifts in hospitals that forced health managers to close down; the lack of care because of broken hospitals and, again, the number of beds reduced year after year. After a few months I organized in Piazza Montecitorio for these reasons, to ask for the end of the commissioning, for the first time in the history of our Region, Calabria, the first demonstration for the right to health. 500 Calabrians participated to ask the Government to be heard and the Government responded by renewing the commissionership with the so-called Calabria decree, which today proved more than bankrupt in the management of the emergency that we had then, creating with Cotticelli an emergency in the emergency. You didn't want to listen to us two years ago, and then we started working bringing our proposals here. On September 14, 2018, again two years ago, I had asked to strengthen the system of first aid, territorial medicine and general medicine and today, after two years, you finally thought of establishing the special units of welfare continuity (USCA). However, representatives of the Government do not work: doctors and health workers are still missing, whose absence in Italy, in Calabria and in all the regions, complained two years ago. Today, with the worsening of the situation and with Covid-19, we have 400,000 people at home who are not assisted, who have no one who can go to give him intramuscle injections of cortisone or simply an IV, since many of them are elderly and can no longer even feed. On 14 May 2019, more than a year ago, we tabled a series of amendments to the so-called Calabria Decree to improve the care, calling for increased health benefits by way of budget, establishing hospital care facilities in private facilities and increasing the number of doctors. None of this: you answered zero, nothing. Today, after two years, you are inserting these measures into your decree-law, which is now under way. Now, however, after what I have been saying for more than two years is before everyone's eyes, namely that the dust of the failure of the commissioners that the State had hidden under the carpet comes out of all sides, I could claim reason and tell the government that it has wasted time not to follow what I said, not to apply in good time what is necessary not to fall into emergency. I'll add that you can say why you did it. Colleagues, after the television scandal and the statements of Cotticelli, the picture is now clearer: you must assume your responsibilities as a government, because the commissioner is appointed by the government. How could you not know about the emergency that occurred ten days ago? You have reconfirmed that Commissioner, who was then forced to replace him for his statements and for the failure of the Covid plan in Calabria. This is the situation in which today the citizens of a part of our country live. Think that Cotticelli had asked the Minister in May to know who was to make the plan Covid and the Ministry of Health responded on October 27, a few days ago. And they don't say it's okay, because it's very serious. Today we have closed all the departments - my colleague - to give space to Covid's patients and we cannot cure those who are ill. And it is not the fault of the Calabrians, because for twelve years there have been the commissioners put by the government. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u49	Senator Santangelo! SICLARI (FIBP-UDC). Come for a ride with us to our hospitals. In fact, come to us to cure, I'll take you. Let's see when he can find a place in our wards. The state has a moral obligation to compensate those families.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u50	[[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u51	Senator, listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u52	SICLARI (FIBP-UDC). They haven't received assistance in 12 years. The state has to compensate the families. Today you have decreed the red zone, because the 20 indicators that allow us to understand the effectiveness of the regional health service are missing. But they are lacking because the structures are lacking; they are missing because in the last twelve years no one has thought to strengthen the territorial activity of health care and that of general medicine, first aid and hospitals. Today you have decreed Calabria as a red zone and the entrepreneurs, the workers and the families are paying the price. This is the result of a police station that needs to be stopped immediately, resetting the debt. Coming to us, I'm sorry I raised my voice, partner, but I'm a doctor and I know what's going on in Calabria. [[Applause]] I'll continue reading. For the sake of the state and for the respect towards the Italians you must note that we have failed, that this country has failed, because today publicly certified, with your delay in integrating the provisions in the decree-law, that could be done more. I conclude by saying that, if we had activated the ESM in May, having accepted all the proposals we had tabled with the amendments, we would not have had the current situation today and Calabria would not have been in certain conditions. There will be 19 mayors protesting in Rome in front of Palazzo Chigi. I hope that you of the majority and of the government will be next to the mayors of Calabria who, regardless of their political color, will all be together. Try to be present to the government too. Put an end to the police station and clear the debt, because it is not possible that there is still no neonatal surgery in Calabria today: the only Region in Europe! It also exists in Africa and Calabria is not there. The children must take the plane of the Air Force to go outside the Region to cure themselves when they risk dying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u53	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time is certainly difficult and the agricultural world is also affected. I have read the part of this measure on agriculture and I must say that I do not see a great deal of effort on the part of the majority to deal with the serious, very serious crisis in the agricultural sector. Those few, very few aid that is given as a cut in the contributory sector are a slight panacea to try to give a very small refreshment, but the problem of the agricultural sector is very important. Farmers are in serious difficulty. The entire Horeca channel is still (the large and small distribution, bars and restaurants); there is no consumption of our products. We in the Lega Group in the Committee on Agriculture, also at the invitation of the majority - I have heard the speeches made earlier - are trying to cooperate. We have given many ideas to Mr Bellanova, but we have seen that, in the face of so many ideas, there have been no answers. Therefore, if the request for cooperation serves to find justifications to be given to the news and television discussions, it may be good for the majority, but it is clear that citizens, especially farmers and the whole world of distribution, are not happy when the answers are zero. [[Applause]] So you absolutely can't go on. We had a lot of ideas. I can think of that sentence of Gigi Proietti when he said, If you are born poor you may be rich; but if you are born without ideas, stay like this. [[Applause]] And it seems to me that this Government is like this: it is a government born without ideas, but it is even worse the fact that then ideas, when we give them, are not heard at all. There are two major problems in the world of agriculture, with which we do - to use a football term - melina, that is, we do not want to intervene, despite the fact that the League has been repeating for two years that the situation is serious. The first is the problem of climate change. We must place resources on the hydrogeological sector, because drought is advancing and water bomb problems are increasing. [[Applause]] If we do not invest in this sector, we will have more and more problems, but we must do so immediately and not always intervene in emergency. Every time something happens, you go on TV shows to cry and say that you have to help the affected people. It is right to help the affected populations - of course - but it is much smarter to prevent by doing the works and the works are already beautiful that planned, because there are over five billion euros of executive projects that the Regions, through the ANBI, have brought to the table of Minister Bellanova. [[Applause]] In the face of these five billion executive projects, not one has been funded to date. I say this here to this House: do not weep yet - I hope nothing happens from here to the end of the year in this country - because you will certainly not be able to say that we did not tell you. [[Applause]] Another major problem that is right to remember is that of wild boars, wild animals in agriculture, and not so much because of the damage they cause - and there are so many, especially in the hilly areas and not only in the North, but also on the Apennines up to Sicily, and they are devastating the crops of Italian farmers - as for the problem of swine fever. Porcine fever has arrived from Hungary to Germany. What are we waiting for to deal with the problem of wild boars in our country? We all hope that swine fever does not arrive in Italy but, if it arrives, what do we do? Our pig meat export sector, with swine fever, is completely blocked, and at that point who goes to tell the farmers that we had thought about it? The other day, Minister Bellanova, answering a question to the House, said that we must address this problem. However, before replying, the Minister should perhaps have spoken to the Environment Minister, Mr Costa, who absolutely does not want to solve the problem. [[Applause]] I believe that this Government must make a strong reflection and make peace with itself before criticizing the opposition. The opposition, especially the League, has given many ideas. But if you do not listen to them, we do not come out of this impasse at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator D'Angelo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are debating in this House the conversion of a decree-law approved by the Council of Ministers more than a month ago, which contains certain measures to combat the pandemic which have certainly been overcome by the events and the new restrictions which unfortunately have been necessary to adopt. The decree, however, contains above all that legislative framework which, together with the declaration of the state of emergency, is necessary for the adoption of many rapid and immediate measures downstream, as are the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. The decree contains, in particular, a provision that has become increasingly important with the passing of days and with the growth, unfortunately, of the contagion in our country. In fact, in article 1, paragraph 2, it is expected that the Regions can introduce measures extending to those arranged by the Government, but only in cases and in compliance with the criteria provided for in the aforementioned decrees and in agreement with the Ministry of Health. In fact, already at the beginning of October it was thought correctly that, in a phase of recurrence of infection with Covid-19, it was appropriate to avoid that the Regions could adopt measures less restrictive than the national ones, just because we know, unfortunately, in recent months, the action in scattered order by some Presidents of the Region has caused negative consequences, I would say really very critical. It is a few hours ago - for example - the transmission of a television survey that tells how the Sardinia region decided to keep the nightclubs and discotheques open until August, despite the government's address was to keep them closed, given the impossibility to guarantee the distance necessary to prevent outbreaks. And the even more serious aspect revealed in that transmission is that this happened precisely to indulge pressure made by those in that business had interest. We have heard that the judiciary has intervened, which will, however, shed light on the whole matter. From this dramatic testimony we understand how no one can afford to commit lightness at this stage. Uncertainty can cost so much, too much. We must act on the basis of scientific data, and not on mere factual assessments. Also in the last DCCM it is expected that the Regions in red or orange zone can, only in agreement with the Minister, ask to loosen the restrictions in some areas with better epidemiological data. The regionalisation of health has demonstrated all its limitations and, when this emergency is over, it is obvious that it will have to be rethought: it will have to be seriously rethought. [[Applause]] It is not possible that constitutionally guaranteed rights are offered in a totally different way from North to South; moreover, among the same Regions of the North we have seen abyssal management differences. The management of the epidemiological emergency has been the Head of the current Title V of the Constitution and I say it with great regret, because for twenty years now we have felt pompous demands on administrative, legislative and even fiscal autonomy, on the territorial specificities to be valued, on the benefit of the neighbouring government. On the contrary, we have witnessed the escalation of inequalities, the proliferation of different models in the same country, in some regions full of public structures for the benefit of private ones. Finally, these demands have always been conditioned by the mantra of the responsibility of the regional administrations. In fact, the difficult management of the pandemic has revealed how we are faced with a federalism of irresponsibility and convenience, the federalism of errors and instead the centralism of burdens [[Applause]] And all this happens in the presence of a Government and a President of the Council who every day take on the weight of difficult decisions. Some regions, on the other hand, run away from all responsibility and alternate demands for freedom with demands for restrictions that come from Rome. [[Comments]] That's right. We could talk about the Lombard question, but also about other regions, because of course not only Lombardy is involved. I would like to reiterate in this House the dismay that many of us have felt in the face of the reactions of some governors to the last DCCM of the Commission: we have seen absurd controversy, as if the Government's choices had as their aim to penalise the territories rather than help them. We have also seen a point of ridicule towards other Regions in a dialectic war in which - for example - In the Musumeci, the president of the Sicilian Region from which I come, has moved to analyze the data of other Regions instead of worrying about its own and to define absurd the choice of the national government to insert Sicily in the orange zone. These are really surreal statements. The President of the Region knows perfectly well the extreme vulnerability of Sicilian health and he knows well also for a long time what were the parameters established by the technical-scientific committee to which it had to adapt. Therefore, the President and his Councillor should rather have had the honesty to admit before the Sicilians the limits in the management of the health system between the first and the second phase of the health emergency, because the money allocated by the government has not been spent and the results are seen today: the places of intensive and sub-intensive care have not been increased enough; the tracking has not been increased; the number of daily swabs is still very low, just above the number of those that were carried out in April. Therefore, instead of hiding behind what could be small-scale bell towering arguments, you have to assume your responsibilities, because health competence is regional. Let's remember that. The funding from the state, therefore, there have been, but unfortunately many regions have not been able to exploit them, to spend them to the best and, therefore, to adapt the structures and organize the forces to fight the virus. I would also like to remind you here that the assessments are made on the basis of a directing booth where the same Regions are present with the Conference of Regions, and that the parameters that have been used by the Ministry to attribute the zones are known for a long time by the same Regions, which would have had the time to adapt. We live dramatic days, in which so many people lose their lives; hospitals handle sometimes unsustainable pressure. So, we really need to put aside the controversy. We need a common front between the Government, Parliament and the Regions, and in this sense, the decree-law under consideration, as well as those adopted previously and those that will come, are precisely instruments that allow for institutional cooperation between the parties. At this moment, the only enemy to defeat is the virus; there must be no other enemies. The only common objective we must set ourselves is to protect the health of our citizens. All together, therefore, we must move forward in order to achieve this objective. I am sure that even this time the Italians will be able to react and face this further test. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u57	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures that the Government has taken in recent weeks are difficult to decipher even for the greatest mathematical genes able to read algorithms more difficult even those that the Higher Institute of Health gives us every week to understand what color is one region or the other. We are aware that we are at a time when we need all the necessary health precautions, but we realize that what has long been lacking in this Government is the assumption of responsibility; the same that doctors, nurses, health workers, families, school staff, businesses and traders have been employed since the beginning of the pandemic; a contagious discomfort - I would call it for the future - that changes the climate in families, communities and the whole of society. Today people have lost confidence both in the measures taken and especially in those who dictate them. Not only has the impact of communication on the psychosocial climate and the role of institutions in promoting cooperation with authority and reliability been neglected since the beginning of the pandemic, but also the widespread discomfort remains unanswered. The levels of anger, the appearance of forms of rebellion and disintegration of the social fabric that are emerging are dictated by the fact that in all there is the awareness that there have been lost months. And I'm sorry Senator Parrini isn't here right now, which said it's pointless to say that they've been lost months. No. The report issued by the Health Commission, during the hearing of the President of the Gimbe Foundation - a very authoritative health foundation - showed that the management booth, from 20 July to 30 August, stopped sending weekly reports on the virus epidemic. Senator D'Angelo, perhaps, if in Sardinia every week there had been a monitoring of the government's directing booth and it had been seen that the children brought contagion to the family to the elderly, perhaps - I repeat, with a weekly monitoring - certain decisions would have been made. However, the lack of the report from 20 July to 30 August, which is resumed from 31 August to 6 September, is a reality; it is an impossible thing to deny and it is the Government's fault, because it seems to me that the directing booth is under the control of the Government. We witnessed the attempt to empty the sea of the crisis with the teaspoon of bonuses - bankruptcy - with buffer measures that were late to arrive and with the decree-law simplifications. He's put himself back on the road code or to arm the 007s that are due and to authorize the bikes to go against the hand. Of course, in mid-May the government invested important resources to transform the beds of intensive care, put up to the best in the emergency, settings with safety standards and necessary technological instruments. We are in November and the yards are not yet open all over Italy. The regions and Commissioner Arcuri have taken up their responsibilities. We have a supercommissary with superpowers, but it seems to me that he started the tenders in early October. What are we talking about? Taking responsibility? Work will take a long time before providing 3,443 beds of intensive care and 4,213 of subintense. However, there is another problem: at least 3,000 anaesthetists and trained personnel are missing and perhaps in five months staff training could also be provided. The problem is that the contagion curve does not wait for races and bureaucracy. Just do the math in this country to figure it out, and then we'll get in the way -- as always -- even the prosecutors. We are in addition to the 20th Decree-Law, which is to be added to the previous and subsequent DPCM decrees, and we are also in addition to the failure to issue at least 70 percent of the implementing decrees, since, out of 252 planned measures, only 71 of them have been adopted. And it's about responsibility. I believe that clarity would be needed on the part of the Commission, which still fails to provide a certainty in the statistics of the infected who are spread daily, and a higher level of readability of the infected on the positives; moreover, the level of positivity would be essential to define the degree of real risk of the population. We are not talking about the thousands of Italians who are housed, sick and not considered by territorial assistance. Let us not consider the fact that there are Covid patients who do not have the opportunity to stay at home and it seems to me that it would be responsible, since hotels have been used for immigrants, maybe take others to accommodate the asymptomatic positives. Let's not talk about the thousands of jobs, let's not talk about the thousands of no-Covid patients that have been forgotten. That's what all the associations tell us. It frightens the attitude of those who believe, with embarrassing blindness, that the responsibility is always of someone else and not of the Government. In any case, in conclusion, I would like to make an appeal: probably the vaccine will come. Now, in order not to arrive at the emergency as happened with the masks, when we gave them to China and then they were missing from us, we still do not know how they will be able to pack vaccines. But do we know if they have to be inoculated? Do we have needles? Do we have syringes? Let's think about it. Above all, vaccines should be kept in a refrigerator at less than 80 degrees. Now, with all the corporate crises we have - Indesit, Zanussi, Whirlpool - the government makes an appeal and empowers the country to produce refrigerators. We would solve economic and labour crisis because refrigerators to contain vaccines will be used not only by Italy but all over the world. So let's try, for once, to make it quick, but soon it's a word that maybe this government doesn't know. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u60	Mr. President, we're at war. We're fighting to save Italy. This is no time for controversy. Now you have to work, and then the wrong guy gets kicked in the... Colleagues, excuse me if for the time being I am forced to lower the level of the debate, but what I have mentioned are words that have escaped Deputy Minister Sileri during a television show and, in some ways, are commendable words for frankness, a frankness that I would also like to have the Premier and perhaps some qualified representatives of the majority. I would also like everyone, inspired by that frankness, to start answering the following question: who was wrong? It is clear, in fact, that someone has made a mistake. Is it clear to everyone that, in order to keep a government of convenience, you preferred to endanger the future of the country? How come, while you were discussing benches or scooters, no one wondered if it made sense for the Italians to pay the advance tax on the 2021 income? What if it makes sense to charge VAT on never paid bills? If it makes sense to demand Tari from those who did not produce waste because its activity was closed or overturning the costs of the safety devices on the operators and then shut them down? [[Applause]] Colleagues, in recent days I have met a girl who worked in a clothing shop; she is still waiting for the May integration fund and, in the meantime, in September she closed the shop. You can imagine how he feels, too, because he will not be able to receive any unemployment benefits. Do you know why? He had the bad habit of working hard and doing it as prescribed by the law by paying taxes, and on Sundays he did not go to the park but offered advice by issuing regular invoice. You know what that girl asked me? Not subsidies, not scooters, but what his sacrifices were for. He asked me how the money he spent on the treasury over the years was spent. Do you answer from the government? What's that for? To pay for the wheelchairs? Ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that we are at war then we must fight and win. Wars are won with the right strategy, the right weapons and the best generals (and here every reference to the Calabria case is random). ( [[Applause]] ). Perhaps some inadequate ones are mainly in the ranks of the Government and here too, as happened in Calabria, it is time for the letters of dismissal to start dishonorably. ( [[Applause]] ). Go home those who asked the Italians to spy on the neighbors, at home those who humiliated professors and students, at home those who designed the bicycle on the Strait, while commuters were infected on the buses, at home those who promised the bazooka and extracted the water gun. Let's say enough for the extensions because emergencies must not be pursued but governed. Enough with the armored DPCMs! Italy needs a serious government. Let us then use our Constitution and use the weapons that guarantee the respect and freedom of all. Colleagues, undersecretary Sileri is right: we are at war, but if it is true that we must all fight then let's do it, but without excluding from the decisions the minority of Parliament, which you have done so far. The minority in Parliament is a majority in the country. We must not ignore the requests of the local administrators; we cannot do this, that is where undersecretary Sileri is wrong still using inadequate people: the epidemic does not authorize it, the economic crisis does not allow it, Italy does not deserve it. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u61	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here among a few friends to work by mutual agreement on the decorum of the institution, simply a reference to this. Colleagues, in many speeches by my colleagues of majority I have listened to the usual manfrina: we all go by common accord, we will do the accounts in the end. There is, however, a detail, my colleague, I feel very well represented by the Government today and therefore I am very happy to speak with my colleague: and the redde rationem is today, not next spring. The data are exploding in our hands today and it is today what happens in all the hospital structures of the country and not only in the North, as happened in March. Today we have an emerging situation from the point of view of economic activities, commercial activities and the sustainability of the family economy. Today we have the knots in the comb and we cannot postpone them until later. And this blessed confrontation, which you continue to urge for the benefit of the camera, you must decide once and for all to translate it into institutions. If you make refreshment 1, refreshment 2 and now announce refreshment 3, you realize that the call to collaboration and to work together is a pure exercise of fantasy, indeed, worse, is a provocation; and it comes from many colleagues taken as such. Let's get to the point. Colleagues, in the last speech I made in the presence of Professor Conte I asked for a figure and I said that, at the end of this emergency, Italy will have about 200 billion euros more than public debt. We will have added to our boulder, to that backpack that every Italian carries on his shoulders, another 200 billion euros, 100 of which we have authorized them with the last deviation. Yesterday Minister D'Incà - who is not there today, but we do not feel his absence - anticipated that we are ready - indeed you are ready - to another deviation. Observers certainly give an additional public debt of EUR 200 billion. I also remember that Italy has been in primary surplus for over twenty years, without any continuity. Primary advance, as you all know, means that we tax more than what we erode; the Italian State taxes and cashes more than it spends on both investment and current expenditure. Now, only the last DCCM will bring estimated GDP damage of €35-40 billion, another two points about GDP. Well, of course all this is justified by the emergency; of course you will tell me that it takes money to refresh (this horrible term that you have invented). The account of the General Accounting of the State at the Bank of Italy, colleagues, at 30 September had a balance of 75.4 billion euros, that is 60 billion more than in 2019, when the emergency was not there. I repeat: 75.4 billion at 30 September. As of 30 August, the balance of the General Account of the State with the Bank of Italy amounted to 98 billion euros. At 31 October, the balance of that account amounted to 68 billion euros, compared to 23 billion in 2019. What's going on? In my life, before I was a political representative, I was a banker. If a client came to the bank and asked for a loan, after the loan had been paid (at most within a few days or months), he used that money and spent it for the occurrence for which he had requested the loan. Now, I am aware of the perhaps overly simplistic example, but the fact that you have to foresee the implementing regulations of the laws you have made is pedestal and banal. If you do not align the coffin with the competence, which is what we ask the mayor of a municipality of 5,000 inhabitants, when will the citizens receive the resources they expect to arrive at the end of the month? When will they receive the integration fund and the provision of resources for closed or suppressed activities, which you promised? The famous bazooka is there. It's not that you don't have the money; you have it, it's there and you have to spend it. It's trivial, but it is. You have it in your account with the Bank of Italy of the State Accounting. It is absurd that they refer to the inability to use the common sense of good governance. Who's asking for these things? When citizens approach INPS branches to ask for information about the Integration Fund and the measures that the Government has promised, or ask banks for the famous funding, they are told that the Government does not allocate resources. The INPS counters are told that the government does not send the resources. If you want, I'll give you proof of that, no problem. It is clear that at this moment we need that injection of liquidity without which this country not only does not leave, but does not even try. As for health, we have said a thousand times that there is a very widespread inappropriateness, which we have faced in the Commission and we see every day. Despite the time we still have available, we have not provided the regions, associations, doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice with a protocol defining times and ways to treat this pandemic. I don't say a national pandemic plan, which would mean asking a 500 to do the 24 hours of Le Mans (we don't even ask you anymore a national pandemic plan, which is ABC), but at least make guidelines and give general medical doctors instructions. What is the treatment to be administered at home? How do they activate the continuity of care, of which we continue to fill our mouths to the right and left? What can they invent, if not, as we said this morning, to pray? There are no protocols and conventions with general medical doctors and pharmacists to do rapid tests. I am referring to the famous rapid swabs that, in a quarter of an hour, tell you whether you are positive or negative and have 98 percent sensitivity and ability to respond. In the case of positivity, we can also double them with the traditional buffer. Citizens are terrified of the idea of having Covid, because they have to go to work and, when they come home, have elderly family members. We need to unlock this situation. 500,000 or 600,000 swabs must be made a day and we can only do so by making agreements with general medical doctors, pharmacists, districts, etc. Colleagues, we are today - not tomorrow - at the redde rationem. The emergency is time dependent, as we said, and so it must be addressed today. We are already very late. I make one last example of trivial common sense. We said that the problem was not the opening of the school, but transport. We therefore encourage personal transport and our own car. Very good: all the biggest cities still have the ZTL. In March the ZTL of Rome was open; why is it closed today? How does the person take his own car if the ZTL is closed? Why don't we give the municipalities a bit of refreshment, as you call it, to remove the blue stripes for a fee? How does a citizen get a personal car if he doesn't know where to park? In this emergency there is not a government, but a common sense, a mayor of Italy. [[Applause]] You are not able to guarantee even a minimum of good administrative governance. Colleagues, we will speak repeatedly in this House to point out to you an innumerable series of circumstances and things. I call on my colleagues in the majority, if they feel it, to make these demands their own because they are trivial and have no political value or color. I believe that all together we will probably be able to achieve something from a government that is absent from the benches and from the lives of citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u63	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, I want to start with the initial appeal of Senator Valente, taken up by Mr Parrini, whom Senator Zaffini has just defined - I am telling you with the sympathy and esteem I have for him - the usual manfrina, which I do not actually consider to be. The call to unity, Senator Zaffini, is not the inattention to what is happening or the idea that the pandemic can see a delayed emergency management. It is clear that redde rationem is today and that here we have to confront ourselves on the things to do; what is different is the exhausting and daily controversy. I say this because Mr Parrini quoted the data from all the European countries, from which we can see not only that the pandemic is everywhere (or else it would not be called "pandemic"), but in almost all Europe even in more serious numbers than in Italy (if we probably remove only Germany) and in many countries of the world. There too there is the need to deal, in the immediate and the best, with the management of this emergency, but unlike us there is no continuous, everyday controversy. I say this with a sense of frustration for what we cannot represent as a country. We are a great country, but at the same time we manage to be very small in our daily begas and our debate can really appear at a very low level. I also say this with a bit of irony, perhaps you will have heard the manfrina of the call to unity, today I have heard in the speeches of many colleagues the usual manfrina I have listened to for months, that is the polemic on the wheelchairs and the scooter, when frankly I believe that we should discuss things much more important and serious. I would like to make a more general reflection, since then the debate, more than punctually on the decree, has focused on the management of the emergency in a general way. The intervention on television on the other day of Vice Minister Sileri was mentioned earlier, which I greatly appreciated, because with great frankness he said "we are at war" and at this moment there are no political parties, but there must be the will on the part of everyone to understand that we must save the lives of our fellow citizens and we must save the country. I really want this to be our only big party right now: Italy. However, this is often not the case, because we listen every other day to the controversy about the fact that there is not enough resources and that more is needed; about the fact that Parliament is not sufficiently involved; about the fact that we have wasted time during the summer. Then, however, going to retrace the facts, we see that who says that we wasted time during the summer is the same one that, with dramatic gestures, took off the mask to prove that in the end it was dramatizing (then if it was put back for Trump, but it didn't bring him well even in that case). We see that those who say that Parliament is little involved were those who demanded full powers for themselves. It seems that we are disconnected from reality; if an extraterrestrial came and listened to our statements he would probably not understand if the same people made, a month before and a month later, those statements. We see that those who say that there are few resources and should be put more in Europe then vote against the recovery fund. [[Applause]] Of the two: the proposals, ladies and gentlemen, are proposed. Colleagues, we ask you to make proposals, not just criticisms. If they are proposals, it is not enough to say'more resources'; if those coming from Europe are not good, tell us where you want to find them and tell us what you want to do. Senator Pillon today said that we want to kill the autonomy of the Regions: here too it must be understood, because it was the Regions, especially those of the North governed by the opposition parties, who asked the Government to decide him because they did not want to assume responsibility for unpopular and difficult choices. [[Applause]] And then today it is said that there is not enough autonomy, that we had to close less: so we do not give the idea neither of being at war but neither of playing the soldiers. It seems to me that the seriousness we use in this battle of the country lies in this. I've heard of the fact that we have been ironic about the hospital of the Milan Fair. Look, I have great respect for the people of Lombardy, for the enormous difficulties they have faced for months and months for the tragedy they have faced. I think so many of us probably have no idea what Lombardy has been through these months. After that, I do not think that we can give lessons on how the emergency was managed in Lombardy; and I do not think that the hospital at the Fair, which may be used today, can give lessons on good governance of health. A health care that has been privatised too much and that has shown in this case all its shortcomings. Not to mention today's news about Sardinia. I'm gonna finish. Through Deputy Minister Misiani, I would like to offer on behalf of our Group sincere thanks to the Government, because I believe that we are well aware of the difficulty of the choices of these hours, and how difficult it is for those who assume the responsibility to choose between keeping open and safeguarding the economy or closing and safeguarding health. We must try to find a very difficult balance in order not to reach a new generalized lockdown, which we all want to avoid, but also to avoid that there are no more beds in hospitals and that there is a complicated tragedy to manage. I therefore believe that the choice to differentiate the regions, to maintain a relationship with them, to gradualize the closures and restrictions is right but I also think it is difficult, and for this reason I believe that it must come from this Assembly - I feel like saying this forcefully - a strong appreciation and also a strong support and support at a time when, for those who are in charge of the country, I think it is undoubtedly one of the most delicate in our history. Colleagues, let's try to make a qualitative leap. President Conte - someone says late, it may be - made an appeal to try to dialogue together; do not retreat and try to understand what is at stake. It is not the lucrating of some electoral consensus, "gratting the belly" to those who complain difficult choices: this is not the stage to do so. There will be a phase to do this, but today the difficult and most important phase is to save the country and I believe that no one can escape from his responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u66	Mr President, this is not the first time I have spoken in general debate or for an explanation of vote on issues relating to the Covid-19 and, above all, the issue of the relationship between the emergency measures issued by the Government or the President of the Council of Ministers and the role of Parliament. That at our examination is the eighteenth decree-law and there were, if I am not mistaken, eighteen DPCMs. You know that I, who am an enthusiast of the Constitution, have always complained that Parliament is unfortunately always late, that it does not participate in the choices and that at a time instead of a national emergency, in this case of a health but also of an economic nature, it is being put in the background. There has recently been a difference of attitude on the part of the President of the Council of Ministers, who came to the House for the first time before issuing the DPCM, and it seems that something is changing. Today I do not want to make an intervention of pure dispute or controversy because I have never been among those who can be called negationists, indeed I have always considered, dear Deputy Minister, that we should not underestimate this national emergency, which then in fact is a global emergency - except today that for China incredibly, since the virus started from there - and that we all had to tighten around one need: to keep the Italian people united, to give univocious answers, in short, not to show that the Italian people were divided and quarreled at a time like this. President Berlusconi, leader of my political movement, has for months stood up and called for the unity of the country; a unity not in announced intentions, but a true unity, consecrated through acts carried out together. For our part, and also for my part, the constructive approach to a true dialogue is also mentioned today. It seems, however, that, unfortunately, many times these approaches fall into the void. At this time it seems that something is changing, but in discussing a measure such as the one that will be voted on today it is right to remember that the extension of the health emergency comes at a time when basically there was no collaborative approach by the majority and the government. As other colleagues have said, there has been an underestimation of health problems after the first wave of contagion. Many, particularly us in Forza Italia, have said that we had to access, for example, the resources absolutely necessary for the health law, namely the 37 billion euros of the ESM, which are still fundamental because they are ready and quick money, not like the funds of the recovery fund for which the investigation will be very long and it will also be difficult to access. For the ESM it is much simpler, yet the divisions within the majority have prevented access to as many as EUR 37 billion that could be fundamental. Of course, they were not lost, but they were really granted by Europe to zero interests and we said no, or at least until now we have not been able to access these funds. We see that among other things health emergencies are unfortunately receiving a very uneven response Region by Region. The story of the regions divided into orange, yellow and red areas is in fact making the message very confusing to Italian citizens. For example, my region, Abruzzo, until yesterday was a yellow zone and from now on it is an orange zone. There are therefore limitations of personal freedom and closures of commercial activities modulated differently. I'm okay with coefficients. During the first wave, we criticized the idea that the whole country was locked down, despite the pressure of the contagion being much higher in some regions of the North than in the South; Today it may be okay for there to be modulation and differentiation based on these coefficients, in particular the so-called RT index. But we're all worried about the fact that we're in a phase of major virus offensive. We are concerned that unfortunately we still do not see the dawn, that the places in intensive care are increasingly reduced and that our health system is increasingly at a difficult time. What are we gonna do? We're gonna stop talking about the rebound. Mr Moles just said that he felt like a game of tennis: we who criticize, the majority who bounce back what we say, the regions that criticize the mayors, the national government that has a confrontation with the Regions. All this institutional chaos does not reward. Let us repeat once again a proposal from Forza Italia. Mrs Bini, if I recall correctly, said: 'Make proposals'. We have done it: since May last we have deposited a bill to establish a proper forum for real and concrete dialogue, for real discussion between Parliament and the Government, between Parliament and the technical-scientific committees or, in any case, the technical bodies that cooperate with the Government. We have identified our own seat in a bicameral committee. We know that not everyone agrees with this proposal, but - as it happens - the constitutionalists who are being heard in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are all alike, up to now, saying that the only real answer that has constitutional strength and value and that really gives a voice to Parliament is the establishment of a bicameral Commission. On the other hand, according to the Constitution, there is an equal bicameralism in our country, so it is not conceivable a single-cameral Commission. I shall conclude by calling for a move from words to deeds. Forza Italia insists on having a constructive and collaborative approach. President Berlusconi is continuing to evoke and recall these days. Let's take a step forward, let's not just let the President of the Mattarella Republic tell him. Let us take all political forces, starting with the majority, one step forward, so that we can finally say that Parliament exists and is central: in a situation of national emergency such as this, perhaps for once, it will begin to give true answers and give back a little more serenity and future perspective to the Italian citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u68	Mr President, I am speaking in this general debate on a measure against which the Commission to which I belong does not have a dominant competence but only an incidental one for the reasons I will tell you soon. As you know, Mr President, I am currently engaged in the saga of the ristori decree. There was episode 1 "The Phantom Refreshment," episode 2 "The Ateco Ateco Ateco Ateco Ateco's Revenge" and now we're waiting, apparently, for episode 3 "The Ateco's Revenge." Let's move on with this way of lawmaking a little impromptu. [[Applause]] Here comes the first point, which makes the rhetoric of the cooperative throng a little crumble. I am here because a measure, a decree that extended the sending of accounts, was inserted as an amendment within a measure that dealt with anything else. For the benefit of those outside this House, I would remind you that this is a perfectly legitimate modus operandi but that it does not favour the intervention of the Commissions of merit and does not make it very easy for the opposition to read the measures. Now, in the ristori decree, we will arrive at levels of virtuosity that I cannot even imagine. It has been said that this is a war. I very much appreciate this majority, which fascinates me because it is characterized by a certain strabism: there are times when it seems that we are dealing with an epochal cataclysm, as it actually is. We are in a war, which, by the way, is atrocious, because unlike the other wars it has a strange asymmetry. I look at the statistics of the Higher Institute of Health: under fifty years there are 1.1 percent of the victims, which means that this war is erasing the historical memory of entire communities, it is erasing the generations of our parents and grandparents, and this is an extremely serious fact. But if we are immersed in such a serious situation, why then, when we go to Europe to negotiate on state aid, do we not go to eclipse the natural disaster as the state aid rules do? Today there is an interesting article on "The Truth" which challenges the Government about the modus operandi in contracting the so-called temporary framework in Europe and from there I fear that we will have sad consequences. I would therefore like to talk about resources. I made the speech about the method: it is useless to continue with this overflowing of decrees. I remember when in March, while - perhaps unintentionally - he mocked us saying that in the April decree we would have room for amendment, Minister Gualtieri said that by the April decree then he would go to the budget law. You also know that the decrees now overlap within the same week; it is clear that we are all in confusion. We talk about resources, which are divided into two types: those that are there and those that are not there. Those that are there are not spent and therefore we should ask the Government, as Mr Garavaglia did to the House, to make us a list of the implementing decrees that have not been issued and therefore of how much resources actually remain compared to those that have been announced. This is an issue, because then we are told in the Commission that we have no room to amend, but we know that, as Mr Zaffini reminded us, the money raised on the markets remains in the treasury. So let's talk about the resources that aren't there. I would like to bring to the attention of this House a rather serious episode, which apparently does not have a direct connection with this measure and perhaps does not have it, but which is indicative of the situation in which we put our country. Two days ago, Mersch, who is a representative of the Directory of the European Central Bank, said that if the Member States do not agree to borrow from the Commission, either from the Sure or from the ESM, or from the recovery fund, the European Central Bank will be able to refuse to buy their securities. By this I mean that, of course, the European Central Bank is making policy and that the European institutions are exploiting this moment, this serious pandemic, to carry forward the political project with their usual logic, that of blackmail. The way we manage the crisis we are witnessing is this, just like in another known episode when a currency without a state was created, now we want to move forward on the same path, creating a debt without a state and the debt without a state should raise questions in each of us. The question is: who manages it, how and with what criteria? No one asks this question, as nobody asks the question of what political responsibility a bureaucrat has, who wants to dictate, with the weapon of blackmail, financial policies and policies for the development and recovery of individual states, deciding which mix of resources individual States have to use to finance them. This happens, among other things, at a time when markets are extremely generous towards the Italian Treasury. The latest placements of government bonds have negative rates: literally the markets pay the Italian Treasury to lend it money. The point, then, is that this Europe that believes so much in the market prevents us from entering the market and requires us to access its loans so that we can then dictate the guidelines on how to spend them. But then, if this is the issue, if the ECB does not want to buy securities, stop doing so and if the ECB stops buying all government bonds, one second after all Europe, except Italy, will be underwater. Is this the game we want to play, or do we want to play, with a view to true solidarity and cooperation, really tackle the pandemic together? Everybody's not in here together. I'm not a government whine that doesn't listen to us. The government may not listen to us. I come so lightly to the third point, which is responsibility. It is enough that those outside know that the responsibilities of the choices of those who govern are of those who govern and not of those who, like us, oppose. [[Applause]] That's enough for us. Then we can safely do without being teased and wasting time with cooperation offers that lead nowhere. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to all the speeches: many things have been mentioned, everything has been said and the opposite of everything has been said; the usual polemics have also been made, despite the calls to lower the tones of the highest institutions. Here there are no party flags to plant, there is only one enemy and it is not us, but the virus. Of course I agree with Mr Bagnai, when he says that the government's responsibilities are of the government, but the opposition asked to set up a table: when Conte said to set it up, you turned to the other side. [[Applause]] The appeal is still there. We are faced with a global tragedy that has claimed two million deaths worldwide and 51 million infected and caused 42,330 deaths in Italy. To those dead we must respect, especially the old, to whom, being of my own age, someone said that, being unproductive, perhaps, as according to some doctrines, they had to disappear, who knows by what method. Let us also make some clarity about the numbers: the Gimbe Foundation, evoked by many, wrote that we sacrificed on the altar of fiscal austerity our ability to guarantee adequate care to the population; twenty years of cuts in public spending and ten years of strict application of the dogma of balance budget have reduced to rubble one of the pillars of the social state of our country, its health service. Under the pretext of the crisis of the accounts, under the blackmail of the public debt, from 2001 to today in Italy, Mr President, 165 hospitals have been closed, especially the peripheral ones; there are 45,000 beds less, 2,300 therapies less intensive, 7,200 doctors less, 12,000 nurses less and 150,000 less employed. Prevention and research have been reduced since 2001 and, as public hospitals closed down, new ones were opened up by the private sector. [[Applause]] Today, private health care accounts for 40% of the total and private individuals are looking for profit on the health and skin of Italians. Let me say, Mr President, that if there is a perfect example of the distortion of our health system, it is that of the major Italian region. In contrast to what is thought, in Lombardy public health expenditure corresponds to 5.4% of GDP, lower than the Italian average (€1.758 per head, compared to a national average of 1.821); consequently, this system is insufficient in 11 out of 25 indicators and more than half of the regional hospital care companies are insufficient in more than half of the indicators. Although the narrative defines it as the best health system, there are many waste, as evidenced by the cyclical investigations and even - I am sorry to say - the arrests of Governor Roberto Formigoni. In Lombardy there are 30 public and 31 private hospitals, especially in the Provinces of Milan, Bergamo and Brescia, not by chance, the most affected by the pandemic. Private health care is designed to generate profit: medical analysis, specialist visits, operating rooms and long-term needs. These are the things that create profit in the hospital: not the first aid, not the intensive care, certainly not the article of the Constitution that puts health first, not the economy, nor the profit of the private, but health. It is not surprising, therefore, Mr President, that some statements - which I would like to mention - by those who advocate the prevalence of the economy over profit, about constitutions: In the next five years, 45,000 basic doctors will be missing, but who goes to the primary doctor anymore? (...) Who is less than 50 years old goes on the Internet and looks for the specialist. The world in which the doctor was trusted is over. [[Comments.]] It is a textual statement, ladies and gentlemen, go and read on the Internet, instead of criticizing a priori, without even knowing what we are talking about. And again, another statement, speaking of Switzerland: "They are going with the Boris Johnson approach, all open, take it all, we will cure who we can and who we cannot patience but at least remove the tooth. Everyone calls them crazy, but I kind of admire them. There may have been mistakes, mistakes, but this government, while making mistakes and acting sometimes late compared to the pandemic, puts the health of the citizens first. For this reason, the decree-law that we are discussing today has been adopted: an irresponsably contested measure with the epithet "liberticide" [[Applause]] Mr President, I agree with you that we must always have respiratory protection devices with us - and that we are often called upon to wear masks correctly - and that we should make provision for them to be used in public indoor places other than private homes. The Decree-Law provides for recruitment with fixed-term employment contracts, with part-time working hours, in view of the training needs; it extends the possibility for the Regions to conclude contracts for the purchase of additional health services, in derogation from the limits of expenditure, in order to increase the provision of beds in intensive care and the operating units of pneumology and infectious diseases; it provides for the possibility of carrying out the construction works strictly necessary to make the structures suitable for the reception and assistance, by way of derogation from the laws, regional laws, regulatory plans and local building regulations. This decree-law extends the possibility for the Regions to establish the special units of care continuity for the home management of patients suffering from Covid who do not need hospitalization; it provides that the Regions, verified the impossibility to proceed to the recruitment of staff, can hold in service the medical and health managers, as well as the staff of the health role of the health sector and the social health workers, also in derogation from the limits provided by the provisions in force for the placement in quiescence. Mr President, I am going to conclude, partly because I would like to make a little bit of clarity about that little fairy tale called ESM. A true legend, which I try to make understand, with humility, not with my words, but with the latest report by Banca Generali and Saxo Bank, signed by Althea Spinozzi. Well, everyone, even the penultimate intervention of Senator Pagano, evoked the ESM, this fairy tale. What does the report say? The comparison between the health MES and the poisoned apple of Snow White is the underlying thesis and argues that the ESM is an obsolete instrument, which endangers the sovereignty of the Member States of the European Union. There is a risk of dilution and increased government refinancing costs and stigmatisation. I give you some data: according to the disserted thesis, the maximum amount of the loan that a country can require is equal to 2% of GDP and Italy, with a GDP of 1.8 trillion, could therefore ask, but only in theory, 36 billion, obtaining more tranches of 15 percent at a time. In fact, that is impossible. Italy could not ask for 36 billion funds, as it did not spend this amount to deal with the emergency Covid: so far, according to the data of the Ministry of Economy, it has allocated only 9.5 billion for the investments of the health system. In addition, health care costs amount to some 114 billion. This makes it difficult to demonstrate that 30% of the health budget is earmarked exclusively for Covid expenditure. I make a final appeal, really, always open to a war, and we are in a global war: we do the interests of this country, majority and opposition, outside the political flags. We welcome the call of the highest institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u71	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to speak in response, as has already been said, I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 15.11 a.m. and resumed at 16.37 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Budget Committee has not yet finished its work and that the sitting is therefore suspended until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.37 p.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was decided during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.7, 1.28, 1.32, 1.34, 1.0.4, 1.0.5, 1.0.6, 1.0.7, 3.0.1, 3.0.2, 3.0.3, 3.0.4, 3.0.8, the identical 3.0.9 and 3.0.10, 3.0.18, 3.0.19, 4.1, 4.0.1, 5.0.1, 5.0.4 and 5.0.5, as well as sub-amendments 1,500 (text 2/2 and 1,550/2 as they are unrelated to the object of the decree-law. On the other hand, it states that amendments 1,24, because they are not amending in scope, 1,25, only in paragraph (a) and 1,19, only in paragraph (a), as reproductive provisions already in force, as well as amendments 5.0.2 and 5.0.3 because they are in fact acting as a rule of primary rank with respect to an subordinate source. It also states that sub-amendments 1.0,1000/8 and 1.0,1000/9 are inadmissible because they are not technically formulated as sub-amendments, but as amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u73	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.6, 1.11, 1.12, 1.13 and 1300. The opinion is in favour of Amendments Nos 1.14 (text 2) and 1,15, while it is against 1,17. I am in favour of Amendment No 1,900 and against Amendment No 1,301. The opinion is still in favour of amendments 1.25 (text 2) and 1.19, against 1.20 and 1.21. I am also in favour of Amendment 1,22 (text 2) and against Amendment 1,302.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u74	Forgive me, rapporteur, but how can you give a favourable opinion on 1.22 (text 2) and against 1.302 as they are identical? The first is from the Commission, the second from Senator Augussori and others. Amendment 1.302 (already 3.0.12) is identical to 1.22 (text 2) of the Commission. They're identical! Perhaps because in one text it is written "replaced" with the following "and in another "by the following "by"? It's still the same thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u75	Mr President, perhaps the only difference is that in amendment 1302 there is the word 'inside'.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u76	Amendment 1.22 (text 2) states that "In Article 101, paragraph 2, of the Code of the Third Sector, as referred to in Legislative Decree No 117 of 3 July 2017, the words "31 October 2020' are replaced by the following: "31 March 2021'. Amendment 1,302 states: In Article 101, paragraph 2, of the Code of the third sector, referred to in Legislative Decree No 117 of 3 July 2017, the words "by 31 October 2020" are replaced by the following: "by 31 March 2021."
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u77	If amendment 1,302 is identical to 1.22 (text 2), the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u78	So, he's in favour of both of us, and we have to vote together. [[Comments]] , rapporteur. I also support Amendments Nos 1,33 (text 2), 1,29, 1,35, 1,37 (text 4), 1,500 (text 2), 1,550 and 1,502 (text 2). I am against Amendments Nos 1,200 and 1,500 (text 2/3, 1,550/1) and 1,500 (text 2/3). I am also in favour of the agendas G1.100, G1.101, G1,102, G1.103 and G1.104. As regards the additional amendments, I am against Amendments 1.0.1000/1, 1.0.1000/2, 1.0.1000/3, 1.0.1000/4, 1.0.1000/5, 1.0.1000/6 1.0.1000/7, 1.0.1, 1.0.200, 1.0.201, 1.0.202 and 1.0.203. Finally, I am in favour of amendments 1.0,1000 and 1.0,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u79	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u80	Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Riccardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Riccardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Vallardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.5 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Riccardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.7 is not possible. Amendments 1.8, 1.9 and 1.10 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u83	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in view of the contrary opinion, I shall withdraw Amendment No 1.11 because it has been turned into an agenda and has already been approved by the Commission with the support - and I thank you for that - of all the political forces and the Government, which I hope will make it a reality. From what I understand, it is not an agenda that is given to make a good impression, but because it deals with a very serious problem. It refers to mayors who are also public or private employees and who find themselves again or, better, have never stopped managing the Covid emergency. In this second wave the situation is even more serious because the mayors are also supplementing the lack of volunteers. In fact, since there is no total lockdown, so many volunteers from both civil and private protection are rightly at work. The fact, therefore, that mayors will be recognized - I hope - extra paid leave hours (up to seventy-two) will be able to help administrations that are in serious shortage of volunteering, because the activities are not all suspended and the citizens need assistance at home. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u84	We therefore move on to amendment 1.12, which is identical to amendment 1.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senators Vitali and Pagano, identical to amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,300 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.14 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.15, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,900 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.18 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment No 1,301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,301, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.25 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.19, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u87	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1.21, because it has been changed to agenda G1.102, voted unanimously by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u88	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,22 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, identical to Amendment 1,302, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.33 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.24 is inadmissible. Amendment 1.28 is unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.29, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.32 and 1.34 cannot be proposed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.35, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.37 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,500 (text 2)/1 has been withdrawn. Amendment 1,500 (text 2/2) is improbable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,500 (text 2)/3, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,500 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.550/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u91	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I only speak to justify the vote in favour of our amendment, which, in fact, is correct to recall, was a proposal tabled by the majority, by the Democratic Party, in the Commission, which we would also have shared and which was unexpectedly withdrawn. Strangely enough, once there is a common sense amendment, which we support, it suffers a sad end on the part of the proposers. Why? I would point out that we are and will be - as we will demonstrate with the vote on the next amendment tabled by the Commission, which is against the postponement of the provincial elections, because, as second-degree elections, they have a minimal impact on the increase in risk and risk exposure. If the next amendment is adopted, as is conceivable, we believe that the best solution is that the provincial elections are to take place sixty days after the next administrative round as indicated in our text. It would make little sense to vote for the provincial elections in the last days of life of the municipal administrations. It would therefore be more appropriate to wait for the outcome of the next administrative round and have a plenum that also allows the newly-entrant municipal councillors to apply, to be elected and to ensure a greater functionality of the provincial body, which already suffers from several difficulties of democratic representation, not delegate this election to those who, instead, have been elected to the municipal councils now five years ago. We therefore strongly support amendment 1,550/1 and would urge our colleagues in the Democratic Party, and in particular Senator Collina, to reflect and return to his steps. We maintain the amendment to give it the opportunity to revise its understanding, but we support it, while we will vote, however, against the next amendment, tabled by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u92	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,550/1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.550/2 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.550.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u95	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment No 1,550 is what I mentioned earlier by the Commission, which does nothing but take up and absorb the entire electoral decree of a few days ago, doing so, in fact, decaying, but bringing the whole rule here, within this measure. The various structures of the decree are transformed into successive paragraphs. Although we have expressed, in the previous speech, the opposition to the entire part relating to the elections of the Provinces, the Metropolitan Cities and, therefore, all the bodies of second level, because we believe that on 13 December they can instead go to the vote, being a second level vote, we believe that an article of the decree (converted in the first paragraph, 4-a, of the rapporteur's amendment 1,550) is instead acceptable. It is the one that refers to the dissolved administrations according to Article 143 of the single text of the laws on local government law and that also guarantees the possibility of extending the maintenance of the existing police structure. We therefore call for the separate vote on the amendment, which is explicit. We are asking first of all for the vote on the first paragraph, on 4-a, and, subsequently, for the vote on paragraphs 4-b, 4-c, 4 -quinquies and 4-e. In essence, two votes for us would be sufficient to distinguish paragraph 4-a from all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u96	In summary, you asked for the separate vote on amendment 1,550, first voting on paragraph 4-a and then all the others. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yeah, that's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The request for a separate vote shall be admissible. I therefore put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on amendment 1,550 tabled by Senator Augussori. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u99	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I regret the decision not to be able to vote for separate parts of Amendment 1.550. We believe that the paragraphs after paragraph 4-a of the amendment are predominant for us. Therefore, although we wanted to vote in favour of the first part of the amendment, we will vote against the whole text. I repeat, I regret that there has not been a gesture of readiness by the majority, which prefers to take a full vote against, rather than the opposition's vote in favour of the first part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u102	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-IEC). Mr President, I am speaking as an interpreter of the invisibles outside the Chamber, who, when there is a vote by show of hands, raise their hands but are not seen. Therefore, by convention, a counterproof should always be made in such a way that their vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u103	Retest must be required. No one asked for it, and I didn't give it, or I would have.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u104	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this is a problem that will always exist. As long as there's seats in the back, you won't be able to see who votes from there.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u105	If you had a doubt, it was enough to raise your hand and I would have granted the counterproof, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u106	There is no doubt, but the Rules of Procedure provide for everyone to be in the Chamber, while there are some who are in the closets. It's a fact. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u109	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, our Rules of Procedure provide that, in view of the uncertainty of the outcome, the vote by show of hands will also take place by electronic vote without registering names. I believe that this solution replaces the vote by a show of hands without the need, then, of counterproofs. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u110	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.550 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,502 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day from G1,100 to G1,104 will not be put to the vote. We move on to amendment 1.0.1000/1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1000/1, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1000/2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1000/2, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 1.0.1000/3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1000/3, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 1.0.1000/4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1000/4, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1000/5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1000/5, tabled by Senator Ferro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 1.0.1000/6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1000/6, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1000/7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1000/7, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.1000/8 and 1.0.1000/9 are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.2, 1.0.3 and 1.0.8 have been withdrawn. Amendments 1.0.4 to 1.0.7 are unacceptable. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.200, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.201, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.202, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.203, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.203, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.204 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur, the representative of the Government, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u111	Mr President, I am against Amendments 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 (correct text), 2.6 (correct text) and 2.8. I am in favour of amendment 2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u112	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. 18.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u113	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5 (correct text), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u116	RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment 2.5 (correct text) aims to strengthen tracking staff. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government have expressed their opposition but it is quite inconceivable, considering that there is a civil protection order of 24 October that opened the ban precisely to recover staff in order to strengthen the trackers. Among other things, part of this staff should simply enter the data. The people who will be recruited under the Civil Protection ban will be hired with collaboration contracts and therefore the funds to pay them are there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u117	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5 (correct text), tabled by Senator Riccardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.6 (correct text), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6 (correct text), tabled by Senator Riccardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.7, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u120	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 2.8 and inform the rapporteur that this amendment has been absorbed by amendment 2.7 tabled by the Commission. Therefore, it cannot vote against because the amendment is identical to that of the Commission; in order to make it easier for it to withdraw amendment 2.8, on which the Commission voted in favour because it was identical to that of the Commission. However, I would ask for more attention because each of us brings demands and gives a negative opinion on an amendment identical to that of the Commission creates misunderstandings that are not needed. I therefore withdraw Amendment 2.8 and ask that we do not vote on it, as it is virtually identical to Amendment 2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u121	It's not exactly the same. We move on to Article 3 on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u122	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3,900, 3.5, 3.0,300. I am against Amendments 3.3, 3.4, 3.0.4, 3.0.7, 3.0.21, 3.0.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u123	Mr President, the Government agrees with the rapporteur's opinion, but refers to the House on Amendment 3.0.300 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u124	Senator Pesco, I would ask you to give the opinion of the 5th Commission on Amendment 3.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u125	Mr President, the Commission's 5th opinion is in no way precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u126	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,900 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.1 and 3.2 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Pucciarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.23 has been withdrawn. Amendments 3.0.1 to 3.0.4 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.300 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u129	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on this amendment, also with reference to the opinion expressed by the Government, which has returned to the House, we are asking for a split vote, dividing the first paragraph from the next two paragraphs. This is because the next amendment 3.0.7 was signed by Senator Arrigoni and is almost identical to the first part of this amendment, which we therefore consider to be fully acceptable. I recall that the original text had been tabled by all the groups, with amendments 3.0.5 and 3.0.6 and was identical to our amendment 3.0.7 while Amendment 3.0.300 (text 2) was then extended with the addition of two other paragraphs that we do not agree with. We therefore call for the separate amendment to be voted on, so that the consensus - which I imagine to be unanimous - of the House on this point can emerge on the extension of the effects of the existing administrative acts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Augussori, you ask to vote separately on paragraph 1, which begins with: "1" and ends with the words: "2" in paragraph 2-e, from paragraphs 2 and 3, right? Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. I also believe that the first part of Amendment 3.0.300 (text 2) can be voted together with Amendment 3.0.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u130	Senator, they're not exactly identical. I think it could be considered absorbed by the possible adoption of amendment 3.0,300 (text 2). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.0.300 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, up to the words "as referred to in the same paragraph 2.';....................................................................................................................................................................................... (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of Amendment 3.0.300 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.7 is incorporated into amendment 3.0.300 (text 2). Amendments 3.0.8, 3.0.9 and 3.0.10 are unacceptable. Amendment 3.0.17 has been withdrawn. Amendments 3.0.18 and 3.0.19 are unacceptable. Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.21, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0,200 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.22, tabled by Senators Pichetto Fratin and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u131	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 4.0.100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u132	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u133	Amendments 4.1 and 4.0.1 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u136	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak personally because we have been reading everything and more about an amendment for days, which is also the subject of the opening of 'Dagospia', on this alleged exchange, to which I do not believe, on this alleged iniqucio Conte-Berlusconi-Forza Italia-majority of Government. Since I do not believe and refuse to believe in these things, and I spoke with President Berlusconi today, I would like to reiterate that Mediaset is a great Italian company that must be protected, regardless of political or party sympathies. [[Applause]] Therefore, if there is a great Italian company, as can be Telecom or another company tomorrow, which is blocked in its operation by someone who - Italian or foreign - has other aims than that of the company's functionality, on this we must intervene. I raise a problem of method: do we need to overcome legislation that has been reformed by a 15-year-old European Court ruling? Yes. Does competition and the market need to be protected in a sensitive area such as public and private information? Yes. Do you need to give certainty to the operators in the sector? Yes. Do you need to protect every small or large Italian company from possibilities of climbing or acquisitions? Yes. It is necessary to do so with an organic reform, to which the League and the entire center-right look forward to making their contribution. The amendments that arrive at 10 p.m. and arrive at the Commission at 9 a.m. are not the best way to solve this problem. [[Applause]] That is all the reasoning, without retro-thoughts. Let us think of inverted parts - I say this to the friends of the current majority, the PD and the 5 Star Movement - if such an operation had been done by a rapporteur of the League, as someone in this Senate Chamber of the Republic would have reacted. How many investigations would have started? We look at the substance, not the form. Do you want to give time to come to this reform? Good. Do you want to prevent a judgment of Italian civil justice, taking a judgment in my opinion at least questionable of the European Court, from blocking the operation of large companies such as Mediaset, Telecom or other Italian companies? Let us take this time, but a great reform is not done at night, through an amendment to a Covid decree, but it is done with transparency in this House, because Italy and the Italians need it. [[Applause]] We, therefore, have no other reasoning or retro-thinking to give confidence that this reform will come to this House. We will abstain on this measure and refuse to believe in all the reconstructions that have been done in these hours in these newspapers and on these sites, because the centre-right is a majority in the country, sooner or later it will also come back to this House and if you do not do them, the reforms, in a transparent way, we will do them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u139	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I have listened with great amazement to the reasons for the abstention brought by Senator Salvini, who - I don't know what to say - comes to speak of alleged iniqucio on a norm shared between majority and opposition, however referring to a force like the Movimento 5 Stars, which in the matter of publishing concentrations and conflicts of interest has never spared criticism, not only of the system of overall Italian communication [[Applause]] , but also to Mediaset itself and to the same leader of the center-right Silvio Berlusconi; leaders who at this moment, with little style, Senator Salvini and the League have decided to download, together with its companies, we do not understand with what motivations that are not those of a sterile policy, of an opposition that leads nowhere. Senator Salvini, you announced to this House that if we do not make the reforms we will make them; but I believe that since August last year, not only on the beaches but also in the ballot boxes, the Italians have clearly told you that they have no intention of entrusting them with full powers, nor of announcing reforms in the fields of communication, information and set-up of the radio and television market. [[Comments in the Chamber),]] of the Gasparri law. However, Senator Gasparri knows that on this point we have never agreed; it was you, in a different era of telecommunications in Italy, who launched a reform, such as that of Gasparri, which, among other things, prevented Italian TV operators, who in a free race had conquered the frequencies of Network 4, to expropriate them, perpetuating an injustice that we hope to fill as soon as possible [[Comments. Applause]] Mr President, with the rule under consideration, this majority implements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which Senator Salvini should be well aware of, by filling a regulatory vacuum which, in a sensitive and I would say vital sector such as the pluralism of information (which in recent years the League has always shown to understand very little) would have given the green light to dominant positions in the media and telecommunications sector. This judgment states that Italy does not have a sufficiently structured rule for the telecommunications and media sector and adapted to a technological evolution of the market; a rule that Senator Salvini's party could well have put in place in recent years, if it had been up to it, while it governed and ruled out Italy [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u140	Colleagues, let Senator Di Nicola finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u141	DI NICOLA (M5S). For this reason, waiting for the general reordering of the Gasparri law, that you can not be Senator Salvini, unless you want to do the things muddled and confused that you have been proposing to this country for months and years [[Applause]] , there is a need for a transitional period of only six months, in which this Government proposes to entrust the Authority for Communications Guarantees (Agcom) with the task of initiating an investigation to verify the existence of positions detrimental to media pluralism. The task is entrusted to Agcom, an authority, and not to the first passing [[Applause]] and who in recent years has never had...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u142	Conclude, Senator Di Nicola. The time at your disposal is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u143	DI NICOLA (M5S). ...has never had the dignity to defend the information system in Italy from conflicts of interest that undermine it in root and discredit it still today. [[Applause.]] So there is no rescue against anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u144	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u145	DI NICOLA (M5S). I tell Senator Ugo Grassi, elected with the Movimento 5 Star and hosted in the League. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Nicola's Senator, you have to finish. I don't want to take her word for it. DI NICOLA (M5S). We don't do anyone any favors. We simply entrust to an impartial authority the task of protecting the system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u146	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.100 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u147	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 5.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u148	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u149	Amendments 5.0.1, 5.0.4 and 5.0.5 are unacceptable. Amendments 5.0.2 and 5.0.3 are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 5.0.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We had previously said that, at this point, we would decide whether or not to proceed with the explanations of vote. I await proposals from the Group Leaders. Senator De Petris has already informed me of her Group's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u152	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we also ask that we proceed with explanations of vote in such a way as to conclude the measure in the evening. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u153	I don't see any opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u156	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert - as we have already debated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - is in fact a measure that focuses essentially on the extension of the state of emergency; an extension that was decided by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020 until the end of 31 January 2021. Consequently, it is a decree-law that must adapt the regulatory system of decree-laws no. 19, 33 and 83, which provided for many provisions related to the final date of the state of emergency, which had ceased on 15 October and which, as a result of the resolution just referred to, was extended to 31 January 2021. We must remember that this measure therefore has a very technical character; it has as its central point the updating of the legislation that I recalled, starting from the decree-law n. 19, that it has typed the measures in order to face the epidemiological emergency and has defined in a better way the relationship between State and Regions, giving the Presidency of the Council the coordination and giving the possibility to the Regions to take only more restrictive and not widening measures than those put in field by the Government. In the following weeks, the legislation has seen some changes, also in relation to the change of the epidemiological framework. Unfortunately, we are already talking to the past because the data and the various situations of today in the country have brought us back objectively, very close to the situation in March. It is right, however, to make a chronology of regulatory acts. Decree-Law No. 33, the second decree, issued in phase 2, has determined the possibility of seeing progress in the relationship between State and Regions, with the possibility for the Regions to issue norms aimed at opening the country more, heard the Minister of Health. Those rules were a step forward taking into account the improved epidemiological framework. Today, clearly, this decree-law imposed a qualitative leap, and not so much because it redefined the terms of the state of emergency, or rather adapted the legislation to the lengthening of the terms of the state of emergency, as because it brought the hands back from the activity of the Regions. Today the Regions can absolutely adopt more restrictive measures but not more extensive, if not within the framework of the forecasts contained in the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and in agreement with the Minister of Health, and therefore no longer only through an information but exclusively with the understanding of the Ministry. Today, therefore, we are to approve a measure that extends all the contents of primary importance that were within the previous decrees, starting from the care Italy that has defined the framework of the initiatives that the Government has intended to take and that the Parliament has confirmed for the fight against the epidemiological emergency, and therefore starting from the assignments that can be attributed until 31 December for the permanent staff of the health professions, in order to continue with all the measures aimed at increasing the provision of beds of intensive therapies and in the operating units; all the initiatives aimed at allowing the Regions and the autonomous Provinces to establish the Special Units of assistance continuity; the extraordinary initiatives directed to the possible production in derogation to the provisions of surgical masks and personal protection devices, as well as those of solidarity that at the beginning the decree care Italy had provided for for the family members of doctors, nursing staff and health workers and that subsequently have been extended to all health professionals. The decree-law at our examination was therefore necessary to prevent all the regulations approved so far from becoming inapplicable for expiry of the terms and above all to maintain high attention in a country in which, unfortunately, today's data put us faced with objective difficulties. We should also take this into account in the political debate. We have often said this over the last few weeks, in order to avoid a perpetual and continuous confrontation on the subject of the pandemic, not seeing the efforts made by the Government to counter this situation, and to become aware together that we will only come out of it through a joint assumption of responsibility and not through a rebound of responsibility. In this sense, I believe that the measures we are examining will serve and will serve to enable the country to emerge gradually from the emergency. We will then have a real challenge before us, not only of a health nature, which does not end in these weeks and not even in the coming months. We will have to play the game of the vaccine, which I hope will be as close as possible, which however will lead to an important political confrontation because it will be the light that will allow us to get out of the tunnel. And above all we will have to prepare to support the country because the counterpositions take place on the measures also of an economic nature. (at 19.05) (Following GRIMANI). Now we'll have the games of the restorative decrees that will lead to divide us and open conflict. The theme is, however, to think about what the country of tomorrow will be, when they will end not only the measures such as the decrees of restoration, but also all the economic initiatives that have allowed it to resist. I am referring to the four pillars: the Cassa Integrazione, the blocking of redundancies, the moratorium on loans (it concerned 3 million people for 300 billion), the State guarantees on bank loans (110 billion for one and a half million companies). When this public architrave, which has supported the economy, beyond the controversy that we can bounce from morning to evening, will fail, as the ruling political class of this country we will have the burden of finding solutions to allow our territory to come out of the crisis. And, therefore, we will have to reject a debate and a short debate and focus, instead, on the fight against the emergency that the epidemic determines in the country and on thinking - the government is doing so; the majority wants to do so and we are aware that the opposition will also do so - how to rebuild it, starting from European aid; aid that I have not forgotten because they are central in the debate and will be the architrave that will have to withstand the rebirth of the country with the recovery plan and the 209 billion that in the coming years will allow Italy to build its identity. For this reason Italy Viva will participate in this battle with conviction. Together with this Parliament, we would like to write a page of revival and rebirth of the country, especially by being close to the people who are most in difficulty. I believe that with a good commitment and determination we can succeed and, therefore, confirm our commitment in a long-term perspective, but also by supporting and voting for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 125. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u159	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, we are called - as my colleague said before me - to vote on Decree-Law No 125, which essentially extends the state of emergency to 31 January next year, almost as if it were a due act or an obligation. Clearly, health is a value and it is, indeed, the very condition of the life of each of us. President, this is a very serious problem: the emergency has become the only justification for the choices that the government has made so far. We have long defined the state of emergency, but we are always unprepared for every emergency that comes. Today we are paying for the choices we did not make yesterday and tomorrow we will pay with a new lockdown for the choices we are not making today. It's a pandemic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the very high volume of voice prevents those who are talking about doing the surgery. I really pray to moderate you. Mr Calandrini (FdI). Today there is a pandemic that is not only Italian. In our opinion, there are ways and ways to handle a pandemic. Here we continue to pursue evil: we do not think about what is happening; we have no horizon but that of everyday life. The extensions allow and are allowing a series of decrees that are very often contradictory to each other. From January to today you have had exceptional powers with which another government would not have found itself in the situation in which we are all today. You have used all the powers granted by the state of emergency to impose bans, restrictions and not to fight the virus with the weapons with which it was to be fought, i.e. with the improvement of the National Health System. Mr President, it would be very interesting to know how the money given to health care has been spent. I want to remind you that in the last fifty years never as today have such important resources been given. But we have the answer: you have spent them badly and without a programmatic plan in terms of preventing the public health of Italian citizens. As our leader Giorgia Meloni very often recalled and asked several times, a political strategy was needed that in the emergency imagined a way out; and the exit cannot be generic, obvious, or even less obvious. With the decree-law in question you tell us to put the masks, which today is like saying: "Respire". But the question that arises to us is as follows: what are you doing for everything else, for example for the vaccination plan? The other countries, Germany first, in the emergency prepare the conditions to get out of it; here we are in the state of structural emergency. Where are the new intensive therapies? We are not passionate about the diatribe that exists at this moment between the Region and the National Government, because we must take care of the health of the Italians, the life of our fellow countrymen. Beware that it is not only a public health problem, but also an economic and social health problem. The state of emergency you call for is nothing, if then there is no strategy to get out of the emergency; and this to us of Brothers of Italy does not appear that there is from the Government. The center-left has been ruling this country almost uninterruptedly for over ten years. And what have you been doing for the past ten years? You closed hospitals in the name of saving, erasing health care on the ground. You declassified the basic doctors. You've made first aid the only plausible answer to the urgent need for health. Let's keep going, let's keep extending, but to do what? What did you do during the emergency phase? You have thought of reducing the capacity of public transport to 50%, without thinking that this did not mean reducing users: if you do not increase the rates of local public transport, the collections on public transport will continue to exist, as there have been up to now, regardless of the DPCM issued. We believe that every problem, even if it is as enormous as that of this pandemic, must result in lasting attitudes and changes. But you haven't done this to date, and you're re-proposing shredded and shredded things. One more question: how do we expect to find the doctors we have discovered we do not have, the nurses who are not there, the beds that we have found to be exhausted in a few days? Of all this, in the emergency phase that you are asking us to extend, you have done almost nothing. You see, if extending the state of emergency means extending all the evil measures that you have taken so far, we of Brothers of Italy tell you that we do not agree. And the symbol of this sloppyness, of your way of handling the emergency, has undoubtedly been Calabria, which has been in fashion in the last few days: we have witnessed an authentic disaster, with the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner for health, Saverio Cotticelli, wanted by Count I and confirmed by Count II, who discovered by chance, only during an interview, that he should have prepared the plan of contrast to the Covid of the Calabria Region. We are very critical of this, Mr President: the appointment of Commissioners for political reasons rather than for their competence will not help to deal with the current pandemic. It is time to change step: face the virus with the determination it requires, and not with the illogical measures we have seen so far. The real emergency of this country is not the coronavirus, but it is the Government, which has proved inadequate to deal with the situation, although it has at its disposal 100 billion euros; while having task force available; while having extraordinary powers at its disposal. Face the subject of the pandemic: you have all the tools to do so, you have taken them, Parliament has granted them to you, you have no excuses anymore. And of all that had to be done, you did little or nothing, except so much communication on the management of the pandemic moment. You have made so much communication that, today, in November, we are in the same condition as we were in May. In front, however, unfortunately, we no longer have the summer, but a long winter; in front we have the seasonal influence; in front we have a very cold season. For months we have been asking you for a confrontation in front of a problem of all, a confrontation on Italy. You responded with the management of contingent fear. Mr President, we are not negationists. We do not want to avoid responsibilities, but we would like to build a perspective for this country. Today, in the emergency, you have to do what you have to do, without if and without but. However, we must also decide what we would like to be after this pandemic phase, and we do not agree with that. We can only beat the emergency by changing the scenarios. Otherwise, we will repeat them to infinity and until, at some point - hopefully - the vaccine arrives. But after the vaccine arrives, from Italy, we will probably have only rubble. That is why the Brothers of Italy Group will vote against the decree-law in question. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u162	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the decree-law under consideration, which, among other things, like the two previous ones, is also the result of a proceduralisation of the whole system and the regulatory apparatus of the emergency, makes an absolutely necessary act, which is the extension of the state of emergency until 31 January. Obviously, in the decree itself, which cannot but extend a series of rules which, otherwise, would have expired on 15 October, were included - rightly - also a part concerning the issue of collection and, in the Commission, a number of other rules which essentially aim to extend the time limits already expired, given the emergency situation. The decree-law also carries out another operation, that is to intervene again on the norms relative to the relationship State-Regions. There had already been a first watershed, Decree-Law No. 6 of 2020, which provided for the adoption of DPCM, heard the Presidents of the Region or the President of the State-Regions Conference. Then, Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 limited the role of the Regions to the introduction of further restrictive measures. When important results began to emerge in the fight against the spread of the virus, he had rightly rethought also about the resumption of economic activity. I take these examples to illustrate how the decrees have, in some way, accompanied the evolution of the various scenarios. In fact, Decree No. 33 of 2020 had allowed the Regions to introduce additional derogations. Today the scenario - as we unfortunately know - is again heavily changed and, therefore, the direction of this decree, which intervenes to modify decrees no. 19 and 33, it is again again and rightly restrictive, precisely because of the rise of the contagions. I wanted to do this excursion, saving all the controversy there was. Rightly, it had to be noted that different forms had to be found on the use of DPCMs. The passage, not trivial, has caused that there has been a processamentalization of the management of the emergencies. This is the technical part of the decree-law. The other - and I would like to make a few comments on this - concerns how we face these decree-laws every time and how, in particular today, the debate in this House has somehow taken place. And it's always the same story. I have now heard some Members criticising the extension of the state of emergency and, in today's debate, many speeches always and punctually in the name of the polemics and concerning what has been done during the period of the outbreak, on which have been the shortcomings and who are the responsibilities. Let us all make together a list and a reconstruction of the various statements that have been made by many opposition representatives, even very much in view, since the country has unfortunately crossed the epidemic. We went from saying that nothing had to be closed to saying that instead it was necessary to close only in some areas; then we went to the continuous controversy when the measure on restaurants and bars was adopted. I could go on like this, but the serious thing is not only the level of debate that ensures that every time, even in a situation like this, we cannot find a meeting point that should always be in the name of responsibility and solidarity towards the country, therefore we need to work together for the adoption of measures to help the country in dealing with the epidemic and also in favour of the categories that need help; and there are many, because the suffering is now very wide in the country. The problem of this country is also represented by the existence of a kind of Tower of Babel among the various institutional levels. We want to go and see, again in this case, who in all the past months had to do what, which Region has done and which has not done, how one Region transmits the data and how does another? This is the issue that should affect everyone, majority and opposition. As some of my colleagues have already said today, there is one thing that cannot be tolerated. Go and see what is happening in other countries, where data is no less dramatic, indeed. Britain has exceeded 50,000 deaths and London has been closed; there are dramatic situations everywhere. However, I do not believe - and I challenge anyone to prove it - that there is a level of institutional confrontation between majority and opposition such as that present in our country. It is clear that we should raise the problem. The Babel between the various institutional levels, with the mayors against the Regions, the regions in conflict with each other and against the State: a country like ours cannot afford this. In addition, do you think that if you allow it in the face of such a serious situation from the epidemiological point of view and for the health of the citizens? Our Constitution has the necessary tools and we have allowed ourselves to put this issue in the debate over the last few months and weeks. Article 120 (2) of the Constitution states that, when national safety and public health are at stake, the Government may intervene with substitute powers. Perhaps, in some cases, after seeking agreement in all ways, we should have acted in this direction. We have also shared - I have fully shared - the choice of the Government to arrive, precisely in order to have a higher level of understanding with the Regions, at a differentiation, and not to discharge the responsibilities, but to obtain a co-responsibility and, above all, to ensure that the measures were as closely related to the real situation in the various territories. There are those who, even among the Presidents of the Region, wanted to close everything first and now instead alters because they want to stay in the yellow zone and not pass in the red one. I do not think this is sustainable at all. I also believe that it is no longer possible to postpone a debate, even at institutional and constitutional level, on these issues because such a situation a country like ours cannot afford it; it has not happened and it is not happening and it will not happen in any other country. We are certainly in a complicated and difficult situation. We have dealt here in the Senate with the first and second ristori decree and a whole series of measures that we probably need to strengthen even more in order to help the various categories, to meet the massacred sectors and to face a situation of suffering that perhaps is not to be enrolled in a single category, but concerns many precarious people who are experiencing a really difficult time. I think that we should do even more about this and put structural measures in place. The budget law, of course, must also look to the future of our country and we must combine emergency measures with structural measures for its recovery. Then there was the announcement of the vaccine. I would like to speak for a minute on a very serious issue: I think we should all work together to get the WTO to suspend patents. If we say that the vaccine will be for everyone, if we do not get to the suspension of patents, someone will be able to speculate on this too. I believe that, at least on this issue, this House should be united in order to ensure that the European Union too, as the Vatican is moving, is moving to demand the suspension of patents for vaccines and anti-Covid medicines. It would be, yes, a very important way to help, try to close the controversy and see us united on a small slogan that is the following: responsibility and solidarity, for our country and for those who are really suffering so much right now. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Senators of the Misto-Leu Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u165	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, we are following step by step the evolution of the pandemic that is affecting the whole planet, with the concentration of the greatest critical issues in the United States, Brazil and throughout Europe. The second wave is putting pressure on our health system, despite the fact that last March's intensive care posts doubled (over 10,000 today) and over 36,000 more people are in service, including 7,600 doctors and 16,000 nurses. Even in this new acute phase all healthcare professionals are offering an extraordinary availability, with a sense of duty that we will never forget. Beyond investment in the health system, certainly other actions in other sectors could be put in place to better control the contagion to the resumption of the main activities after the summer. There will be a need in the future to analyze errors and shortcomings. But this second wave was addressed by the government and this majority with a fundamental choice: to combat the spread of the virus trying to avoid the national lockdown. If anyone agrees with the implementation of the national lockdown today, as in March, say so here now in the Senate. If, on the other hand, we agree to implement the difficult attempt to avoid it, then we must take note of what it takes to do without playing to understand ourselves. The difficult attempt to avoid national lockdown is linked to the possibility of acting with more limited and targeted measures, which have the absolute need for an exercise of widespread and constant responsibility at all levels, institutional and non-institutional. For institutional levels, this means exercising responsibility for their respective competences. Close a square or a promenade to limit the gatherings and, therefore, limit the possible transmission of the virus, you can obviously do with a national lockdown that closes everything and, therefore, closes also the square and the promenade; but, if we want to avoid it, then mayors evaluate the data relating to their territory and make the necessary choice responsibly. Similarly, deciding that a piece of territory should be isolated because the concentration of contagions is high can be done with a national lockdown that blocks all movements and, therefore, also those related to that piece of territory; but, if we want to avoid it, then the regional presidents evaluate the data relating to their territory and make the necessary choice responsibly. This exercise of responsibility must not be in the category of nobility of mind, but Regions and mayors can rely on the Government and the Parliament that, with the latest decree-laws, provide resources for the restorative, able to support difficult choices with onerous repercussions for citizens, businesses and local authorities. That's the point. They're not report cards or anything. The way forward is through the evaluation of data on the response capacity of regional health systems, the strategies and actions to control the transmission of the virus that the data measure and, therefore, the exercise of their respective responsibilities by each institutional level. However, I have also mentioned the exercise of the responsibility of non-institutional levels, starting with citizens who, in order to protect themselves and others, have to wear the mask and observe physical distance. There are also all those who carry out activities in contact with the public and, as a matter of fact, those provided for in the protocols. It is clear that this attempt also includes the possibility that gradually all the Regions can become red and therefore you will arrive at a substantial national lockdown, as well as the possibility that the implementation of the limited and targeted choices leads to positive outcomes that avoid a generalized lockdown. This virus has reminded us that we are as a human race in a condition of great precariousness, but to each of us is associated a factor of precariousness - I would call it a multiplier of precariousness - which certainly depends on our age, our pathologies, but also on the level of the health services of our territory, the family conditions, the work we do: ultimately from the level of guarantees that everyone enjoys or does not enjoy. This multiplier of insecurity actually makes citizens very different from each other in the face of the pandemic and it is a topic that needs to be addressed, because the pandemic puts us in front of a long way to go as far as the comforting news comes about the discovery of vaccines, on which I will return. The Government and Parliament also have the task of reducing the multiplier of insecurity, in order to allow all citizens to face it with real and concrete conditions, which constitute hope for the future and justify responsibility for the present. The sequence of decree-laws that determine the rest must reduce precariousness, but we do not exclude actions that in the coming months, if necessary to prolong the situation of uncertainty, contribute in a solidarity way to reducing differences. Let me now say a few words on the subject of vaccines, in particular the concept of vaccine. Mr President, the State has the task of protecting not only individual but also collective health. The protection of collective health is also based on the duty of solidarity of everyone in preventing and limiting the spread of certain diseases. What is the balance between the protection of individual health and the protection of collective health? It is the vaccine, better understood as the duty to vaccinate all, which sets the measure of the duty of solidarity to which each of us is called to protect collective health. The vaccine is at the same time the measure of the duty of solidarity, but it is also the balance between the health risk of some and the health risks of all. How can we advance this balance represented by vaccines? It is done with scientific research aimed at making vaccines more and more secure regarding the effectiveness and presence of undesirable effects. Vaccines, when they arrive, will have to be free of charge and their administration will have to follow a precise plan, which the Higher Health Council is already preparing. In conclusion, I do not want to end without having completed the vision of the moment, facing the other commitment that belongs to Government, Parliament and Regions, which concerns the future of the country. The use of Next Generation EU funds is a challenging test for Italy, which must exit from that phase of more competitive, digital, greener, more infrastructure, more equipped in health care, more homogeneous in services to the citizen; ultimately, more united and supportive. These projects must be decided, drawn up, implemented, implemented and reported by 2026. I believe that this challenge must make us all more capable of joining the real country and of unity of intent at all levels. The Democratic Party is working in this direction and the Senate PD Group will give the concrete sense of this will with the vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u168	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in January 2020 there was the measure declaring the state of emergency for six months; in October there was a further measure by the Government extending the state of emergency to January 2021, which was already known in January (but we will deal with this later). The measure under consideration is little more than administrative. It's about the need to use masks; at this point you don't understand when they are mandatory and when they aren't (let's think about jobs and interpersonal distances within families) and it creates a bit of confusion. There is a prohibition of the Regions to provide less restrictive rules than those established by the Government. The following measures are also envisaged: greater use of agile labour; a way of regulating judicial activities; strengthening of the project "Secure roads" with 753 units; extension of the time limits for the organisation of the Ministries; extension of the members of the corporate bodies; extension of certain deadlines for the payment of taxes; the operational continuity of the Covid-19 alert systems and extension of the time limits for the processing of new applications for ordinary cash integration, ordinary cheque and extraordinary cash integration. We must also note in a favourable way (because what we do not lack, I believe I can say, is intellectual honesty) that, unlike what happened for the other measures, we felt, also concretely, a different willingness on the part of the Government and the majority to accept suggestions of common sense in the interest of the country. In fact, we do not discuss the salvation of a government or a majority but of the future of the country, of our children, of our families, so I believe that by sense of responsibility everyone is led to make his own contribution. We have seen the adoption of rules amending the National Statistical System, the extension of the deadlines to facilitate the gradual resumption of economic activity and the anticipation of the entry into force of certain rules of the Code on the crisis of enterprises. We also welcomed the rapporteur's amendment concerning the temporary sterilization of that European Court ruling which created a vulnus in our system and which put important assets in jeopardy for our country. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs there was an in-depth and analytical discussion on the point by Mr Gasparri, who probably everyone should have listened to, because it is not an amendment arrived at nighttime but an alert that was even signalled by the Copasir. [[Applause]] Our secret services have highlighted the concrete risk that hostile foreign capital could scale national properties, and that today is called Mediaset and tomorrow Telecom - said also Senator Salvini - does not matter if we all believe that these assets, these assets are essential in a moment of economic fragility. I do not have to remember what happened a few years ago in Greece, hit by the troika: there was Germany that made incetta of ports and airports of that country. If anyone thought our country was for sale, he was obviously wrong. I also want to say one thing, not to break a spear in favour of the rapporteur, but to establish a moment of truth about how this amendment has been achieved. It was, as the rapporteur said several times, a technical amendment which was before Agcom. That is why, at a meeting of the Bureau, it was agreed that at any time this amendment had arrived, precisely because it was not a political but a technical amendment, there would be no time limit for sub-amendments. Unfortunately, at that moment, Senator Augussori was absent for justified institutional reasons and so it seemed that an agreement had been made behind the backs of a group and a party, but that was not the case. We have therefore welcomed this amendment, precisely because we are on the right track. Here the positive things of this measure end, as it is right that it is also in the respect of the parties involved. This situation has been known since January 2020. I said that in other speeches and nobody denied it and could not do it: there is a report by an international institute that spoke of a pandemic that would last at least a year, with tens of thousands of deaths, the government was perfectly aware of it and did not release these news so as not to create alarmism. It would then be too easy, at a time like this, in an instrumental way, to attack the government for what is happening. It is clear that it is a serious, alarming situation, which can probably be compared to a state of war, however we cannot fail to point out that this situation has been dealt with with with approximation and superficiality, starting from the proclaimed lockdown 9 March-18 May 2020, a lockdown that has hit the whole country in a general way, when it would have been enough to isolate the North because the South had not yet been contaminated and instead let there be flows from the North to the South, so this problem, which was a general problem but located in a well-determined part of the country, has become a pandemic that has hit the whole country. And after two months of lockdown we did not have the courage to say clearly that the emergency situation was not at all over. We all went on vacation believing that the worst was behind us and during that period not only did not take the necessary and necessary controls, that after the summer they saw engaged Regions that until then had been free from the problem of the pandemic, at least in the form so serious as it manifested itself after, but also the citizens thought they had left behind the negative problems. Added to all this is the repeated use of decree-laws - we are at an altitude of 18 - which make the pair with 18 other decrees of the President of the Council, which recall norms on norms and become difficult to interpret, because they are unclear and refer to implementing decrees that you have not been able to implement; it is useless to make decree-laws when then you are unable to issue implementing decrees. [[Applause]] 72 out of 252 have been made; this is not the way of governing. If we add to all this the fact that there are judicial investigations into how to manage the health crisis, obviously what we have been saying for months is not an invention of oppositions but is an objective fact of lack of responsibility and ability to address the problems. As I said before, the fate of the Government and that of the majority is not in question, but the future of our country. From all the opposition forces came a pressing and constant invitation, a willingness to give its contribution; we had only shoulder straps, we had the advantage of having the notification of the measure two hours before it was issued. That's not the way to move on. I believe that it is also necessary for the majority to have the comfort of the opposition in facing difficult moments in which it is also important to guarantee certain times of refreshment to the companies that are on their knees and that risk creating an unbreakable hole in our economy. We appreciate some new elements, a reversal of trend, but it is too little. We do not want to be called to discuss your provisions, your decrees-laws; we want to be called to discuss before the approval and adoption of the decree-laws [[Applause]] There is then a fundamental moment on which the quality and nature of the relationship between majority and opposition will depend once and for all, without alibi and without infancy. This insurmountable moment is the budget law: in that place we will appreciate whether there really was resistance or not! [[Applause]] Until then, while acknowledging that something has changed, our vote on this measure is against [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u171	CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, what we are seeing, and what the Italians are seeing, is something that is really worrying us so much: the lack of that mental organization that should be within a government that should govern an important situation. Such a lack of mental organization makes us and the Italians think of being in one of those science fiction films where there are time travels (let's think of going back to the future, to the machine of time, or to what you prefer), simply because we seem to have returned to the month of March, when President Count and the majority did not actually know what to catch. The problem, Mr President, is that the months have passed, so from the experience of this majority and this government we expect different things. The problem is that it is not enough to say that the League or minority parties are negationists, since they do not agree with what the majority is proposing. Here there are no negationists; here we are people very concerned about what is happening. Nobody, Mr President, minimizes the gravity of the situation that exists, not only in Italy but worldwide: we realize this, we are not unsubstantiated, we know what is happening. However, Mr President, that is precisely why we expected more from this Government. We expected a President of the State Council, who would have to lead our country out of this difficult situation through the fight against the virus, through help to businesses and families, through a programming for the future that we are not seeing. We expected a President-in-Office of the Council to reassure the Italians, not only in words, on the news or in the newspapers, but in concrete acts. The problem is that we very often see the President of the Council on television saying one thing one day and tomorrow another: everything and the opposite of everything. We expected a President-in-Office of the Council who, with surprising leadership, would summon all the parties, not just the majority parties, to sit down at a table, perhaps complaining and surely sharing with us this moment and the proposals that the majority were putting forward. And yet, once again, the President of the Council has not denied us; he has confirmed what we continue to say: a majority that thinks of living on another planet, that there is no Parliament, that there is no minority. Above all, it makes quite a smile that there have been two calls from the President of the Council to President Salvini, which lasted less than a few minutes, before going to the press conference. If you think this is the cooperation to be offered to minority forces - and at this point I also say of opposition to this Government - well, it's a little too little. So don't think you can handle it like this. [[Applause.]] We expected a President-in-Office of the Council to respect Parliament, who is the body elected by Italian citizens, and we represent the Italian citizens who elected us. Here too, however, respect for Parliament does not exist: one DPCM after another, which simply creates confusion about confusion. The problem is that at this moment we are in the second phase of the Covid, after the summer break, with growing numbers, with the virologi that tell us that the situation is increasingly worrying, that there are certain expectations and that the Italians have some expectations, but the confusion that reigns sovereign makes us delirious: decree ristori 1, DPCM, decree ristori 2, most likely another DPCM will arrive, and - voila - before Christmas, the decree ristori 3 because already is being talked about. A confusion that reigns in this country and creates problems not only for operators, but also for families, businesses, all those who would like to have assurances from this Government. Every fifteen days a different attempt to resolve the situation; but sit around a table and give us serious, concrete and definitive indications, and let us respect them all! But this is not happening. The problem, Mr President, is that everything happened after the summer. We continue to remind the majority forces that there was a summer period during which there was the possibility to sit around a table, to summon experts, to work, to show the country that we would be there and that you would be prepared to solve, or try to solve, the problem. It's been many months but nothing really happened. You didn't do any programming, so let's keep going after the summer and remember that there was a return to school. Colleagues, we know very well that Italian students have returned to school after the children of other countries and, as a result, the pandemic has returned late to us compared to other countries, but we are chasing them, we are coming back. Again there was a need to do something, to show that something was being done, but what has been done? We are still here to talk about the transport problem. But when we have Minister De Micheli saying that it is not true that there are problems on metropolitans etc., what are we talking about? Deny the evidence. [[Applause.]] It is the same Minister who this summer told us that in Liguria we arrived quietly. So, what are we talking about? When we have Minister Azzolina on the school... let's forget it! When we have Minister Hope who, on health care, for months continued to tell us that it was enough to respect the three rules and instead it is not enough. And then one thing we ask you is: make them respect the rules, because if no one respects them it is because you are not authoritative! [[Applause.]] It is because to the people, to the Italian people, what you actually say enters from one ear and comes out from the other. We also talk about the economic part of our country. Also in this case, various decrees have followed; in these days we are also seeing the new ones. There are an avalanche of categories, of Ateco codes that are asking us to please speak to the majority, to help them. There are 207,000 people still waiting for the Integration Fund. [[Applause]] : 207,000 Italian citizens to whom you have made a promise! I give some examples: the transformation for ice cream shops and pastry shops, travel agencies, pyrotechnics, event and congress organizers, and I could go on talking about these codes for hours. But you've found time for escorts and sexy shops. Great! Awesome! [[Applause]] It is true that they also work. So many Italians tell us we have to send you home. Many Italians, compared to the last few months, are telling us that trust in President Conte and this Government is no longer at the level of this spring, when it was hoped for something different. The problem is that I would like to send them home, dear Italians, but the party of the cadrega is stronger than the party of those who want to send them home these gentlemen. [[Applause]] However, since the party of the cadrega is strong, we are here with concrete proposals, we sit at the table with concrete proposals, we go to the Commissions with concrete proposals, we come to the classrooms with concrete proposals. The League has concrete proposals. The League proposes and we would be willing to sit at the table when there was a serious interlocutor who wants to confront us. The problem is that surely those who are listening to us from home will think that I am boring because I always say the same things. This is the third time that Senator Centinario has intervened and this is the third time he has said the same things. But the problem is that nothing is changing, they don't listen to us, they don't do anything, they don't propose, they don't help the Italians, only with a few change. So, President, how can Italians trust you? In the spring there were sheets with writing on it, everything will be fine, if you remember. Now, instead, there are Italians who are saying that everything will not be okay. Optimism has replaced pessimism and anger. In the spring there were songs. The people were waiting for 6:00 p.m., opening the balconies and singing those who "beautiful hello", who the hymn of Mameli, some sang the songs of Toto Cutugno, all happy because then things would change. Things have changed because in autumn there are street demonstrations, angry people, angry people and, in some cases, people who commit suicide. I remind everyone that President Conte made a promise: no one will be left behind. Therefore, Mr President, we shall vote against the measure before us for the sake of respect for all Italians who expect concrete action. Once again, with this measure, you have shown that projects and ideas do not have any, [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u174	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators and fellow senators, I immediately announce that the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour of this measure on which I want to focus my attention starting from a brief framework of its own, given the current situation. When this decree-law was approved by the Council of Ministers on 7 October last, in Italy stood at about 3,600 the daily increase in cases of Covid-19 and the total number of hospitalized in intensive care was 337. Today the daily growth of contagions is almost ten times as much, and nearly three thousand places in intensive care are occupied by Covid patients. In Spain and France the situation was already serious on 7 October, with France recording more than 18,000 new daily infections. In those days Senator Salvini asked for more autonomy of choice for the regional governors and claimed that the mask certainly had to be worn while before he had shown much reluctance to wear it right here in the Senate. The leader of the Molinari League wondered what the extension of the state of emergency was for and also the president of the deputies of Brothers of Italy Francesco Lollobrigida had expressed himself critically. That was the situation on 7 October when the Commissioner warned that the beds occupied in intensive therapies would increase and he was right. Today, more than a month later, the controversy of that day, with President Toti criticizing the measure that since then prevents the Regions from relaxing the measures envisaged by the Government, if not concerted with the Minister of Health, appear really small. These attitudes and words in the wind have been swept away by the reality of the facts, which no one today can deny or belittle. It seems therefore small to argue about a situation that, as we unfortunately see today, was right for those who chose to put the obligation of mask even in the open and to prevent in any way a loosening of the measures from anyone. We could not afford it and today even from the Regions come messages and more collaborative approaches towards the Government. We cannot wait for the health situation to rush to promote maximum cooperation between the various institutional levels. Today it is no longer time to point the finger; we will deal with the failure of the regionalization of health when this pandemic is over; we will deal with the management to say the least deficit of some territories; we will deal with the failure to implement the increase of beds in intensive care and special units of care continuity (USCA) by some regions when we are no longer in emergency. Now, however, it is time to move: hospitals are in trouble; beds are lacking, patients unfortunately often left to themselves. What's it gonna take to get out of this emergency together and together? First of all, we need a multi-level deal. The government is doing everything in its power. The decree that we examine today is one of the many pieces of government action characterized by responsibility, speed of intervention and emergency and structural measures in every sector involved. Parliament has also made an important contribution. In particular, the Movimento 5 Star Group included some important forecasts during the examination in the Commission. For example, we have intervened on the rules governing the renewal of the statutory bodies of public research bodies supervised by the Ministry of University and Research by setting a maximum period within which in any case to renew the expired bodies. For third sector entities such as ONLUS, voluntary organisations, social promotion associations and social enterprises, we have extended to 28 February 2021 the time limits within which these entities must adapt their statutes and organisation to the legislation provided for following the approval of the reform of the third sector and with another amendment we have extended for 2020 the publication of decisions on changes in the rates and regulations on municipal taxes. With another important amendment, adopted unanimously, we have provided for the suspension of the deadlines for payment of taxes, social security contributions and premiums for compulsory insurance against accidents and occupational diseases until 31 December 2020 for shipowners of vessels seized from the Libyan authorities on 1 September. Colleagues and colleagues, these are all amendments... ( [[Comments]] ). You voted for them, too. ( [[Comments. References by the President).]] Colleagues and colleagues, these are all amendments aimed at resolving practical problems affecting institutions, bodies, municipalities and citizens and accompanying the measures already provided for in the original text. The decree-law then establishes an important novelty for the Immuni app: interoperability with platforms operating for the same purposes in the territory of the European Union is allowed. Following this arrangement, within a few days the app became interoperable with similar systems used in Germany, Ireland, Spain and Latvia. Now our digital tracking system also works in these four European countries and their apps carry out tracking in our country. Perhaps never before, as in the case of the pandemic, have we realized how the geographical and political boundaries are relative. The disease ignores them and the strategy to combat the virus must therefore also act supranationally. So there are the appropriate measures and resources; there is now one last piece missing. It is now the task of the Presidents of the Region to act; they all have the broadest support, but what is their responsibility must be done and must be done immediately. Let us also leave out here the ridiculous controversy that has been triggered on red, orange and yellow areas, as if it were a race, as if it were a personal punishment and not a way to help the territories. We have developed a scientific system that, through a complex and data-rich process, leads to unquestionable final parameters. It is useless to pretend that the different zones are decided in an improvised way, like a roll of dice; it is not so and it offends the collective intelligence if it is said publicly. In conclusion, as representative of the Movimento 5 Stars, I hope that we can proceed quickly to the conversion into law of this decree-law, which allows our system Country to continue its activity in this difficult period for Italy and the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u175	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 125 of 7 October 2020 on urgent measures related to the extension of the declaration of the epidemiological emergency status from COVID-19 and for the operational continuity of the COVID alert system, as well as for the implementation of Directive (EU) 2020/739 of 3 June 2020" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u178	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking only to tell you something that happened last Sunday, exactly in Forte dei Marmi. A couple secluded on the pier, pulled down the mask and gave themselves a kiss. What happened? The guards intervened and raised a fine of 400 euros to the two boys. From there there were television footage, made by the journalist Gaetano D'Arienzo, and immediately on live television with the journalistic newspaper "Italia 7" (whose director is Fabrizio Manfredini) there was information about what had happened. The next day in the newspapers we saw that the complaint was even filed for a public service interruption. But, if a fine of 400 euros has been made, what kind of interruption has there been? At the same time, in the same hours and in the same city, there were a series of abusive sellers selling in the territory, some without mask and others with mask (they sent me immediately the photos of the place); so there are double weights and two sizes. Why in the city is it allowed to sell abusively to some without masks and, on the other hand, it is a violation of 400 euros to two boys - who, for God's sake, were wrong to take off the mask - for having given themselves a kiss in a public place? The same meter of measurement should be used. They sent me videos of people who in Rome, as I posted on my Facebook page, at 6.30 p.m. (in Forte dei Marmi the episode happened in the early afternoon), gather to drink in a public place without masks. Therefore, Mr President, the point, in my opinion, is that we use double standards. I conclude with the last episode, which happened in the city of Montecatini, to show how, in the territory, laws are enforced differently. In Vicofaro, in a community run by a priest, Don Biancalani, 100 non-EU citizens closed inside his church were transferred (because it could accommodate at most 19) to Montecatini Terme: all there. And who pays these expenses? It was enough to respect the rules and not put 100 people inside a church, within a community, when the law states that there must be only 19. Italians are paid for third party responsibilities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u181	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, the arrests this morning of the managers and the former CEO of Autostrade per l'Italia (Aspi), present the inopportunity that the granting of a very important part of the Italian motorways and infrastructure will remain in the hands of this company. [[Applause]] The charge of attack on the safety of transport and fraud in public supplies, having consciously used dangerous sound-absorbent barriers at risk of collapse on days of strong wind (events that have actually occurred on the Genoese highway network) and having not replaced them to maximize profits. They are therefore similar accusations to those relating to the collapse of the Morandi Bridge, in which the omitted maintenance and the omitted controls led to the disaster that we all know. In this situation Minister De Micheli, a few days ago, came to the Senate to tell us that the procedure for the resolution of the convention for serious default would be suspended in July 2019, to allow negotiations with the company Aspi. You understand, it is written in the shorthand report: July 2019. I hope it is a refutation, that it is a mistake of the Minister, which means 2020. However, in the official report, the Minister speaks of suspending proceedings in July 2019. Now, if it were true, this Parliament and the whole country would not have been informed, for a year, of this suspension of proceedings. That would be a very serious matter, which I intend to censor. I would also like to censor the fact that, for more than a year, some of my questions (one for about a year and a half) have not been answered, so as to know what is the maximum time limit for concluding these negotiations and to resume the sacrosanct procedure for revocation. For these reasons, Mr President, I would like to renew them, because this is not the first time I have asked you to urge the Government, and in particular the Minister for Relations with Parliament, to respect the prerogatives of the inspection union of Members of Parliament. I would also ask the President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to restart and immediately conclude the resolution procedure suspended in July 2019 (or July 2020, depending on the situation). Until that happens, I will continue to ask new questions - I am in the fourth - and to censor the government's guilty inertia on this point. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u182	Senator Crucioli, the Presidency takes note and will take charge of extending its solicitation to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u185	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I am inspired by a message, one of the many messages and indications that come from a particular category of teachers. I am referring to the so-called immobilized or exiled teachers, some following the Good School Act, No 107 of 2015, but others also earlier. This is a problem which I would like to put to the attention of the whole House and which is not clearly relegatable to this Government, as it is the result of a management of the world of teaching questionable from the point of view of recruitment and mobility. This teacher writes: Make yourself aware in Parliament that not only did they not want to grant us extraordinary interprovincial mobility, but now, after paying the subscription for the month of November, Trenitalia has canceled many races that allowed us to reach Rome every day. And then he goes on with his complaint. We are now working on the so-called "restoration decrees" and on the "ristori bis" decree, which has just arrived. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it should not be understood only from the economic point of view, which clearly has its meaning, because we are also talking about the general well-being of people and, in this case, also of households, which could also have an economic refreshment. What do you mean? I am referring to allowing these teachers - and these are the demands that I have already presented to the Ministry in the past months - to return to their places of origin. We are talking about teachers who have been out for more than five years and who bear expenses that are not compensated by the Ministry of Education (speak of transport, food, accommodation, etc.). A whole process of order should be put in place with regard to mobility, stabilisation and recruitment which could also be linked at the time of temporary blocking of competitions. An intervention, also on the administrative level, at this time when we are definitely about to close, could therefore be done. I undertake to table amendments both in the context of the conversion of the decree-laws and the budgetary manoeuvre (although I hope I do not have to get there) in order to address this issue, I hope collegiately.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u186	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-274.ana.u187	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 12 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.17 p.m.
