ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. As agreed by the Conference of the Leaders, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 10.30 a.m. with the reading of the agenda. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 10.35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to remind you of a great woman who has left us prematurely today: Jole Santelli. Jole Santelli was for all of us a great witness of courage and service to the community. Lawyer, long-term politician, passionate, competent and visionary, she has been elected to the Chamber of Deputies for almost twenty years, carrying forward the ideas of a liberal, moderate and Catholic project that has always distinguished her. His political commitment and love for his land were his fellow travelers, also in the experience of the first woman President of Calabria: an experience that he was able to honour, continuing to fight even during the illness for what he believed, with that extraordinary strength, that determination and civil passion that only great women can express. I think we should all take an example of his courage, just as we should commit ourselves to ensuring that the renewal project that Jole Santelli had started for Calabria can continue. I would like to express, on behalf of the whole House, the most heartfelt closeness to the family and to the whole Calabrian community, which loses a great guide and a solid point of reference towards that long-awaited path of growth. I call on Members to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u7	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr. President, I apologize to all of you... Forgive me, but with this intervention the Forza Italia Group of the Senate wants to transfer to the family of Jole all his affection, his closeness and his participation, because Jole has been, is and will always be part of the life of all of us. [[Applause]] You have already said, Mr President, about your political activity. She was always a passionate woman... It rarely happens that I use a handkerchief when I speak and I hope it doesn't happen anymore. She has always been a woman full of passion, enthusiasm, energy and determination, who has put into everything she has done. Each of us has known her, not only in politics, but also in an aspect of her life, that we never wanted to live with her, that is, her illness. That's the thing I'd like to remember about you, because in this Jole was really an example for all of us. Jole, as a true warrior who has always been, has been able to fight and overcome the disease, which has not prevented her to continue in her charge of enthusiasm and energy, to pursue her dreams and to achieve her goals. Even during the last election campaign, when the disease was almost opposed to her and her ability to do things, Jole taught us that you can normalize, that you can live with the disease, that you can fight the disease and you can go on. The disease can make you stronger: that's what he said and that's what I would like to remember about her, because, together with her extraordinary ability to excite and excite herself and her ability in the administration, which she has demonstrated even in these few months of government of Calabria, is the thing that has absolutely affected all of us. You can live with illness: it does not prevent us from achieving our goals and pursuing our dreams and you can normalize. What happened today, of course, caught us all by surprise. You've known to be great to the very last, even in this. When we came here, we confronted each other and each one brought his own memory, as happens in these cases. We all wanted to say something about her, but no one is able to do it, neither am I: I am probably saying the least significant things, but they are the ones that come from the heart, as well as from the memory that we have of her, as a woman, as well as as as a politician, and that is the most important thing. Senator Fulvia Caligiuri told me something beautiful, with which I would like to depart from you, but not from her, who will always stay with us. [[Applause]] If now, on Google, you do a search on Calabria, bad indices come out, such as 'ndrangheta, corruption, usury. It would be nice - the ability to pursue your dreams in spite of everything and to identify and achieve the goals - if, after a couple of years from now, since you had settled in Calabria, doing a Google search, on ten bad things came out at least four beautiful, because Calabria is a wonderful land [[Applause]] , as well as wonderful is every part of our country to which we have the honour to dedicate our activity. Thank you, Jole, so thank you for what you've done and for what you've been for all of us. But I do not want to conjugate the verb to the past; Jole will always be with us, simply in the next room, as they say in these cases, but always with us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u10	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, we in the Fratelli d'Italia Group want to express our closeness to Jole's family. It is very difficult on these occasions to find words. All of us this morning, myself, when we woke up, in reading the news of Jole's death, we didn't want to believe it, because it seemed impossible. I followed her during the election campaign, I saw her so strong, so brave and, unfortunately, we are here to talk about her in such a dramatic moment. I wanted to say a few words about Jole, because I had the honour of being his "counter partner" for an entire legislature, when unfortunately the illness had come upon him. But on that very occasion I got to know Jole and the woman she was. Jole was an extraordinary woman, with dignity and a confidentiality of pain that should really be an example for everyone. I remember when he came to the House after the surgery, of course under conditions that were certainly not optimal for her as a woman, he was close to me and said to me: "Don't worry, Daniela, because you'll see, I'm strong and I'll make it." She never wanted to talk about her illness, ever, and if you loved Jole, you didn't have to ask her how she was doing, but you had to talk about something else. These are the important women as an example, the brave women, who fight. I'm absolutely sure that Jole was aware that every day for her could be the last, but she never lived as if it were the last of her days. I believe that this is the most important testimony that Jole leaves to all of us: I do not speak from a political point of view, because, when a woman leaves, politics in my opinion remains behind. We must remember her for what she was, for how brave she was, for how decisive she was, for her attachment to her difficult land, to which she dreamed of being able to make a great contribution and in fact she was really angry like a panther when she spoke ill of her Calabria. I believe that the words then leave the time they find and perhaps today each of us, present in this House, should do something for Calabria in memory of Jole Santelli, to carry on his dream for his land. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u13	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this morning we were stunned, saddened and moved by the news of the disappearance of Jole Santelli. She was a strong woman, who had a brilliant university and political career, animated by an immense civic sense that accompanied her throughout her life. I met her during the 16th legislature when we were both in the Chamber of Deputies. Although I am not in the Commission itself, I am well aware of the esteem that all my colleagues had for you. He was a person, an important colleague, who has held - rightly and worthily - important roles as Undersecretary. It was unbelievable to think that, sick, he still accepted, for his land, to run for office and make a very heavy campaign. However, when the objective (i.e. making a contribution to change) is important, obstacles - as well as the disease - take second place in the background. She was like this: incredibly generous, convinced and animated by a force, a feeling and an immense desire to contribute to the progress of her land and her community. I repeat: she was an incredibly generous woman. I think moments like the current one are for all of us to think. Taken from the daily stab, from the polemic vis and, many times, from very vulgar and violent attitudes in the political struggle, in front of moments of sadness and our downfall we should perhaps reflect on the behaviors that we often assume. I believe that most of us live a heavy life here and have very intense rhythms. We know what it's like to work in the Senate and be a member of parliament on the ground. We live so fast that we lose sight of the important things, the personal relationships and the value that each of us must instead continue to cultivate and hold, that is to be good and valuable people and represent our own land and our own people. Mr President, with this reflection I send, on behalf of my Group, a hug to the Forza Italia Group, the family and the community of Jole Santelli. I also think it is right that the very important memory that I have of Jole in the House of Deputies should remain, because it deserves it. She was a woman of great value and feeling and a Member of Parliament who must remain an example for all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we, the Senators of the Mixed Group and the Free and Equal Members, wish to express our closeness to the family of Jole Santelli and to all his loved ones. This morning I was very impressed, like everyone else, by the news of his death, which grieved us. I met Jole Santelli during the 14th legislature: you were in the Chamber of Deputies and I was in the Senate, but you were Undersecretary for Justice. I've always been struck by her sunshine. She was a woman - it has been said - intelligent and courageous, but also very solar and very helpful also in relations with other political parties. This morning I received many calls, also from Calabria, of people who were not of his political side: this is to say how much the news of his disappearance has struck everyone in a cross-cutting way. As has been said, she was a woman who had a lot from life, but she also had a lot of courage; she committed herself to militancy and always tried to make herself strong, fighting for the rights of women also especially with her personality. I would also like to say that he had the courage to put himself at risk by applying for the presidency of his region, at a time not simple for her and of personal difficulty, with the passion to want to do something important for her land, which he loved deeply: it was in fact intensely rooted in her Calabria. We are experiencing a difficult and complex moment, in which she found herself acting as President, but also in this case she set a record: she was the first woman President of the Calabria Region, having first reached so many goals, having very soon begun to be engaged in politics as parliamentarians. The thing that has always impressed us is that we have always had relationships not only very friendly, but also of communication and exchange, because she was a brave and strong woman, who respected others and political opponents, and was always ready to listen, just as she should be in politics. I want to remember her above all so, as a solar person, courageous, who faces - I say this after watching her last press conference - even the most difficult situations, as have those of the last few months, with a great strength and a nice smile. Goodbye, Iole. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u19	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, today is a bad awakening for Calabria and for the whole country because, when a young woman is missing, courageous and free, she is serious for the whole of Italy; a woman who has always been committed at national level and who was now giving her life - yes, her life - for Calabria, a difficult region, where politics is difficult and where it is necessary to be free and have a relevant commitment, constant, daily. And you, Iole, have been able to stand up to this commitment despite the illness that plagued you and that you had the courage to deny even smiling. You've never lost courage and tenacity. You have always been a strong woman over the years and in this last period you have been particularly strong, with the ability to ignore provocations and continuous social aggressions, in this age of smallness, lowness and social envy. Non-conformist woman, free woman and fighter: in a few days we should have been at the Festa del cinema in Rome, where you brought a great project for Calabria, the short film of director Gabriele Muccino "Calabria," my land. May this land be light to you, Iole. Goodbye. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u22	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I personally met Jole Santelli thank you or, if you like, because of this political experience, although I am a citizen of the same city where you were, last but not least, an administrator. We have always had very different political positions and we have also had fierce oppositions. She was Vice-President of the anti-Mafia Commission and, therefore, she was a member of the Bureau, sharing the very important responsibility of promoting action against dynamics which are obviously non-democratic. I'm the only man who intervenes today. Jole Santelli was, on the contrary, has - I like to use the present - fifty-one years, not even 52, because he would soon have fulfilled them. Jole Santelli died of a female tumor in a region that, still today, cannot guarantee its inhabitants a decent level of care, especially for cancer patients. By the way, I personally know both your combat companions, who shared chemotherapy with you, and your therapists, doctors and nurses who have been with you on days that no one wishes anyone. On this occasion, taking up the wish of Senator Rivolta, we can all understand that the right to health, especially for women who decide to face a politically important challenge, must be guaranteed to the full. Jole's condition, as far as we all know, has also become worse because of the stress of a life that, too often, is centered on the lack of respect, in which one tends to one another as if, in the absence of arguments, it must produce the political result. I am convinced that, since his death, we can all be called to choose, as if placed in front of a crossroads, and decide whether to use as a memento what happened. We are all called not to neutralize this event, but to confront it, as it is indissolubly linked to existence. Therefore, we are all called, every day, to account for our choices, even for what we do to protect the rights of others. I would like to remind you that Calabria is experiencing a health emergency with a very low adhesion to preventive screening. Unfortunately, we still have the cancer register to make. We have a health emergency, especially for cancer, which is extraordinarily strong. We have many oncologists working in hospitals in other parts of Italy, but we have difficulties in getting our patients treated in Calabria. I believe that Jole would have been absolutely in agreement, at least on this, to promote a common effort that leads everyone to understand that you can't pretend anything if those who live next to you are not well. In Calabria there is a chronic structural emergency and beware that it is a paradox to speak of chronic emergency. We should all allow so many women, who are even less than fifty-one years old today, to live with serenity a difficult phase in the life of each of us who are called oncology, with the hope, at least, of being treated with respect and dignity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u25	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, I believe that each of us has feelings of dismay, sadness and disbelief. As has just been mentioned, at just fifty-one years goes away a woman with the capital D, first interpreter, in her parliamentary experience, of a liberal thought and then example of how a woman can face the challenge marking a turning point in the leadership of a difficult region, with the serious problems that Calabria has. She has done so with determination, with a smile and with courage; with that civil courage that is sometimes lacking and with which she has faced the challenge knowing that she has precarious health conditions, but experiencing a great love for her land. It has made an important contribution to the management of a terrible emergency such as the pandemic, which has been added to the other terrible emergencies that live historically in Calabria. His experience and style also give us an invitation to have greater respect among us and greater consideration that our passage, with all its anxieties, is only a short passage. From the PD Group, I express to his family, to the Calabrian and southern community, to his party of Forza Italia our deepest closeness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u28	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, a terrible news came out this morning: the premature disappearance of a woman who is too young. I have had the opportunity to meet and work with Jole Santelli for many years in the Commission in the House. I met an intelligent, courageous, passionate, funny woman, but above all a woman who, even when she knew and wanted to be sharp and flamboyant, with arguments always conclusive, did it with an extreme and great serenity. With Jole we had some very hard political confrontations, but always on a level of mutual respect and high esteem, also because, if so, the strength of your ideas is able to overcome even the differences of your thought compared to that of others. Jole's beautiful person, so attached to her land, a sunny, serene woman, will be missed. We're always gonna miss you, Jole. [[Applause.]] 11.10 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u29	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders has made changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 29 October. In today's sitting, after the deliberations on the proposal for a preliminary question on the decree-law extending measures against the Covid-19, the general discussion of the 2019 European delegation law and related reports will be concluded. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place with the presence of the Foreign Ministers and for youth policies and sport. The week from 19 to 23 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The schedule of work of the week from 27 to 29 October provides, in addition to the conclusion of the law of European delegation 2019 and related reports, the discussion of the following drafts of law: on the posting of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region; for the establishment of the National Day in memory of the victims of judicial errors; laying down provisions in the matter of fearful quarrel; for the reform of the crime of defamation through the press. Thursday 29 October at 3 p.m. the question time is expected.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u30	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 14 October 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 29 October: [[Thursday 15 October h. 9.30 am - Deliberation on a proposal for a preliminary ruling on the draft law n. 1970 - Decree-Law n. 125, Extension of law enforcement measures COVID-19 - Follow-up to the general discussion of the bill n. 1721 - Law of European delegation 2019 and related Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, n. 3, with reports on Italy's participation in the European Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (15 hours)]] The week from 19 to 23 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 27 October h. 16.30-20 - Follow-up to the discussion of the bill n. 1721 - European delegation law 2019 (final vote with the presence of the quorum) and related Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, n. 3, with reports on the participation of Italy in the European Union - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1686 and connected - Day victims of judicial errors - Drawing of law n. 835 - Lite temeraria - Drawing of law n. 812 - Defamation by press - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 29, at 15) Wednesday 28 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 29 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to the draft law No 1144 and related (Distack of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region), No 1686 and related (Day of victims of judicial errors), No 835 (Lite temeraria) and No 812 (Defamation by press) must be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday 23 October. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1721 (Law of European Delegation 2019) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 3 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 3' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FI-BP 44' PD 35' Mixed 32' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u33	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the League Group, we propose an amendment to the timetable established at the Conference of Leaders, namely that the motion of no confidence against Mr Azzolina, as requested at the previous meeting, should also be scheduled for the week from 26 October onwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u34	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to include in the week from 27 to 29 October the discussion of the motion of no confidence to Minister Azzolina, made by Senator Romeo. It's not approved. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u35	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1970. I call Senator Vitali to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u36	Mr President, representatives of the Government, after this morning's news, the last thing I wanted to do was to explain a preliminary constitutionality. I feel like a guy who got hit by a truck. But we also have duties and I believe that this also means respecting the example and teaching that Jole Santelli leaves us. Decree-Law No 125 of 2020 contains certain measures which are the re-edition of measures already adopted before: the operational continuity of the Covid alert system; the extension of the time limits for new Cassa Integrazione treatments, ordinary allowance and supplementary allowance by way of derogation; the implementation of the European Directive incorporating Sars Covid-19 into the list of biological agents that can infect humans; the ultra-activity of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 September 2020. However, an element contained in the Decree-Law concerning the extension of the state of emergency until 31 January 2021 is salient. Among the novelties, there is an obligation to always carry protective devices and to use them when it is not possible to maintain safety distances. On the State-Regions relationship it is established that they cannot intervene in a less rigid manner on the norms previewed from the provision. However, what is perplexing to us is the repetition of the use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers which, besides not being subjected to the scrutiny of Parliament - as we have said so many times, specifying it also in the other preliminary rulings and in many parliamentary debates - do not even have the scrutiny of the President of the Republic and, therefore, cannot have an ex post verification by the Constitutional Court. It is not appropriate, nor constitutionally legitimate, that the requests for the extension of the state of emergency, moreover in unprecedented ways compared to those adopted by other European countries, are authorized by the Council of Ministers to limit the freedoms of citizens with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. It seems to us that the state of emergency has become the shield for forced acts, even contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. A serious and authoritative government must be able to manage an emerging situation, such as the one we are experiencing, with ordinary instruments, especially when this situation was expected, predictable and known already from January 2020; nothing new. We have the feeling that the excessive use of urgent decrees, rather than being justified by the need to deal with contingent emergencies, the result of the health emergency that we are experiencing, is the result of a twisted political strategy aimed at marginalizing oppositions and Parliament. The opposition is not allowed to intervene, to interrogate, to modify and to improve the measures and to mortify Parliament, now destined only to suffer the choices of the Commission, with the unbridled recourse to the vote of confidence. Not to mention - and this is also a subject raised several times in this House - that we have transformed a perfect bicameralism into a forced monocameralism and we have achieved it - you have achieved it - without even changing the Constitution. Mr President, you will allow me to make a statement on what happened yesterday. After the vote on the budget deviation, we saw a triumph, as if we had participated in a sporting event that ended in a positive way: there were those who had won and those who had lost. It seems to me that there was little to celebrate, because the majority has done exactly its duty: it has shown itself to be a majority in this Parliament and whoever is a majority has to prove it by numbers, no more, no less. It's an ordinary business. I want to make a little note of controversy, always respecting the roles: I believe that yesterday the majority, more than having done the interests of the Italians, did the interests of their own political part, because, aware of being a real minority in the country, has postponed sine give the confrontation with the electorate; a confrontation that sooner or later there will be and will come. A modest intervention in favour of the Forces of Order and the Fire Department is not enough to make this decree-law digestible and compatible with Article 70 of the Constitution. We believe that, instead of continuing with the decree of urgency, the Government and the majority must focus on the need to hesitate over 200 implementing decrees that in fact immobilize and freeze the rules that you yourself have implemented. [[Applause]] I believe that, rather than proceeding with the decrees-laws, this Government should think about getting the Cassa Integrazione to those 300,000 workers who are still waiting for it, since from your speeches and your statements it emerges the principle that no one will be left behind. But 300,000 workers are still waiting for the Integration Fund. This government should be concerned with reducing the tax burden, which is not 42%, as was felt in yesterday's debate: an economic survey has established that today in Italy the tax burden is well of 48 percent. I believe that a serious government must, above all, give adequate motivation to the younger generations, to whom, since now, you have given only public debt, without horizons, programmes or futures. For this reason, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of measure No 1970. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u37	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u40	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, it is a difficult day for me and for all of us to debate this question and, therefore, it seems really complicated and even disrespectful. But it is our job and we must move forward, remembering the determination of Jole Santelli. The question referred for a preliminary ruling under Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure appears, in our opinion, to be pretentious and, in fact, contrary to the legislative process carried out in recent months, to all the measures that have taken to combat the epidemiological emergency. The Decree-Law No 125 of 2020, in fact, introduces a legal novel in Decree-Law No 19 of this year, which is a bit the legal framework in which all subsequent measures have been incorporated, starting from the much-declaimed decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. With the decree-law under consideration, it extends the state of emergency to January 2021 and, consequently, extends all the deadlines that would have coincided with the end of the previous state of emergency. An element is introduced that will characterize the current phase of combating epidemiological emergencies, which is the obligation to always have respiratory protection devices. Basically, this decree does not introduce new legal elements, but extends as a legal principle the effects of Decree-Law No 19, with the element of novelty I have spoken of, along with other contents within the decree itself, starting from the question concerning the Immuni App as regards the possibility that it has a functionality also across borders. In my opinion, this shows the substance of the reasoning that leads us to reject and not to agree with the question referred for a preliminary ruling. The legal framework that Decree-Law No 19 provides, in fact, in the legal order also allows a legal coverage of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. Let us remember the phase prior to the approval of Decree-Law No. 19, in which we, as Gruppo Italia Viva, expressed some doubts regarding the excessive use of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. At that time we challenged the way in which the emergency was managed, which was too far removed from a relationship with Parliament. Precisely by virtue of this, Decree-Law No. 19 came subsequently redefined the legal context within which to place all the necessary interventions to manage the epidemiological emergency, starting from all the possible actions that Article 2 of that Decree relates, starting from the restriction of personal freedoms with regard to movement - for example - which is what most strikes and is to be protected from the constitutional point of view. It is precisely that decree that determines the legal framework with respect to the Constitution and its Article 16, which says that the restriction of personal freedom of movement is possible only by virtue of an intervention having force of law. That principle holds together all subsequent measures. I therefore believe that the legal framework underlying emergency management and, in particular, the use of the President-in-Office's decrees is fully in place. Decree-Law No 19, in fact, is and is only extended in its effects. Another thing could be the relationship between government and Parliament. I believe, however, that that same decree-law introduced the government's duty to relate to Parliament. It is true that that decree says that this can happen even after the decree is issued and, however, we have had proof of a constant presence of the Government in these weeks. I forget the times when the Minister of Health Roberto Speranza came - it was many - to dialogue with Parliament regarding the ongoing initiatives of the Government to deal with the emergency, especially at the same time as the decrees of the President of the Council, as happened in the last week with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 15 October. I therefore believe that, from the point of view of the legislative order, or rather of respect for constitutional principles, there is nothing to object to. On the other hand, a discussion and a political-parliamentary debate can be opened - not only after the approval of the decree at our examination but in general - on the issue of the rapidity of the discussion of decrees which, in fact, having been presented in an emergency condition, need rapid approval and often, containing the framework within which the subsequent decree of the President of the Council is inserted, of such an approval as, as launched by the Council of Ministers. This is a general issue, concerning the functioning of our legislative system, which needs to be addressed. We say this every time, since March we have raised the problem of de facto monocameralism, but this issue is not related to the decree in our examination because it concerns an overall problem relating to the functioning of the legislative system of our country. A consideration of this nature is necessary but is not relevant to the possibility of requesting a postponement of the treatment of the measure under discussion. On the basis of these considerations, we ask that the question be rejected and that the measure be examined.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u43	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I have listened carefully to Senator Vitali's speech, after having carefully read the reference and I feel that I am expressing a particular bitterness because today's debate cannot but be completely free from what is happening in these hours, from yesterday's data and from the evolution of the current epidemic that nails all of us to a very great sense of responsibility. It would therefore be difficult not to assess a preliminary ruling of this kind within this context as well. After this bitterness, however, that I sincerely express for the umpteenth occasion of lack of collaboration and for the lack of possibility to glimpse a path that leads the oppositions to give a contribution of merit, I do not understand the consistency of the presentation of a preliminary for reasons that would essentially deny the need to present it. I try to explain myself better: for months and weeks we have heard that we are in danger of mortifying the role of Parliament in the management of this epidemic, the role of the institutions and therefore the legislative process that accompanies the management of the epidemic itself, because all too often Parliament is opposed to the decisions and the abnormal use of the decrees of the President of the Council and the possibility of declaring the state of emergency. Meanwhile, with the provision on our examination - I tell Senator Vitali that he is too careful - we do not declare the state of emergency. The state of emergency states that the President of the Council of Ministers, after having been here, after listening to Parliament and after it, through the vote of certain resolutions, has given guidelines. Only subsequently, as has been the case in recent months, has the President-in-Office of the Council declared the state of emergency even in connection, of course, with the measures taken by Civil Protection. Therefore the declaration of the state of emergency is not the subject of the measure at our examination. As Senator Grimani said, with this measure we are extending measures already adopted by decree-law, which are a source of primary rank and which provide for the role of Parliament. We are continuing measures which have already been adopted in previous decrees, particularly in Decrees Nos. 19, 33 and 83 of 2020 that we now know are but that they refer to measures that contain substantially measures that allow the country to face the current period and also to modify the rules themselves. In fact, the measures are always temporary, without prejudice to the need to assess, from time to time, the evolution of the epidemic. That is why I said that today's debate cannot be separated from yesterday's data. I come back to the point that it seems to me to be really more important than the question referred for a preliminary ruling, also because, listening to that illustration of the same preliminary ruling, I did a little bit of work because it seemed to me objectively more like an intervention in general discussion than on the substance of the measure. In fact, you too find it difficult to justify a preliminary question which, if paradoxically accepted, would prejudice the discussion of the bill of conversion of this decree-law, with the consequence that we would silence Parliament. The decree-law, in fact, in this circumstance remains the only instrument available, unless we think of dealing with this phase with ordinary laws, with the times that Parliament and the bicameralism to which you rightly referred. The only tool we can use to try to keep up with the times and the emergency that imposes this epidemic objectively is the decree-law. Therefore, I would have expected exactly the opposite, namely that the opposition forces would demand that there be more things within the decree-law and not that Parliament even did not discuss it. A question for a preliminary ruling really does not justify itself; it is exactly the opposite of what you yourself are asking for, because at the time when you are asking for a greater protagonism than Parliament, it is exactly what we will be called upon to do in the next few hours, analyzing the full content of the measure, which - as has been said - extends certain measures, modifies others adopted previously and adopts new ones. I take the example of the Regions: we had first planned a close relation to the Regions; then we felt, at a time when the curve was falling, to widen the meshes of the Regions and also to take less restrictive measures; Today, in the face of a dramatic expansion of the epidemic, let us once again tell the regions that they cannot approve measures that broaden what we have planned, but only more restrictive ones. Same for the use of masks and respiratory protection measures: basically within the measure we add other devices aimed at combating this emergency and we ask to make them mandatory. Once again, we enrich Parliament's role: Parliament takes a decision on measures which, after declaring the state of emergency, paradoxically the President of the Council of Ministers could have adopted by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I really do not understand the ratio of a preliminary ruling of this kind, because you rightly said, at the end of your speech, that you hope that this measure will not be approved. At this point I would like to ask you and those who have submitted the question: if we were to approve the preliminary ruling, what would be in our parliamentary debate? How could Parliament play a leading role in this phase? How could he intervene in these rules? With what other instrument? For these reasons, I believe that the question of substance, but also in the ratio that inspired it, must be rejected absolutely, which is why I pre-announce the vote against by the Group of the Democratic Party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u46	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have put the question before us, because it is probably the only vote we will be able to vote on the measure, because unless in this case there is an exception to what has become the rule, the bill of conversion of the decree-law will be voted on with a vote of confidence, so that no amendments and no agendas can be voted on in this House. As a result, this is the only occasion when you can express yourself on the decree-law. That is why we have tabled the question for a preliminary ruling. There is one fundamental point - he said it very well in explaining the question referred to by Senator Vitali - contained in Article 5 of the decree-law: the Constitution is still being replaced, in particular the article in which it is said that in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency the Government (and it is the only case, that article clearly says) can adopt measures having the value of law in the ways that are illustrated, i.e. by the decree-law. There is no article in the Constitution that provides for such extraordinary and urgent cases, that Article 77 must also be ignored and therefore use the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, that is, an instrument that has always been used in the past for matters of detail or administrative, certainly not for measures that limit the freedoms of citizens (even if justified in the light of the Constitution, if adopted in accordance with the procedures provided for in the Constitution itself). In other words, the constituent fathers, who came from a five-year war, with a civil war and with the subsequent destructions of the war, who knew what was a case of extraordinary necessity and urgency, said that the best that can be done is to use the decree-law. Moreover the decree-law is very fast, it is just as fast as the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, because it enters into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal. Then you do not understand: either you invent a way that is sufficient for the President of the Council to think something, as in the times of absolute monarchies, and this is law, or there is nothing faster than the decree-law and, moreover, nothing more respectful of the Constitution. Instead, the President of the Council of Ministers issued the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, so, as Senator Vitali said, there is no visa and authorization of the President of the Republic and there is no passage in Parliament, with the guarantees provided. In fact, within five days, Parliament may immediately terminate the decree-law. In this case, however, there is none of these guarantees. Today this tool is used for the Covid-19, but tomorrow it can be used for another thing, for example for the economic emergency, caused by the damage of the Covid. If there are many people out of work and if there are many desperate people around, then you can further limit personal freedoms, using a decree again, which is unconstitutional for how it is written and for its nature. Colleagues, what you're doing is so dangerous. If you think that your government would never do such a thing - obviously you trust it, otherwise you should not vote for trust - remember, however, that governments change, but the procedures, once they have been used, are very easy to remain. What will you say to a future government, using the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, unduly, for an emergency that he alone decides? Would you say that that government cannot use the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers? [[Applause]] You will be the cause of that eventual and future abuse. There is a growing tendency here, in fact, to move the decisions elsewhere: it is no longer decided in Parliament, but it is decided in the Council of Ministers, on the contrary the President of the Council of Ministers decides on his own. You don't decide here, but you decide the Constitutional Court. You don't decide here, but the drug agency decides. It is not that we are attached to our role and we may feel defrauded if decisions are taken elsewhere, but there is a "small" problem: the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies are the only national bodies elected by the citizens. [[Applause]] Neither the Drug Agency nor the Constitutional Court nor the President of the Council of Ministers are elected by the citizens, even though they have the confidence of the Houses, under the Constitution. The Constitution, however, rather than being stewed, as you are trying to do, must be respected as a whole. Therefore, a government, although presided over by a person who did not even appear in the elections, is constitutionally legitimate, if the entire Constitution is respected and if laws are made either in Parliament or by decree-laws and not by decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, and if the government, at a time when it says there is an emergency, does not use it to include in the measures of the so-called emergency all sorts of measures, which have nothing to do with such an emergency. And it is legitimate, if one respects the Rules of Procedure of the House and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, that in Rules 148 and 153 he provides that questions are answered within fifteen days, for oral answers, and within twenty days, for written answers. In addition to ordinary questions on measures taken in the light of the emergency, I have been unanswered for weeks. I could give dozens of examples, but I will limit myself to two. First of all, there is the question of the famous purchase of 2,400,000 school benches: more than two months after the contracts have been perfected - we are aware of this from press releases - we do not know by whom they were bought and at what price. In the one contract of which we had confidence, which was then declared cancelled two days after the news came out, there were prices from three to seven times higher than those of the market, with purchase from a company that had no experience in the sector, nor had in the past a turnover minimally comparable to the purchase that was made. We still don't know anything about it: it's indecent. The government should be asking to come and answer. [[Applause]] But after two months, we still don't know anything. Nor is there an answer to the question concerning one of the many provisions inserted for reasons of extraordinary necessity and urgency which happens, in changing the rules of residence tax, to remove the proceedings against a person linked by family or cohabitation with the President of the Council: we are talking about the father of her who is notoriously the partner of the President of the Council, who has been freed from a recent accusation that could cost him up to ten years and six months of imprisonment. The question asks whether the President of the Council was aware of this and whether he was aware of the situation of this person in any way related to him. There was no answer. [[Applause]] Note that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate also provide for the government to declare that it cannot answer, stating its reasons and justifying: this did not happen either. If you do not respect the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, if you do not respect Article 77 of the Constitution, it is the whole that does not work. Dear colleague Valente, you have used a logical argument by asking why, if we want the role of Parliament, we ask that this decree-law not be discussed. We ask this because this decree-law is in the logic of moving the decisions elsewhere, in the face of Article 70 of the Constitution, according to which the laws are made here in Parliament and Article 77, according to which, if there is extraordinary necessity and urgency, the Government adopts a decree-law that passes from the President of the Republic immediately to Parliament and not from a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on which we cannot intervene. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u49	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the extension of the state of epidemiological emergency from Covid 19 until 31 January 2021, with the adoption of all possible measures for the containment of the spread of the epidemic, stems, in my opinion, from an objective necessity: the progressive realization of conditions actually in rapid negative progression, with an increase at an accelerated rate of ever new outbreaks, now spread throughout the country. With the opening of all activities after lockdown this was almost predictable. Unfortunately, in different situations, the lack of civic sense of some and the lack of responsibility towards the community have created the conditions facilitating, if not determining, the resumption of the spread of the virus. As is scientifically proven, there are no other ways to stop the contagiousness and development of new outbreaks, except the means of individual and collective protection and social distancing. We do not have innate immunity to the coronavirus; we will have to acquire it naturally, with contact with the wild virus (often and fortunately, without or with few clinical manifestations), or artificially, through attenuated viral strains or fractions of them, i.e. by the administration of the vaccine able to immunize us and produce protective antibodies in such a way as to block the development of the virus and its deleterious pathogenic effects. SARS-Cov-2 is included in the list of biological agents capable of causing infectious diseases in humans, with all the epidemiological consequences that this entails. The situation is difficult and complex in its multiform facets. Our health organisation, with the non-secondary role played by the regions in the area of health, with their large decision-making autonomy and specific competences, has also often hindered and led to discrepancies with the measures taken at central level and delayed their implementation. The measure under consideration reiterates the prohibition for the regions to adopt measures less restrictive than those adopted at national level, providing for... president. Excuse me, Senator Mautone. Colleagues, I recall that assembly is prohibited, especially at the entrance of the House. After the numbers we have heard today, even in this House, I believe that the first example should come from the parliamentary assemblies. Please, Senator Mautone. MAUTON (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. The measure under consideration reiterates the prohibition for the regions to adopt measures less restrictive than those adopted at national level, providing the only possibility of extensive and even more restrictive rules, in relation to particular local critical situations potentially relevant from the epidemiological point of view. Despite the many difficulties and problems that the pandemic has suddenly catapulted on the world, one cannot fail to recognize, objectively, the decision-making and the balance of the choices taken to counter the Covid-19. Although some may seem particularly rigid and limiting to some individual freedoms, these choices, together with the sense of responsibility of the vast majority of Italians who have confidently joined the preventive measures adopted to date (the exceptions are in the eyes of all), have allowed to withstand the violent impact of the pandemic better than other European countries such as France, Spain and Great Britain, and worlds like the United States, always seen and considered as virtuous health models to imitate and extol. All this, despite the mistakes that can be corrected and the avoidable deficiencies that have occurred in any case. On the other hand, one truth is certain: those who do not work or decide cannot incur mistakes. If Italy is below the average in other countries in the sad classification of the number of infections, there must be a reason behind it. Surely the measures taken and their effective application have played a positive and decisive role, as has rightly been recognised by the World Health Organization in our country. However, all this could not be achieved without the spirit of sacrifice, professionalism, skills, dedication and availability of all health workers who, with self-denial, courage and sometimes even the sacrifice of their lives, have made possible a true human miracle. On the issue of virulence and the spread of contagions, one cannot be reassured or reassured by the fact that others are worse off than we are. It is necessary to be proudly Italian, not to lower your guard and to have confidence in the work of those who so far have earned this trust and gained it in the field. The adherence of all of us to prevention programmes and measures, leaving aside defeatism in itself or the bodily ostracism of some, will allow us to look to the future, all together, with realistic and not utopian confidence. The road is still long, full of difficulties and unfortunately it will still see other innocent victims, but it is the right one, despite being studded with measures that someone can judge exaggerated (but actually commensurate with the gravity of the moment). In exceptional situations, responses must also be ready, clear, firm and decisive. Let us take our future back, our destiny back into our hands. In view of all the considerations made, the Movimento 5 Stars will vote against the proposed preliminary ruling. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u50	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators, referring to the bill n. 1970. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u51	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law No 1721 and documents LXXXVI, No 3, and LXXXVII, No 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u52	Mr President, after months of work and serious political confrontation, we are here talking about the law of a European delegation. Having been the rapporteur of the European delegation law last year, I would like to renew to the Undersecretary - who will then speak with the Minister - a recommendation that I made to his predecessor at the time. I believe that it is appropriate, given the importance of the measure under discussion, for the law of European delegation to be split, to deal with one part every six months. In fact, there are many articles to be dealt with, however, of such importance as to act on everyday life, for which I believe it is a suggestion that can be implemented, precisely because we want to work well. Not that we have not worked well in this bill; indeed, we have worked very well, but we could put it on schedule and we can start talking about this work. I was saying it's hard to analyze 20 articles quickly and furiously. It takes time. Here were 20 articles, ranging from communications, copyright, environment, agriculture, animal welfare, economy and banks. It is precisely at the time of the amendment that we have had disagreements with the majority. It's normal, just because everyone has their own ideas and carries out their own themes. A divergence on all: we did not agree on the prohibition of the use and disposal of certain plastics (the famous glasses). I would not like to bore this House by reminding us that the latter have saved us in the sad moments of lockdown, but I think we must teach people how to use plastics properly and not force them to dispose of them immediately. If I may, however, make a constructive criticism, which I had already made in the Commission, of the rapporteur and which the rapporteur had also accepted. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Pittella, for his helpfulness, because he was very good at these passages. This law of European delegation lacks a whole part relating to post-Covid-19 and lockdown, to the repercussions on the economic, productive, health and social fabric. [[Applause]] I hope that in the second reading in the House there will be the will to add a whole series of articles that go in this direction, because we cannot ignore anything and the political class of our country must not turn to the other side, but take on the dramatic implications that the pandemic has left and which are before everyone's eyes. I would therefore ask you, please, to standardise those policy lines which we will go to approve and to standardise the law of European delegation, also on the basis of the tragedy we have experienced. I wanted to address the Minister, but I would like to address the Undersecretary, who has always been present at this stage of work. You know very well that, when I have to discuss, I have never had any problems and, indeed, I have always been very direct. Personally, I can tell you that this time you surprised me, because you did things the way they were meant to be. There has been a long part of the hearings, there has been a long part of the amendment, where there has finally been a great deal of discussion and debate on the issues. There have been votes and the possibility, at last, of discussing the issues that have been put on the table. I must admit that the majority also accepted so many of our amendments, and I thank you for that, precisely because there has been a great deal of sharing. Let me give you a recommendation: use this working method all that comes into Parliament's classrooms, because it is perhaps the right method of working. [[Applause]] Already the fact that we do not ask for confidence in this measure and that, at last, there will be a sound vote, seems to me to be a good hope to go in this direction. This, among other things, is the first measure of some importance, since the birth of the Conte bis Government, which is finally being voted in the Chamber. I would like to end by thanking Mr Agea, on behalf of myself and the whole of the sport and recreational fisheries sector, for the work he has done in the Commission, giving me the opportunity, of course, together with the rapporteur, to discuss the amendments I have put on the table. I thank you because this sector is never considered by anyone, it is always put in a corner, because, unfortunately, as I have said several times, the fish do not speak and give no signal. Thank you on behalf of the whole industry. The practice of catch and release, of fishing tourism, and a serious revolution in the world of sport fishing and the fight against poaching, of which I have taken on several times, are always cornerstones in my agenda and I hope that they will also become one on the agenda of those who are governing us. I therefore believe that everything that is going to improve even a small part of this path that we have in mind and that we want to continue is a great goal to offer to the whole community and to the people who work daily, and I thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u53	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of European delegation 2019 that we are going to approve consists of 20 articles containing delegation provisions concerning the transposition into national legislation of 33 European directives, included in Annex A, as well as adaptation to 12 European regulations. It also contains specific guiding principles and criteria for the exercise of the delegation of the 11 Directives. The articles of the law in question concern fundamental matters for the functioning of the State administration in relation to European laws. Very important topics such as the provision of audiovisual media services, copyright, digital services, changes to the VAT system and exchanges between Member States, the electronic communications code (fundamental argument), the energy market, contracts, credit institutions and many other issues are regulated. However, with reference to the issues of close interest to the 9th Commission, I would first like to point out the objectives identified by the Government as part of the negotiations for the establishment of the multiannual financial framework of the European Union 2021-2027. Efforts are aimed in particular at preventing further cuts in the common agricultural policy (CAP), because cuts are planned to do so. It is therefore the Government's intention to defend the funds allocated to the national agricultural sector and to prevent a cut in such an important and strategic sector for our national economy, also opposing the continuation of the mechanism of the so-called external convergence of direct payments to farmers, which rewards only the extension of the farm, without taking into account important aspects such as the quality of the crops, the intensity of the investments made, the employment generated by the agricultural sector and the costs of the land and the productive factors. It is also expected that during 2020 regulations can be defined and approved; therefore, the Government at this stage will pay the utmost attention to protecting national peculiarities in key issues such as safeguarding farmers' incomes, the generational turnover in the agricultural sector, support for the agricultural sectors in difficulty (which are currently various), but in a context of attention to the environmental sustainability of agricultural activity, regulatory simplification, reducing administrative costs for farmers and public administrations. The Government is also committed to dealing with the dispute with the European Commission on milk levies in Italy and will contribute to the work of completing the European regulatory framework on organic farming (another fundamental topic), which will enter into force on 1 January 2021, with the aim of ensuring effective and harmonised controls in Europe, including with regard to imports from third countries, which we are particularly sensitive to. The protection of Italian geographical indications (also a very important subject) will continue to be a priority in the European and international context, in order to ensure that our excellences are increasingly positioned on the market, but above all protected from fraud, while on the front of the rules on unfair practices along the agri-food chain the directive will be rapidly transposed - very important for the agriculture sector - n. 633 of 2019 to regulate the relations between companies in the agricultural and food chain. Unfair commercial practices are those that differ widely from good conduct are in contrast to good faith and fairness and are unilaterally imposed by a partner - generally the strongest - on the counterpart, almost always the weakest (I have to think of the small producer or producer in general). The Government will also commit itself to defining the concept of food fraud, to making provision for categories and to codifying them at European Union level, and will also continue its efforts to protect Made in Italy and quality products, including through the full application and exploitation of international agreements, because it is clear that our products must be defended there. As far as the fisheries sector is concerned, efforts will continue to be made to implement the operational programme of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and to coordinate activities with intermediate bodies and regions. Among the policy lines that will characterize the coming years, it is also emphasized the commitment of the Government for the greater valorization of the aquaculture, to make changes to the conditions for the access to the first acquisition of a fishing vessel (important aspect to stimulate the generational turnover) and to introduce modernization measures aimed at improving the safety, the working conditions and the energy efficiency of the boats. There is therefore also a focus on the fisheries sector and on the enhancement and protection of the workers employed there. Agriculture, therefore, neglected for years, is now increasingly regarded as a strategic sector. Directive (EU) 2019/633, which we will transpose, is revolutionary and will change the structure of the supply chain, the bill of exchange that at this time always pays the weakest person in the supply chain itself. The strategic nature of agriculture has been confirmed in this period of pandemic by Covid, since all the operators in the sector have managed to guarantee food supply at such a difficult time, but it has also experienced and is suffering from a severe crisis, because it is not true that it has not had any repercussions. That is why, once again, I call on my Government to give the utmost attention and consideration to the allocation of funds from the recovery fund. I would also like to point out Article 5, which delegates the Government to identify the area of suitable areas and not to the installation of renewable plants (so there is great sensitivity to abandon the exploitation of fossil sources, to move more and more towards clean energy). However, I would like to briefly point out a critical issue, which consists in having identified in this delegation law, with its amendment to the 2012 law, the Central Inspectorate for Quality Protection and Counterfeit Control of Agri-food Products (ICQRF) as the law enforcement authority responsible for the supervision of Directive (EU) 2019/633. This could create shadowy areas, since there is already an institution to combat fraud: the Antitrust Authority. I therefore call on the Government to focus on this detail, because the ICQRF should be the body that is responsible for combating unfair commercial practices, but antitrust remains the law enforcement authority to all other practices: one for all, the double-down auction, on which the abolition of which is being examined a draft law in the Commission. They could therefore create discrasies and perhaps even shadowy areas, because there are cases that will then be difficult to identify in either category. It is for these reasons that I renew my call to the Government to focus on this detail, so that there is also a single institution in Italy that deals with fraud, which will then have to coordinate with all the others that will be identified in Europe, in order to combat unfair commercial practices. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u55	The joint general debate is closed. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.13 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u56	The session is resumed. The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Faraone has the right to explain the question 3-01980 on the Italian position on the seizure of two Sicilian vessels by Libya for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u57	Mr President, my son just wanted to earn a piece of bread. Mrs. Rosetta Ingargiola is the oldest of the group of mothers, daughters, sisters and wives who every morning meet at the port of Mazara del Vallo and who have been stopping for days in front of the political palaces in Rome, a lady to whom the sea had already taken away another son twenty-four years ago, Minister. For forty-five days, 18 sailors have been in the docks in Benghazi, waiting for a pseudo-trial to take place in five days, on October 20th. They captured them in the night between 1 and 2 September and seized their two Medinea and Antarctica vessels; they were the Libyan maritime authorities under Haftar. Minister, you do not even understand what they would be accused of: there are those who say of violation of territorial and economic competence in marine territory, for years unilaterally claimed by Libya, and there are those who say for the transport of drugs, totally unfounded accusation. Mr. Minister, we want to see if everything has been organized, as many sources of press say, to promote an exchange of prisoners. The difference is that the 18 people illegally arrested by the Libyan authorities were only doing their job, while the four of whom demand release the Libyans are scafists and delinquents sentenced to serve from twenty to thirty years of imprisonment for voluntary murder and smuggling of migrants. We all remember the massacre of Ferragosto, the 49 people who died asphyxiated in the holds of a boat from the fumes of the fuels. Minister, we are sure that you have done everything you can, but we are asking you for a supplementary effort. We owe it to justice, to the respect of our country and to families who cannot even talk to their loved ones and who rightly demand their immediate release. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u58	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u59	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Senator Pharaoh, bringing home the 18 seafarers of Mazara del Vallo is an absolute priority for the whole Government in its various articulations and under the coordination of Palazzo Chigi. This is a commitment that we make, as I said to the fishermen's family during the meeting with them on 29 September with the President-in-Office of the Council. The delicacy of the context requires us to pursue this objective without clamorous initiatives or propaganda but with that low profile that such events require. Even now, while we are discussing in this House, our diplomatic corps and external intelligence are at work. Let me say that there are many colleagues in this House who have held positions of government and can therefore understand how the low profile of Farnesina is a sign of responsibility and not a sign of reluctance. It is therefore an attitude aimed at protecting, first of all, the safety of our fishermen in this case. There is also a risk that the words we are going to say in this House today may have an effect on the work in progress. I am happy to answer your questions but I ask everyone to be aware of what I have just said. First of all, a condemnation of what happened was expressed against Benghazi who, as Senator Pharaoh said, neither the Italian Government nor the international community recognize as a legitimate Government. I assume that our fishermen are now in detention at the hands of a Libyan party not recognized by the Italian Government, neither by the European Union, nor by the United Nations, I would point out that since 2015 it has been specified on the institutional site of the Farnesina "Travel Safe" that Libya has unilaterally proclaimed this area of protection of fishing and therefore the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not recommend entry into these waters. In fact, on more than one occasion in these areas in the past there have been seizures, various interceptions of fishing vessels, detention of the crews of the latter and real attacks. We are working on the solution of this difficult case on two levels: one is represented, as mentioned, by the work of our diplomatic corps and by intelligence in contact in Libya with the different local interlocutors and the other by the intercourse with international partners who have a specific influence on Benghazi. So, at an international level, in addition to the telephone conversation with the French Foreign Minister Le Drian and the recent consultations in Rome with the Secretary of State Pompeo, I had telephone conversations with my emirates and Russian counterparts, the latter meeting yesterday in Moscow. In particular, I asked the emiratine and russian ministers to exercise their most direct influence and reassured me that they are working on this. The action of Farnesina is part of a choral effort of the institutions of our country coordinated with each other with the aim of achieving as soon as possible a positive outcome of the event. In conclusion, Mr President, as I reassured the fishermen's families, I would also like to reassure the interrogating senators: we monitor the health of fishermen on a daily basis. They are in good condition, are not detained in a prison but in an independent structure, have no contact with prisoners, are treated correctly and have received, through the embassy and the ambassador in Tripoli, medicines of usual use. As for the last question, our goal is to bring them home as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u60	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u61	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply. By fully sharing the attitude of those who say that we must move with discretion and with the highest level of low profile, I would add that this must of course also be accompanied by pragmatism and the desire to resolve the issue quickly because even if they are not in a prison and even if we know that they are in good health, however the fishermen are not at home, so we must quickly find a solution. I wanted to distinguish the behavior of those who keep the spotlight on the story and do so with all possible initiatives, even with this opportunity given to us by the Senate, to talk about this theme precisely to keep the light alive so as to push the institutions to always move with incisiveness, from those who, instead, use this story for propaganda. If we wanted to question you on this issue today, it is because we believe that the government should provide answers but, at the same time, because we want this to never be forgotten. I thank the Minister again for his reply. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u62	Senator Urso has the right to explain the question 3-01978 on the legitimacy of the exclusive economic zone imposed by Libya in relation to the recent seizure of Italian crews, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u63	Minister, this is the second question that deals with the same dramatic issue, namely the seizure of Italian fishermen and, in any case, of fishermen operating on an Italian fishing vessel. There will be three further questions, tabled by majority groups and opposition groups, showing that this is not a question of internal controversy but of a question that concerns the nation, and therefore Parliament as such, without any divisions of sorts. That the situation is extremely serious is demonstrated by the fact that forty-five days have passed since our fishermen were kidnapped by General Haftar, who nevertheless represents an important part of Libya. Minister, you said just now that you and the President-in-Office of the Council received the fishermen's family on 29 September when the seizure took place on 1 September. Twenty-nine days have passed before they were received by the Government and this happened after the members of the fishermen's families, mothers and wives, chained themselves day and night before Montecitorio. This says a lot, unfortunately, about the sensitivity in this phase of the Italian Government in the face of a drama involving the community of Mazara del Vallo, who lives in first person what happened today, as yesterday: today in a more serious way than yesterday. It is a question of foreign policy, not a question of intelligence: here it is not a question of paying a ransom or of freeing fellow countrymen in Mali or Somalia, kidnapped by gangs of Islamic terrorist kidnappers; here it is a question of fishermen kidnapped by those who believe to represent a territory, by a general, Haftar, who was received at Palazzo Chigi with the red carpet, because we, the Italian Government, received it a few months ago in Palazzo Chigi with the red carpet. It is a matter of foreign policy, because the seizure was likely to have occurred as retaliation after his mission to Libya. It is a question of foreign policy, precisely because we have a state organization from our counterpart. It is a matter of foreign policy, because it concerns a long-standing issue such as the recognition of international waters that Libya claims. That is why we call for strong foreign policy action to respect the Italian State and international law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u64	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Government, in my person, had met the families and the mayor of Mazara del Vallo two weeks before the meeting with the President of the Council and that the crisis unit came into contact with the families a few days after the seizure, as soon as the facts were established. So we didn't wait 15 or 30 days to meet them. I confirm once again that the entire Government is following with the utmost attention the story that has seen involved, among others, the eight Italian citizens and a double Italian-Tunisian citizen, part of the crew of the two vessels, Antarctica and Medinea, that in the night between 1st and 2nd September were intercepted and stopped by the self-proclaimed "government" of the East of the country and that they are currently in detention in Libya. The Libyan intervention, as I have already said, seems to have resulted from the alleged violation of the self-proclaimed protected fishing zone. The section of sea where fishing vessels were seized would be considered a military zone on the East-Libian side. Beyond the war situation that characterizes the Libyan scenario and the assessments of legal-international profile, in May 2019, the interministerial coordination committee for the safety of transport and infrastructure (Cocist), has declared the area of the zone of protection of Libyan fishing at high risk for all the ships flying the Italian flag, without distinction of typologies. Also in the past, on several occasions, the Farnesina, together with the General Command of the Coast Guard and the Ministry of Agricultural Policies has recommended to Italian fishing vessels to avoid the waters off the Libyan coast. In compliance with the decisions of the Cocist, the units of the Navy sailing in the area invite the Italian fishing units, located at that point, to leave them. The state of detention for someone who violates a self-proclaimed area - I mean - is unacceptable, but that remains a risky area - it is a message I send to all marine companies - just as it would be unacceptable if someone told us: If you free ours, we give you the Italians. This story, made even more complex by the fact that the territory, besides being at war, is fragmented and effectively controlled by different entities (as Senator Urso said) and ends up dealing with multiple subjects at the same time, highlights with renewed evidence the theme of the progressive territorialization of the Mediterranean. In recent years, an increasing number of states have proclaimed their own maritime areas in order to exercise exclusive sovereignty rights. With some of these we have established agreements - I am thinking of Algeria or Greece - but it is obviously impossible, at this stage, to provide for similar agreements with Libya, because it is a territory at war and disputed among several factions. Our efforts are now focused on bringing fishermen home, but we certainly need to work - and we are doing this - also to create the conditions that avoid the repetition of such painful episodes for our marine industry. I exclude any connection to my visits to Libya and then, in another of the answers, I will give more details. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u65	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the first part of his reply, where you pointed out that there is a specific directive to our fishing fleet that is considered an area at risk. If that area is at risk, then it is absolutely necessary to prevent our vessels from reaching it, even if it is an extremely important area for us, from an economic point of view. However, in any case, our fishing vessels must be protected, given that we have a significant presence in the area of Italian military vessels, which participate precisely in the patrol that the European Union has determined, in order to prevent passages of ships in that area, for example to supply arms to the contenders. We therefore wonder why our fleet does not intervene, even to stop those who supply arms to the contenders, in particular General Haftar, as we wonder why it does not intervene when the Italian fishing vessels, however legitimately are there. Finally, the consideration that I think is more important: we believe that Italy cannot succumb to any blackmail. We cannot put at all on the same footing and we cannot accept in any way that four criminals, condemned not only for smuggling migrants, but for the murder of 49 migrants, can be released, or obtain better conditions in prison, in exchange for the release of our fishing vessels. The action must be done exclusively in the field of foreign policy, without any barter of any kind, because in front of us we have no Islamic terrorists, who hide in the jungle or deserts, but we have the one who claims the state legitimacy, against whom we can act on several aspects, including military policy, and not only diplomatic policy, together with the European Union. That is why we cannot be satisfied and we ask that the Italian Government and Parliament express themselves through your voice, the voice of Italy, which in this case certainly cannot be trampled on by a bandit like Haftar.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u67	Very well colleagues, we have seen: you can also store them. If there are senators Quaestors in this House, I would kindly ask you to remove them. Our banner is always good to see, but it is not accepted in this House. Thank you. Senator De Bonis has the power to explain the question 3-01972 on the initiatives for the liberation of the fishermen of Mazara del Vallo kidnapped in Libya, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third question on this subject. As we know, two Mazara del Vallo vessels were seized on the evening of 1 September last by General Haftar's military and the 18 crew members are still stuck in Libya. Among the fishermen detained there are also the captain of the fishing vessel Anna madre, of Mazara del Vallo and the first officer of Natalino, of Pozzallo, who on the evening of the encirclement had managed to reverse the course. Shipowners have been challenged by the presence of their vessels within 72 miles, which Libya, since 2005, unilaterally claims as national waters, under the Montego Bay Convention, which gives the right to extend its competence to 200 miles. Last week I met the wives and family members of these citizens, who demonstrated in front of Montecitorio and who are still there today, day and night, without receiving concrete answers, feeling abandoned by the Government, who seems to have forgotten that there are Italian citizens stuck in a country at war. These family members have not even been able to hear the voices of fishermen on the phone, who are awaiting trial and risk a sentence of up to thirty years. This kidnapping is seen from several quarters as a retaliation, fueled by an unusual request made by the military of General Haftar, that is, an exchange of prisoners to free the 18 fishermen. The proposal would cover four Libyan prisoners in Italy, sentenced to thirty years in prison by the court of appeal of the court of Catania, on the charge of being scafists and jailers of the massacre of August that in 2015 led to the death of 49 migrants who traveled on board one of the many boats left from the Libyan coasts. On this hypothesis there is no confirmation from the Farnesina, but in mid-September the family of the four Libyan prisoners demonstrated in Benghazi to ask for their extradition. In this case, therefore, there is the concern that these people become goods of political exchange for the liberation of the scafisti. There is a path to diplomacy, of course, but before that there is a moral question of humanity that the Government cannot ignore. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in addition to having not yet given an assignment to lawyers for the defense of our fellow citizens, seems unable to give any details on their health conditions and the time of their release, as far as I have been personally told by the family members, who also informed me that some of the fishermen regularly take drugs, that there is the risk they are not administered because of the Libyan laws that prohibit it. Despite Farnesina's constant reassurances, family members are still unable to make contact. I therefore ask you, Minister, what initiatives your Ministry intends to take in order to obtain as soon as possible the release of these seafarers kidnapped and held captive in Libya.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u69	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u70	Mr President, I would like to reassure you once again about the health conditions of fishermen and that they have been given all the medicines they need: I want to repeat this once again and I can tell you, for the level of detail with which we are concerned about their health, that we also know what they ate yesterday. I say this because we are following the case with the utmost attention. I add that we are working in silence, but in a responsible silence and working in silence does not mean not working, indeed. I would like to draw attention to cases that are obviously not comparable, but we have never issued roboating or detailed statements before the liberation of Father Maccalli, Silvia Romano or Luca Tacchetto. We work silently, on track, and thanks to this work the Farnesina, intelligence and government all, in the last year, have brought home seven of our fellow countrymen. [[Applause]] To date, all the Italians we unfortunately had abroad have returned. The case of fishing vessels is different because, as Senator Urso said before, we are not in front of our fellow countrymen in the hands of terrorists, but in the hands of self-proclaimed Libyan forces that we do not recognize. To bring our fellow citizens home, we are focusing all our efforts both on the dialogue and confrontation between our agencies and Libyan actors and on the level of the phone calls and meetings I have had with the major governments around the world that have influence over that area. I have read that, since our emiratini friends are also dealing with mediation, the government has no weight: but who activated our dear friends? They're all helping us out right now to try to bring the fishermen home. It is a choral work; there have been several meetings, which does not mean they have been the only moment of contact with families: families have a direct channel with the crisis unity of the Farnesina that can hear when they want to have all the information that the Ministry can give. I think it is important at this moment that we all hang around our fellow countrymen detained in Benghazi, avoiding easy political speculation but pursuing together the only objective that counts: to return them as soon as possible to the affection of their loved ones. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u71	I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u72	Mr President, Minister, ladies Rosaria Giacalone, Cristina Amabilino and Jemmail Insaf, who are camping in front of Montecitorio, ask for a very simple thing, as they said a few hours ago: they want a sure proof that their seafarers are still alive (a photo, a video, a phone call); the possibility to understand if it is not a whole set-up, because they fear that, as for the Maròs, this story can last for more than eight years.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u73	Senator Papatheu has the power to explain the question 3-01979 on the circumstances of the seizure of Italian seafarers in Libya and the conditions for their release, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u74	Mr President, Minister, today, as the Forza Italia Group (but as a whole Parliament), we are very much tried because we have lost a colleague of whom you may not have known because you did not make any comments at the beginning of this sitting. I want to tell you one thing: we are tired of his words, because they are the same ones he was saying when he was campaigning, saying that, once he entered the palaces, he would open them - this palace like everyone else - like cans of tuna. It turns out that she likes tuna and he's stuck there. You must take note of your inadequacy, linked to a fact first of all chronological of your young age, because you do not have the experience and above all you cannot even have the authority of people of clear fame that you instead should have chosen if you loved this country...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u75	Senator Papatheu, I invite you to ask the questions. His considerations are not inherent in the question time. PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Salvini himself resigned so as not to be an accomplice to these crimes that are carried out every day. You, Minister, speak and say so many fine words, but you are not aware of this news and not even the family members, who are nailed before Montecitorio night and day, under the wind and the rain. None of them got a video call. You should take a plane and show up there with your Premier Count and address the matter to know when they will be released. In fact, I guarantee you that this is the first time in history (you are young and perhaps you do not know) that you spend all this time without fishermen returning to their homes. There's no point in you talking about days, because it's not about days. History tells us - we can read it - that Berlusconi called Gaddafi and in three days came the solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u76	[[Comments.]] That Berlusconi, whom you have always criticized and against whom you campaigned, was able because he was authoritative. Not because maybe he's better than you, but just because he's authoritative. You, however, despite not being a minister, are, in my opinion, very lacking. I ask you when these fishermen will return home and, above all, when you take a plane and come there, pretending to make a video call and watching with your own eyes what is happening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u77	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u78	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that, as soon as I heard the news of the death of the Governor of Calabria this morning, I expressed my public solidarity and my condolences to the family. I wanted to say it. [[Applause]] Then I'd like to say something else. Obviously I cannot judge myself on my own competence, but if I am yet another Minister of Foreign Affairs who is dealing with Libya it is because some government has bombed it (and it is not this Government). [[Applause]] I believe that the destabilisation of Libya was one of the biggest mistakes this country has ever made, especially because the day before it called Gaddafi and the next day allowed the bombing in Libya. [[Applause]] As Minister of Foreign Affairs I cannot tell you today the day when fishermen will return, but I can tell you that, just as we have worked for a year (thanks to our great intelligence apparatus, our diplomats and all the branches and joints of the state) for others, we will work every day to bring our fishermen home. These Italian citizens must return to their families as soon as possible, and I can assure you that every time - even when the families of some of them have reported to us the problem of medicines - we have started immediately; every time we have had some feeling about their state of safety we have since become aware of it. That's what a government does when it's working to get them home. I don't want to make inappropriate comparisons, but at least in this case we know where they are and how they are. [[Applause.]] In other cases, in fact - which have nothing to do with this - for months we didn't even know where they were and, when we knew they were alive, we couldn't even tell the parents. This is what we do like Farnesina. You can attack me, but leave the diplomatic corps and intelligence alone in the work they're doing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u79	Senator Giammanco has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u80	Minister, thank you for your reply, but in view of the scale of the matter, we sincerely expected more. His words are of circumstance. The reserve on diplomatic negotiations - allow me - cannot and must not be an alibi in order not to give more update on the situation of our fellow countrymen. We can't accept that. Minister, you owe the families of these fishermen, whom I personally met, more concrete, more pragmatic answers. After a month and a half, the situation still appears in a stalemate, despite the fact that the graduates of other countries have also been involved - as you said -. This confirms the fact that we have now lost our influence in the Mediterranean, and it is before everyone's eyes. We do not think it is by chance that this happened just 24 hours after his visit to Libya and his subsequent declarations of satisfaction. The seizure of our fishermen is only yet another demonstration of how weak, ambiguous and visionless this Commission's foreign policy is. I repeat, yes: during the Berlusconi Government, exactly ten years ago, a similar incident took place and the fishermen were released in a few days. Other times, you will say. I say to you: other leaders! I remind you that Berlusconi was the only international leader who opposed Gaddafi's deposition. [[applause]] , as opposed to the bombing of Libya because it had understood, before all of you, the consequences of the destabilisation of Libya and what would happen afterwards. I hope that the fishermen of Mazara del Vallo will be able to return home soon, but you know well, Minister, that the day after their release the risk that other fishermen in the Libyan waters may have problems will resume. I therefore ask you to put this issue in Europe and to promote an international agreement with Libya at least on fisheries in the Mediterranean, Minister. Our marines must be protected and fishermen must work safely.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u81	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u82	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Minister, know that we will continue to keep our attention high so that the spotlight is not turned off on this matter. We cannot allow our citizens to be blackmailed or bartered, to be said to be... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u83	Senator, you've finished your time. Immediately after the two senators have taken up their position in this House, Senator Iwobi has the right to explain the question 3-01975 on the repetition of illegitimate seizures of Italian boats off Libya for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u84	Mr President, Minister, on 1 September 18 seafarers from Mazara del Vallo were kidnapped by members of the Libyan army who responded to General Haftar, while they were on a fishing trip about 38 nautical miles north of the coast of Cyrenaica. After the stop, the fishermen were brought to Benghazi aboard some dinghy. Their two vessels have also been kidnapped by General Haftar's militias, and this history is well known, Minister, we know it. The whole House is questioning you today. What I would like to stress here is one particular point: according to important international investigations, the Haftar militias demand in exchange the release of four Libyan citizens sentenced by the court of Catania to thirty years in prison for human trafficking, that traffic that our party has been fighting for a very long time. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a paradox: an actor on the ground, Haftar, with his militias not recognized by any international body, blackmails our country and does so on the skin of Italian and foreign citizens kidnapped. And our government seems immobile. It has been about two months, and this is the example of the failed Italian and European foreign policy on Libya. The Italian political will to seek at all costs a solution for Libya in a multilateral context to what has led us? It has led us, by necessity of things, to have to speak with everyone, various countries and militias, even with those who have strategic interests opposed to ours in Libya. This way of doing, Minister, that behind the diplomacy of dialogue with all conceals in reality a complete lack of vision and decision-making capacity, as a result has completely brought us out of the picture from the Mediterranean and North Africa.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u85	You have to finish, Senator Iwobi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u86	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall now end, Mr President. We don't count anything anymore, of course. How long can we go on like this? How is it possible that in the Mediterranean, where for five years now there has been a European military mission, gangs and militias not recognized by any international body can afford to kidnap fishing vessels of a European country? Minister, the League for Salvini Premier has no intention of speculating on such a delicate issue, which concerns above all freedom and respect for human dignity, but of calling to... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u87	Thank you, Senator Iwobi. You have a set time, I said it from the beginning; let the Minister answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u88	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u89	Mr President, first of all, with regard to what has happened in the past, I would like to tell you that this government, like the previous government, has already dealt with similar issues. Since the beginning of my mandate, I have been on a mission to Libya four times, last on 1 September. With regard to my most recent mission and speculations about an alleged link with the abduction of fishermen, I would like to mention, among others, the following incidents that have occurred in the past off the coast of Libya. The most recent ones concern the fishing vessels Matteo Mazzarino and Aphrodite Peach, seized on October 9, 2018 and then released. Then there is the case of the Tramontana vessel, stopped on July 23, 2019 off of Misrata and then released with the payment of a fine, thanks to the intervention of our embassy in Tripoli. Analogous is the case the Greek fishing vessel, approached on 6 September 2019 off Benghazi whose seizure was prevented by the prompt intervention of our Navy. These facts clearly demonstrate the danger of the area, at the basis of the advice of the Farnesina, but above all the fact that we have already dealt with it; working and bringing home the result in silence, we will show once again that we Italians make them go home. [[Applause]] I heard, among other things, that the Farnesina is silent. The maximum reserve is required in situations of this kind. We can't risk compromising the work we're doing. [[Applause.]] Someone calls for more muscular attitudes. It would take little to be hard; as Minister, I could scream to the Italian and Libyan media, but on the contrary, I would risk making things worse and tearing a canvas that must necessarily be woven with patience and responsibly in silence. At the moment, I believe we need rationality, caution and determination, but above all unity: if we are united as political forces, in fact, those who are working to bring back the fishermen are stronger in the dialogue and negotiation they are carrying out. [[Applause.]] To the families of these people goes all my closeness, as we have always done with the families of all Italian citizens who were forced abroad. At the same time, however, there is all the sensitive information that we obviously have and that - I don't have to tell people here who, in the past, have been part of Governments - serves to achieve the result of bringing them home. I really want to hang around the fishermen's families and wish all those who are working hard to bring them home as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u90	I give the floor to Senator Iwobi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u91	Mr President, Minister, I repeat the fact that the League has absolutely no intention of speculating on such a delicate issue, which is primarily about freedom and human dignity. We're talking about kidnapped people, which we have no news of (even their families are waiting for them). I repeat another fact: if Italy had had a proper foreign policy, we would not have reached this point, this seizure. [[Applause.]] Thank you, Minister, but I would like to say one more thing, which is probably not clear: for several years now, the presence of the United States of America in the Mediterranean has failed. If Italy renounces to exercise its role of Mediterranean power, this sea, which for centuries has been and is a crossroads of commerce, risks entering into a situation of complete anarchy. This harms everyone: our fishermen, our military and the security of Europe, but above all of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u92	Senator Ferrara has the right to explain the question 3-01976 on the outcome of the recent mission of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Russia, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u93	Minister, thank you for your willingness to be here today: only yesterday you were Moscow to co-chair the Italian-Russian Council of Industrial and Financial Economic Cooperation and to meet your counterpart Lavrov. His presence here today testifies to the great attention of his Ministry towards Parliament, other than the puerile exploitations felt and seen before. [[Applause.]] Minister, I would also like to thank the Russian Federation for the support we received during the most intense phase of the crisis from Covid-19. Beyond the differences on some international issues, we will never forget Moscow's prompt help just when we needed it the most. [[Applause.]] Italy traditionally maintains a proactive dialogue with the Russian Federation on issues of greater bilateral and multilateral interest, but always balancing these relations with full respect for international law and the founding values of our country and our Republican Constitutional Charter. The strategic interest in maintaining a constructive dialogue with Moscow aims to strengthen a stable collaboration on regional and global challenges that need to be addressed together: I am thinking of the fight against terrorism, energy dynamics, the resolution of frozen conflicts, the digital challenge and cooperation in the field of security and arms control. Trade between the two countries remains a key guide on which to mark bilateral relations with Moscow. Despite having recorded a decrease in trade in the first half of 2020, also due to the emergency Covid, Italy confirms fifth supplier of the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, the sanctions resulting from the Ukrainian crisis continue to be an important obstacle for our companies exporting to Russia. His mission, Minister, took place in a particularly delicate situation, particularly in the light of the Navalny case, the crisis in Belarus and the precarious situation in Nagorno-Karabakh. The attempted poisoning of Navalny has affected Italian and European public opinion, which calls for a light on this serious violation of human rights and international law. I therefore ask you what are the messages you have sent to your Russian interlocutors in relation to the dossier of primary interest to Italy in terms of human rights, such as the Navalny case, in particular the hoped-for commitment of the Moscow authorities to ascertain the truth and the crisis in Belarus, which is of growing concern; and finally, what are other relevant contents addressed during your visit to Moscow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u94	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u95	First of all, as Senator Ferrara said, yesterday I presided over the Italian-Russian Council of Economic, Industrial and Financial Cooperation, formed that deals with all bilateral collaborations, from the economy to space to culture, in fact we also signed new cultural collaborations and in the meeting with the Minister of Industry Denis Manturov we addressed various open issues, with particular attention to the interests of Italian companies in Russia and Russian companies in Italy. Yesterday I obviously had a long meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov. We discussed the main crises, particularly those in which Moscow plays a significant role (we are talking about Libya, Belarus and Nagorno-Karabakh). I have returned, of course, to raise the question of the attempted poisoning of the political opponent Navalny. I had already dealt with the case with Lavrov on the phone a month ago and since then our government has urged Moscow to desist from minimizing what happened and to promote a serious and credible inquiry into this disturbing affair. In recent days, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, following independent analysis of Navalny's biological samples, has confirmed the use of a Novichok-type nerve agent. In the European Union, we began to discuss a rapid reaction that we approved at the Foreign Affairs Council last Monday. These are individual restrictive measures against Russian subjects considered to be involved in poisoning. Yesterday to Minister Lavrov I reiterated that such an event cannot be without consequences, constituting a violation both of international law on chemical weapons and, more generally, of respect for human rights. Italy does not want to give up dialogue and cooperation with Russia on issues of bilateral interest, as well as on regional and global issues. My presence in Moscow was the most obvious testimony, the day after the decision of the European Union. However, on the Navalny case I made it clear that we support the unity and cohesion of the European Union and expect a change of course from Moscow. We must all make every effort to avoid deepening the political distance, but also the values between Europe and the Russian Federation. On the other issue of Belarus, Italy expresses concern at the brutal repression of peaceful demonstrators and solidarity with the Belarusian people and calls for the release of political prisoners and shares the lack of democratic legitimacy of Lukashenko, which has been sanctioned at EU level. We do not want to trigger a geopolitical competition between the European Union and Russia. Indeed, I have stressed to my fellow Foreign Minister the need for Moscow to use its influence to stop repression and create the premises for an inclusive political process. On the Nagorno-Karabakh I recognized the balanced and constructive approach so far followed by Russia. As members of the Minsk Group and in the light of our strategic interests, we remain willing to contribute to the efforts to resume negotiations on the three co-chairs Russia, the United States and France. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u96	Senator Ferrara has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your timely response and for your international commitment to the defence of human rights and democratic spirit, in demanding from Moscow an in-depth inquiry into the Navalny case, as well as a decisive intervention to resolve the Belarusian crisis. I am sure that Italy will maintain a dialogue and collaborative approach with Russia in the name of the special relationship between our two countries and the role that Italy plays in the new multipolar world. Italy has perhaps understood better than other European partners the renewed multilateral context in which to act as an actor of peace, harmony and effective cooperation between the parties. You, Minister, are very keenly pursuing this vision of international relations and I believe that your words today show once again how Italy is capable of guaranteeing our economic and political interests in full respect of our values and liberal and democratic principles. I am therefore fully satisfied with your reply. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u98	Senator Biti has the right to explain the question 3-01977 on support for the sports sector and on the conclusion of the current competitions, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u99	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to be here this afternoon, an opportunity that we as a Democratic Party have taken on board because we believe that the whole sports system is essential for our country. We believe it is fundamental from the point of view of the growth and training of many children, young people, young people and adults, for social and cultural life, for health control and for the economic impact that the sector has in our country. We think this is important today too. Yes, it is today, in this very serious crisis. We know that there is a pandemic and it may seem difficult to think about the world of sport as well. We believe, however, that at this very moment we must give an important signal to the sector. Minister, as you know, because you are doing so, the world of sport expects concrete answers from us and a constant presence to warn us of our support. The crisis is strong for the whole sports system that is done by amateurs, amateurs and, of course, professionals. We are convinced that it is a complex system that is together, just together, because there is no champion born if there are no children who start practicing any discipline. Children who see the great champion are moved to become great champions and so the federations and societies of any discipline do not become great if, in turn, they do not have the little ones who gradually make a replacement. For these reasons we believe that the sector needs a great deal of attention at the moment. Therefore, although already in the decree cure Italy, in the decree throwing again and in the decree August much has been done, we ask, Minister, what are the means by which you and your Ministry intend to support in this moment of crisis especially the amateurs and societies of the disciplines most in difficulty, in order to make them restart after the emergency. I would also like to know whether he believes that the protocols used at the moment are correct, whether they can be revised and whether they can also bring to the bottom the championships at every level, the tournaments and the events that affect the sports world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u100	The Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, Mr Spadafora, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u101	Mr President, I fully agree with the complex analysis of the Senator and, as has been mentioned, I can confirm that we, since the first measure, the so-called Italian care, have put resources in the world of sport that may never have been before. We have obviously done so because of the pandemic, but this also becomes an opportunity for many sporting realities to be able to improve their commitment and their work. I would like to remind you that not only have we given EUR 370 million for the allowance to sports workers, but we have made EUR 150 million available, which almost 50% has already been paid out, and the other part will certainly also be made available. In fact, as the situation evolves, we also try to finalise this grant on the basis of the needs that arise. For example, many sports associations and clubs have complained that they no longer have access to school gyms, which are the place where, in many situations where there is no sports facility, it is possible to exercise a basic activity for boys and girls. We, in agreement with the Ministry of Education, University and Research and Minister Azzolina, will send a circular in the next few days to all school leaders to invite them to grant gyms, but above all we will make available to amateur sports associations (ASD) and amateur sports societies (SSDs) resources, at a loss, for the hygiene of gyms and all the spaces that will be used by sports clubs. This is the real reason why schools have not been made available at this time. We have allocated EUR 90 million for the tax credit for sponsorships; this measure invests above all a high middle-middle range of sports clubs. So let us really collect the complexity of the demands, as the questioner represented, from the world of basic sport to the world of the highest professional level. Of course, these are the measures that we have taken at the emergency level in the first phase. Meanwhile, I have already sent the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Gualtieri, my proposals for the draft budget law that we are going to discuss at the next Council of Ministers. I am sure that, even in the next budgetary manoeuvre, very important measures will be envisaged for the world of sport. As far as competitions are concerned, I think that, at the moment, the protocols in force, both for Serie A and for sports associations and clubs, are valid. The important thing is that they are respected. If there is someone who does not respect them, at every level, higher or lower, obviously we create the cases that we read in the chronicle. I hope therefore that the protocols can be respected; if they will be and if the general situation of the country will allow it, of course, as Minister of Sport, I hope that all the championships, of every order and grade, can continue to take place in the best way, in the interest of the players, of all the people who work in this world, but also of all the sports enthusiasts in Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u102	I give the floor to Senator Biti to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u103	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, which has been very detailed and very precise on some parts, especially the economic parts, which I also mentioned. Much has already been done, and I believe that we must continue to work, as you have already announced, on the budgetary law: we will be careful on this front. Some resources that have been identified in the emergency; we believe that a structural, even economic, important facility must be given to the world of sport, from basic sport, to amateurs, to professionalism, in all disciplines that, I repeat, are really important for the formation of many, from children to older, in our country. We ask you - and the Democratic Party in this is with you, Minister - to make your voice heard, to be present and constantly close to all societies and this world, which at this moment is really suffering, and so much, for the impossibility of organizing many demonstrations. It is not only hope, Minister. I think we should not just hope that the protocols will work. Of course, those who do not respect them always make mistakes; that is what we all say and we are convinced of it. But there is not only hope, because we must ensure that the development of sport is guaranteed, as far as possible at this time. We ask for this and the Democratic Party is there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u104	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u107	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every day more and more schools require a video conferencing platform, for example for meetings between parents and teachers or for digital teaching, to protect the data and privacy of users, whether students, teachers or family members. As we know, the platforms of the supranational web giants do not guarantee such protection. The European Court of Justice has invalidated privacy shield, i.e. the widespread agreement with which large organizations and multinationals could, until now, legitimise the transfer of personal data between Europe and the United States. In fact, American legislation does not restrict the scope and duration of the collection, nor does it guarantee foreign nationals any right vis-à-vis the US authorities acting before the courts. The General Regulation on the Protection of European Data provides, instead, that the collection and processing are explicitly defined and limited in scope and time and that the data subject can claim, request correction or deletion of the data and oppose their processing. Children's data are also at risk. The Privacy Supervisor intervened in the Committee on Childhood and Adolescence and made it clear that the Minister of Education was given the attention of the need for a breakthrough in the use of platforms in general, considering that it was more prudent to use the electronic register than the platform of a multinational of which nothing is known. It would, therefore, be better in the present, now that the school is in full swing, to give clear indications that schools should make use of the electronic register as often as possible. The Guarantor has reiterated, therefore, as the real and most important theme is that of an Italian public platform that takes charge of putting together resources and competences. It is good that Italy has its own infrastructure, hopefully within the framework of European cooperation. President, ladies and gentlemen, compared to previous times, today we have a new possibility: among the strategic challenges that the Italian National Recovery and Resilience Plan will face is the one that concerns the digital transition. In this sense, Next generationEU resources can really be used. We already know that the Minister of Education is moving in this direction, but we need to achieve the objective of providing a service adapted to the needs, even now in the time of the pandemic, in line with the state-of-the-art technologies that fully protect personal data. This guarantee is one of the pillars on which a serious policy for digital and technological sovereignty must be based, which Italy must implement and integrate wisely in the context of European reality. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u108	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-266.ana.u109	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 27 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.02 p.m.
